ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U1	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! Happy Question Time Watchers! Prime Minister! Members of the government! We're gonna start the 12th May briefing, and first we're gonna run a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U2	32 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 69 are missing. Now I'm going to introduce Question Time. The following members of the Government of the Republic participate in the Question Hour: Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus and Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Taavi Aas. I have, uh, good colleagues, a request. In view of the fact that we have eight registered questions, we are going to make one clarification and one supplementary question for each question. Two minutes to ask questions, three minutes to answer questions. Indrek Saar, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U3	Thank you, Mr President. I have a concern on which I would like to clarify what position we will take in the future. In the context of Question Time, before Question Time and before sessions, we have repeatedly mentioned that if we have urgent questions, there could also be an urgent response, especially when we have had a very special situation for a long time and still have a health emergency, which the Prime Minister has described as essentially an emergency situation. We had a wish when we encountered vaccination interruptions and other problems directly affecting the health crisis, so that the Prime Minister would come before us and we could talk about this separately, not only in Question Time, because Question Time is a limited format, a time-limited format. The Prime Minister promised that enquiries would be a good format for answering these questions. The Social Democrats have submitted two enquiries that directly affect the health crisis and have been time-critical, on 21 April and 22 April. We have now learned that the Prime Minister will come to answer them on 7 June. How can we conclude an agreement between Parliament and the Head of Government in such a way that we can understand in the same way what is urgent and that we can even understand each other in the same way? I can't tell in any way that 21. The request for information on vaccination confusion submitted on 30 April, as well as the request for information on the White Paper, would not be directly relevant to the health crisis. If they come back a month and a half later, I say time is being abused.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U4	Thank you for this question. I'll answer you. A member of your group also asked about this last week. I think you are talking about your group's enquiries concerning coronavir, two of them, as I recall. I've been in contact with the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister has said that he's really coming to meet them as soon as his timetable allows. He does this, of course, within the limits of the regulation of the law, he won't come back later. So it's that sometimes you just can't answer questions in the quickest way, but they're definitely coming back to answer them. After all, the Prime Minister is in Question Time every Wednesday, where these issues can be dealt with, and can also be dealt with through a written question. So I think we're doing the best we can. On the subject of the White Paper, the Prime Minister has visited the Riigikogu and introduced it to all political groups, as far as I know. Indrek Saar, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U5	Are you saying, then, that as Head of the Riigikogu you realise that the Prime Minister has not had the opportunity to find it on Monday to come before Parliament and answer these questions in a month and a half?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U6	As Chairman of the Riigikogu and as a member of the Board of the Riigikogu [I assure] that we will forward your requests to the State Chancellery, from there they will pass on to the ministries. I understand your resentment. This is certainly a very important and topical issue. But I cannot say that the Prime Minister has not addressed this issue in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. By replying to questions, I have also been in contact with the Prime Minister in response to [your] inquiries. He's told me when he can come. He was unable to come these days[ as you requested]. I sent your political partner's request last week to come to these two enquiries earlier, but he was unable to come these days]. That's exactly the kind of information I can get through here today.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U7	Now, let's get to the first question. It has been submitted by a member of the Riigikogu Tarmo Kruusimäe, he is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas and the subject is the decisions of the Defence Forces. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U8	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good answer! On 9 May this year, a message came that our military staff and communications battalion were asked at the end of the city permit to return to the army in civilian clothes, as the movement in the form of the Defence Forces near Filter Road allows for various interpretations. I have three questions, and they're like this. First of all, is it true that military servants of the Defence Forces' headquarters and communications battalion were ordered on 9 May to wear civilian clothes instead of a uniform in the Defence Forces, and who issued such an order? Secondly, when such an order was given, what was meant by the malicious use of the Estonian Defence Forces form? And thirdly, when such an order was given, do you understand the symbolic value it holds in a situation where Georgi is waved with ribbons of Georgi that the Estonian state authorities prohibit their defence forces from wearing the uniform and suggest that they sneak into the troops in private clothes? Isn't this a retreat from the Republic of Estonia? I would remind you that you, as Prime Minister, also have a responsibility for the broad-soil management of national defence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U9	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U10	Thank you. Have you asked the former Minister of Defence, who belongs to the ranks of the Fatherland? This arrangement, I understand, has been in place since 2008. Such an arrangement existed already when the Minister of Defence was from the ranks of the Fatherland, and these are the questions you can best ask him. The command of the Defence Forces has been established by the Order of the Defence Forces Act. The Defence Forces are under the sole command of the Commander of the Defence Forces, who is subordinate to the Minister responsible for this field. In so doing, the Minister responsible has no power of command over the Commander of the Defence Forces. The Commander of the Defence Forces has also explained this [order], but as I said, this has been the case since 2008. We know what happened in 2007, and as a result, as I have been described, it is based on the fact that the propaganda channels would not be able to take images for their propaganda that would give the wrong impression of the events that took place in Estonia on 9 May. But, yes, first of all, I suggest you turn to your groupmate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U11	Please, a more specific question, Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U12	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good answer! Of course, I have the opportunity to ask around, and I also have the opportunity to get various interpretations. But right now you are the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia and are responsible for broad-based national defence, and this question was addressed to you. We want your personal assessment as Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia. This year, 30 years have passed since regaining independence. This trend we see in our anniversary year, does it extend beyond the Defence Forces to the Defence League, perhaps to football fans, basketball fans, volleyball fans? Are there any other situations in which we should shamefully admit that we are citizens of the Republic of Estonia and respect our own flag colors?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U13	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U14	How did you come to this question with this design? You started by not wearing the uniform of the Defence Forces on 9 May because it was ordered by the Commander of the Defence Forces. And you finally got there so blue black and white shouldn't be used. There was absolutely no such thing. I would like to emphasise once again: this has been the case since 2008, even if your [party] was in the government, even if your [party] had a seat as Minister of Defence. The Commander of the Defence Forces is under the command of the Minister of Defence, but he is under the sole command of the Defence Forces. And indeed, the Prime Minister does not give orders as to how the Defence Forces should act. As far as I know, the Commander of the Defence Forces, Herem, has also said that this order from the Head of the Communications Battalion, not to transfer the form, was overstretched and that perhaps it should now be abandoned, even though it has been done since 2008. I believe that such discussions are taking place in the Defence Forces. Of course we all respect blue black and white, we all want to use it and be proud of it. That's exactly how it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U15	And now one more question. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Today's Question Time is about the decisions of the Defence Forces. In this very hall, the Commander of the Defence Forces has made such a statement that they intend to vaccinate in the future all conscripts who will serve. The same has been confirmed by the Minister of Defence, Mr Laanet. However, you have said that there is no compulsory vaccination in Estonia and that vaccination is based on the free will of every person. When the EKRE submitted a draft amending the Penal Code that would make the compulsory vaccination punishable, your minister, Tanel Kiik from the Centre Party, stated that they would not support it, the Ministry of Social Affairs does not support the introduction of such a section. Please tell us what reasons such decisions have been made, where we are talking at one point, that we are going to vaccinate soldiers, young soldiers who still have life ahead, and that we are talking to the other side of the mouth about the absence of a forced vaccination.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U17	Please, Kaja Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U18	Thank you. I believe everyone wants society to be open. To enable this, we want the infection not to spread from person to person and that if people do get that infection, they would not have the disease so badly that it would be burdensome for our medical system. When we think about situations where the infection spreads more and can spread across the country, we can see that these are precisely the kind of places where people have to get very close to each other and come in contact with people that they would otherwise not be associated with every day. The army is a place like this. The fact that the Commander of the Defence Forces has a desire to vaccinate conscripts and to achieve vaccination among them at a level that does not hinder the work of all conscripts or the entire army, I think it is only right, because if you have not been vaccinated and come into contact with a sick person, then you must remain isolated, everything must remain isolated. So this objective is certainly very correct. In saying this, I still stress that we do not have a compulsory vaccination, vaccination is voluntary. Those who do not want to be vaccinated will not be vaccinated. And that will continue to be the case. I don't understand your heroic problem, which you seem to be trying to solve with the other hand. There's no point in criminalizing a thing that doesn't exist. People are not subject to compulsory vaccination, everyone has the right to give up who does not want to vaccinate themselves. The reason we have low levels of vaccination in certain areas is that people there do not want to be vaccinated. If we had a forced vaccination, we'd have 100% coverage everywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U19	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U20	Let us move on to the second question. It has been presented by Indrek Saar, a member of the Riigikogu, answers Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, and the topic is to cut children's activities. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U21	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister! I must start with the subject on which I asked a procedural question at the beginning of Question Time, because it seems to me that not all the words you say can be taken as pure gold. When we were in opposition together, we even proposed a bill together so that, in the event of an emergency, the members of the government would have to answer questions within days, because this is very important in an urgent situation. As Prime Minister, you promised us here in the Riigikogu that questioning is a good way to quickly get answers to important questions. But now you're using a one-and-a-half-month delay to come up with such an inquiry. I do not think it is a very flexible way of using words, or it is a very flexible way of doing so. The same is true of the budgetary strategy adopted by your government, which has broken down both the priority wage groups and the commitments made to local governments and, in particular, children. We are talking about additional state funding for recreational and recreational education, which has brought tens of thousands of children who did not go there before. Look at the latest report made by the University of Tartu, which says that in 2018 there were more than 93000 children and in 2019 more than 113000 children. However, in 2018 this measure had already actually had an impact. In my opinion, the [budget strategy] is a word-breaking one. Tell me, who made you do this? I don't want to believe you made that choice yourself. Was it the Minister of Education or the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U22	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U23	Thank you. First of all, to answer questions. We are working on the legal framework agreed here in the Riigikogu, even more so, responses to enquiries are regulated even in the Constitution. § 140 of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure states that there are 20 days of sitting to reply to an inquiry. This is the legal framework that I am not breaking. I'll be answering within that time. Of course, I try to come as early as possible, but both my own schedule and the schedule of the Riigikogu set certain limits. But the important thing is that I certainly do not exceed the legal limits that are set for answering questions. Now the second question, which concerns support for local authorities. It is the responsibility of local authorities to organise an education of interest, it is not the responsibility of the state, but yes, the state has paid support to local authorities to organise an education of interest within the local authorities. As a collection, local authorities receive EUR 2.42 billion in revenue and it is up to each local authority to decide what it will do with this money. Local government revenues will also increase in the following years: 3.5% in 2023, 1.8% in 2024, and 3.5% in 2025. Coming specifically to this support for recreational education, which has so far been granted to local authorities, is EUR 14 million. And indeed, in the next RES, it's $7 million. Support for recreational education has been used in very different ways. There are some municipalities that have clearly directed this support to organising an education of interest and have put much more of it there themselves, as it has been a priority for this local government. And there are those municipalities where it is not considered such a high priority. There are also municipalities where the use of support has not helped to solve the problems that exist in education of interest.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U24	And here's a very specific question. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U25	Thank you. Your answer to the question of how to answer is legally correct, but we understand that in essence this is not the case. In a somewhat ironic way, it reminded me of the answer given by the previous Prime Minister in an article by the Estonian Express, which I happened to read this morning. When asked if the expenses he has made as Prime Minister at Stenbock's house were ethically justified, he replied in the same way that everything is legally correct, he has not broken any rules. The beauty is in the eye of the viewer. Unfortunately, it has to be said, yes, that the word of a politician is often very flexible. But I come back to further funding for recreational education and recreational activities. This is extra money, yes, local authorities contribute a great deal to [education and action of interest], but this extra money has brought tens of thousands of more children. This is what is meant for finding out why children do not enter an education of interest. [This money] has brought tens of thousands of children, and if half of them are taken away, the opportunities that have been created may be reduced by up to half. What do you say to those children who, from autumn onwards, are involved in the whole season and the activities are planned by season or academic year, and the new academic year can no longer go to their favourite circle, to deal with their favourite area of interest? This could be a transport problem for which money and opportunities are no longer available, or an inventory that is needed. What are you gonna tell these kids? What should they do, where should they turn?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U26	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U27	60% of the support for recreational education has gone to diversification and around 11% have gone to improve accessibility. It has been very, very different from region to region. If you say that something is changing from a children's point of view, how will it change from a children's point of view, when local authorities actually get more money and local authorities have to bear the obligation to organise and finance an interest education? If we also look at some examples, we can see that it has not always been done in relation to children. I bring the city of Tallinn, for example. In 2021, Tallinn received the largest share of the total amount of interest education from the state, or 9% of all this money. It is EUR 1,287 million. Tallinn finances municipal interest education with a total of 6.99 million euros. The city of Tallinn supports children in private interest education with EUR 200000. But where are the children? Children are [predominantly] in private interest education. 10000 children receive municipal-interest education and 20000 children receive private-interest education, which is not in fact supported by the local government. [This distribution of money] is not fair; it is not in the interests of children. But it must be in the child's best interest. In autumn, we will have local elections and then the voters will have the opportunity to express very clearly the wishes they have for the rulers. If there is pressure from the bottom that an education of interest is more important than anything else, then the local government leaders who organise an education of interest will certainly take it into account and put the money in the right place so that there is no inequality. The Ministry of Education and Research has also looked at how to share support between municipalities. For example, [more] municipalities with more needy families and where the problem is greater so that [granting support] is more targeted. On the other hand, [the consideration will be given to the type of interest education to be given more support. If the techniques, including robotics-related circles, are few and require more resources, then there should be more support for them, because the choirs and dance circles take place anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U28	And now one more question. Kalle Grünthal!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I need to start my question a little further away. All restrictions are known to be based on human testing, i.e. identification of an infection indicator. It is known that 35 to 40 cycles of reproduction are used in Estonia to identify a virus infected, although the WHO has already reported in January that there should be 26 cycles. But because of all this, society is now locked up, businesses cannot work because they are not allowed. Due to restrictions, commercial and catering establishments are locked from certain times, as if the virus knew the clock. Also, all kinds of gatherings have been completed, such as the Türi flower fair, the Maamess, the Võhandu kayak, although there should be no danger. The American Beauty car super-exhibition, where there are also people together, but in cars. And in this context, you basically also reduce the money allocated to children's activities so that children can no longer walk in circles that interest them. My vision now is that, in the context of all this, it is going to be over that you want to reduce and stop people's social interaction, and now, at the top of all, you want children to get used to going to school online and, in their case, so-called social communication to be stopped. Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U30	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U31	Thank you. Well, there was a lot of stuff going on here. Firstly, I would say that the restrictions are not based solely on an indicator of infection. We have a wide range of indicators and measures to take into account: firstly, the incidence of infection; secondly, the number of COVID-19 patients on controlled breathing; thirdly, the number of COVID-19 patients in hospital care; fourthly, the proportion of people whose infection is unknown; fifthly, the rate of positive tests; sixthly, the number of [infected] people on the whole hospital network and, fourthly, the number of deaths. There are very, very many indicators that we take into account. That's one. Secondly, last spring you were a member of the government department. A special situation was declared against all 16 infected people throughout Estonia, everything was banned, protests were not allowed, etc. It was in a situation where the infected were few. Yes, I admit that at the time, the disease was unknown to us, and it was fear of what would come. You went around in a plastic suit, your glasses on, your rubber gloves on, clearly you were very afraid of the virus. Today you are no longer afraid of this virus, and even in terms of restrictions, we have raised these meters much higher. Today we have 270 people in the hospital, 25 people in controlled breathing. We have so many of these people in the hospital. There were infected today, I could mess up, but in the last few days, there's been 200 a day. So in this sense we are in a completely different situation [than last spring]. But it's delicate ice, and it has to be taken into account. People's gatherings are currently allowed, they simply have to comply with dispersal requirements and there are limits. We base our decisions on what scientists say. There are activities at different risk of infection. We, too, want to overcome these restrictions, but we can do so gradually.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U32	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U33	Let us move on to the third question posed by the member of the Riigikogu, Kert Kingo. Prime Minister Kaja Kallas answers this, the subject is the functioning of the state. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U34	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! In April, the police used a disproportionate force against the peacefully minded people in Toompea and Vabaduse Square. There were Special Forces outside with special equipment, including service dogs. By this action and the subsequent justification of your actions and by lying about their backgrounds, you, the Minister of the Interior and the Director-General of the Police both violated the public's trust in the police, which was remarkably high before such aggressions took place. You justified the police's actions by claiming that the Defence Police Board's threat assessment contained a sentence: "Professors want to hinder the functioning of the state. " When you answered questions in Question Time last week, you lied that the police acted peacefully and only checked the wearing of masks and compliance with the 2 + 2 rule. Yet, there are a number of video recordings that show the aggressiveness of rapid - responseers toward people who sang and played the instrument. Please respond to how you managed to see the threat assessment of the Defence Police Department and what you understand under the expression "wanting to obstruct the functioning of the country." Give a concrete example of what obstructing the functioning of the state is all about.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U35	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U36	Thank you. You're seriously suggesting that the police were using a disproportionate force. I have not heard any complaints to the law enforcement authorities that anyone has been harmed during these demonstrations. These demonstrations did not have an organiser, there was no one the police could communicate with. I actually have a question for you: why are you undermining the credibility of the police? Why are you trying to make it look like the police aren't on the side of the Estonian people and the police don't want to ensure order? In this case, the police acted very peacefully, explained the situation, even when they were constantly provoked, even when policemen were personally attacked on social media, they started to attack on the ground. You can make videos of all kinds. We don't know what preceded the video that was made, and therefore it's not possible to judge from it. But in my opinion, the criterion of truth is whether complaints have been lodged and whether the law enforcement authorities or courts have found that the police have harmed someone during these demonstrations. I don't know about cases like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U37	And now please specify the question, Kert Kingo.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U38	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. You're still in the old direction. But the Special Security Oversight Commission has not been notified by the Defence Police Department of the threat that you have mentioned. On this basis, I dare say that, in addition to the Minister of the Interior and the Director General of the Police, you have just blatantly lied to the Riigikogu about the existence of a threat assessment and what is contained in it, and you have done so repeatedly. Today, too, a moment ago, you lied about police action. You sent police task forces against your people, and you lie about your people, because it is the Prime Minister who will take decisions and give orders to his ministers. What you're saying is that you didn't participate in the decision-making process is clearly wrong. If the Prime Minister is lying about the situation in the country, lying about the behaviour of his people, distorting facts and circumstances, then such a Prime Minister is not a reliable governor. My question is this: when will you start to act as an ethical politician and take on the political responsibility that you demanded from strong ministers while in opposition, and resign and show that you have a little sense of honor? Please try to stay on the subject in answer to the question and answer the question specifically.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U39	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U40	Thank you. A lot of accusations, but I still don't know what the problem is. Let me ask you again: did anyone get hurt during these demonstrations? Did they? If so, has there been a complaint to the law enforcement authorities? Has the court found that the police exceeded their authority and hurt anyone in controlling this demonstration? Are there such facts? No, it's not! What are you accusing the police of? I don't understand it. Now that you're talking about this threat assessment, of course I've been briefed on all the reasons why the police are making their decisions. But the Prime Minister doesn't give orders to the police, the police make decisions based on their own threat assessment. And that's exactly how they did it. Again, what's the real problem, what are you trying to blow up? Why are you trying to undermine the credibility of the Estonian police? Yes, we know that EKRE has long wanted to get rid of the head of the Police and Border Guard Board, and apparently this is one of the elements in the long line that your minister wanted to illegally fire the head of the Police and Border Guard Board. Now you probably want to do it with some other hands, but in my opinion it is not reasonable or in the interests of the internal security of the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U41	And now one more question. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U42	[[Remote connection]] President-in-Office of the Council. Good Prime Minister! To be honest, shit like the previous questioner said still comes up with. Of course, it is particularly funny to hear the question of honor and lack of honor posed by a person who himself had to leave the ministry as a result of lying. But I think I understand what the problem is, why one party has blown up this issue very much, talking about some sort of police aggression and the use of force. They still had the hope that there would be some kind of confrontation on 9 May, and then the police would not dare to do anything because of all the nonsense and criticism, and then they could attack that [behaviour]. Well, that didn't work out. Unfortunately, yes, the subject of the Defence Forces uniform came up. This is, in fact, an example of how, in the end, people become uncertain about what can be done without politicians going crazy on Toompea's back and forth. But it wasn't my question, it was a comment. Here's the question. Good Prime Minister, we have vaccination passports in Estonia, but they cannot be used very much. I know that thoughts go back and forth, how and what. But I would like to ask you that you certainly have a good overview of what is happening elsewhere in Europe with these vaccination passports. Give an example from other countries of how the matter is resolved there. I know that in Denmark, you can go to the restaurant's indoors for dinner if you show me your vaccination pass, and people who have been sick or tested can do that. I know the Germans are going to start creating special rights or reducing restrictions on those who have a vaccination passport. But I would like to know a little about where Estonia is and where the rest of Europe is.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U43	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U44	Thank you. First of all, I would say to the comment that the police were really out the same way on 9 May. It was just the difference between these demonstrations on Toompea that the meetings of 9 May were registered. The police were able to communicate with the organisers, and I understand that the organisers cooperated with the police. Now to the question. Yeah, it's under discussion. The vaccination certificate, we don't call it a passport, is proof that you've been vaccinated. There are several levels. The first is what we agree at European level. This is who has been vaccinated, how long the vaccine will last and what vaccines we are considering. But the second is what the individual Member States are doing, and here, indeed, the behaviour is well - well different. Let me just give you a few examples. Indeed, Denmark has said that they allow, for example, hairdresser services or restaurants to be used to prove vaccination. You have to show the certificate and then you will be part of the service. However, the reference to Germany, as far as I know, is not quite correct. Germany has said that the vaccination certificate could be used when travelling and would exempt people from the isolation restriction. By the way, we have already been exempted from the isolation obligation for vaccinated and sick patients. So we already have it. Some Member States also said that they intend to use it for major events, so that only those who show a vaccination certificate can get there. But a representative from another country said that the problem in this case is that, if older people are now vaccinated first and foremost, younger people want to go to a rock concert. It's not quite collapsing. So these discussions must be held. I think that, as long as vaccination is not equally accessible to everyone due to a lack of vaccines, it should be very careful not to create a situation where people feel discriminated against. But if we have to live with this virus in the future, we need to come up with solutions to keep society more open. It would certainly be possible to do so more extensively by means of vaccination and also by certification of vaccination.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U45	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U46	Let's move on to question four. It is presented by Sven Sester, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by the Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus and the topic is the competitiveness of companies. Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of Finance! I would first like to ask you what brings together organisations such as the Logistics and Transit Association, the Estonian Association of International Car Carriers, the Estonian Farmers' Confederation, the Estonian Agricultural Chamber of Commerce, the Estonian Oil Association, EVEA, the Estonian Employers' Confederation. These are all organisations that represent their members, businesses, but they also have one thing in common: they have all approached Parliament, the government or you with a request to postpone any possible increase in the reduced excise duty on diesel to an earlier level. According to my information, the discussions in the government on the country's budget strategy are over today and you have taken the view that the [previous] rate will recover next year. You are not prepared to extend this [measure]. In the meantime, you pointed out, as a reason, that there was no need to hold discussions on this issue, as no further proposals had been received on this issue. In fact, at the beginning of the discussion of the country's budgetary strategy, the Isamaa Group proposed on 8 April to extend the use of the reduced rate for at least one year, until 30 April 2023. I would also say so much that the day before yesterday in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the proposal of the Isamaa Group was under discussion, and it was quite a pleasant surprise that your coalition partner, the Centre Party, supported the extension. Your party was the only one who opposed it in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Here's my question. Perhaps you could explain why you do not support an extension of the one-year excise duty reduction, especially given that this is about maintaining the competitiveness of Estonian companies. It must also be taken into account why [the extension is] desired, of course, because the corona crisis has not improved as quickly as we had hoped.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U48	Please, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U49	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for your question. It has to be said that although on several other issues the financial issues in the previous government may not have had too much precision, the preferential rate applied as a temporary crisis measure has been very precisely regulated by the previous government in the current law. The law sets the date on which this temporary crisis measure, as well as a number of temporary crisis measures, will expire in the spring of next year. Looking back at the discussions in Parliament at the time when this temporary distinction was introduced, one of your own political party's leading financial experts, Aivar Kokk, who was at the moment, if I am not mistaken, the Chairman of the Monetary Commission, defended the same draft and the same temporary measure, and provided Parliament with an early time frame and content frame for the whole sector, all of which have been based. His assessment, I assume, that the assessment of the coalition at that time was that, even if economic growth returns to 2%, the use of the temporary advantage at that time should be abandoned. This is something we have not considered reasonable with the current government, despite the fact that the new spring economic forecast says that growth will hopefully be 2.5% this year and that by the end of this year we will have reached the pre-crisis level of the economy. Nevertheless, yes, we do not consider it reasonable to bring forward what Aivar Koka said to be the case at the moment. The validity of this measure remains valid as it is clearly enshrined in the law. Of course, there is also a greater context for all this distinction during the crisis. Part of this context certainly concerns the revenue from the state budget. As you certainly know, last year's state budget received an excise tax of EUR 37.8 million less...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U50	Good answer, your time! I'm sorry, but your time is up!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U51	[[Remote connection]] ...and it was part of this influence. I'll finish the sentence. The budget for next year is expected to increase by EUR 30 million after its recovery. Thank you and I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U52	Thanks, let's go! Please specify the question, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of Finance! It's quite interesting to listen to you. I have seen that, in answer to the question of Prime Minister Tarmo Kruusimäe, I have first started to speak in such a way that you should ask your group, I understand, from the previous Minister of Defence. And you started the answer by asking Aivar Kokka. In this sense, I would like to try to be in today's day that changes are being made on the basis of the existing situation. When we did the two-year excise duty reduction, we did it with the knowledge we had at the time. Today we know that the corona crisis has not passed as quickly as we have expected. That's a problem. I think this is a problem for society as a whole. We are surrounded by an economic and health crisis. Consequently, we have proposed to extend the measure by one year, remaining at the level that is today, just one more year. It will not remain this way for the rest of its life; it is an additional measure to maintain the competitiveness of businesses. I have a specific question. We are now in a situation where your party is the only one who does not support this proposal, all other parties support it, including your coalition partner, who has said it both verbally through the press and through acts in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. My question to you is that, although the country's budget strategy has already been negotiated by today, this process is over, but there is going to be a state budget procedure, most likely for you in August-September, whether you are ready to discuss and bring to the table [proposal] that this additional one-year fall would be maintained. If you want, I will once again name you all those business organisations that think that this is necessary. They were not one, but among them are all those who are operating in Estonian business today. You and your party have been on top of business before. What's your opinion, coming back or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U54	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U55	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good questioner! First of all, do not quote me wrong, I have not advised anyone to turn to Aivar Koka, but I merely referred to what the Member who defended the draft at the time already announced to all the parties concerned during the discussions of the coalition. During the debate on the draft, it was announced that if economic growth returns to 2%, this temporary advantage as a crisis measure will also be reduced. Despite the fact that this time is now at hand, the forecast for this year is not 2%, but 2.5%, we have decided not to terminate this temporary measure before, as envisaged by the plan of Aivar Koka and the coalition at that time, but to continue it until the end of the legal deadline, i.e. the spring of next year. The fact that your listed organisations are standing up for their area of activity is what they have to do, that is perfectly understandable. And there is nothing unnatural about the fact that, if there is an incentive for one sector or another, of course, everyone would like to continue with the benefit for their sector. The longer the better. Not only in this example, but in other examples, there are those who would be happy to see that this benefit becomes permanent and permanent. But it is true that, as a result of this crisis relief, both the transport sector and the diesel sector have contributed less than others during the crisis, because, as has been said, last year, this change has led to a reduction in budgetary receipts of more than EUR 35 million. As regards the draft that you have tabled and its further progress, its further discussion, as a rather conservative and responsible political party in the past on financial issues, you certainly know that if additional expenditure is added to the budget, you must always show how you intend to cover them. Unfortunately, this was not done in your draft, so I look forward to suggestions. If EUR 30 million is less in the next budget, how and at what cost should the bonus be continued?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U56	And now one more question. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U57	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Minister of Finance! Since I have not seen you in the meantime, I would like to begin by thanking you and congratulating you for your good presentation of the draft resolution on the Monday Refund and the answers to all the questions. Very good work! But if we go further back in time, because Sven Sester was asking here, in principle, about the link between competitiveness and taxes, I remembered that if Sven himself was the Minister of Finance, the end of 2016 and 2017, the government wanted to introduce a very large amount of new taxes. I don't remember if any of them came true, or if it was just this kind of planning and then giving in to pressure and giving up the plan. At the time, we were talking about car tax, which is a bit related to today's topic, but we were also talking about sweet tax, bank tax, etc. I don't expect you to remember all these subjects, but maybe you do. If you remember, it's very good. But can you tell me if there are any taxes that would directly improve competitiveness? It's not like taxes aren't to improve competitiveness. Taxes are, in this sense, an essential pain for business, but they are also essential for the state to function. Or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U58	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U59	[[Remote connection]] Thanks to the questioner! I, too, thank Parliament very much for the dynamic Monday debate on the implementation of the recovery plan and the fact that Estonia will not become the backbone of the long-awaited crisis package in the European Union. During the crisis, speculating on some new taxes or throwing up new tax ideas is something that, I think, should in any case be avoided. The tax debate and the debate on the tax system are precisely in the view of how our tax system can support the competitiveness of the entire economic environment, what changes need to be made to the tax system, knowing the major concerns, such as the decline of the working-age population and the fact that a growing number of people will have to sustain an increasing share of both the social system and the health system over the next decades. I predict, I have done this before, that it will probably be one of the most violent debates in spring 2023. The Reform Party will certainly also come up with a comprehensive package that will provide answers to these questions. However, at the moment, our main problem with the tax system is that we have very high taxes on labour. This means that, in international competition too, the attractiveness that we have had in the past will fade. This is certainly a problem that needs to be resolved. I very much hope that in this tax debate we will not go back in any way to a simplified approach in which the whole debate will begin on how to add new taxes or get more and more money from taxpayers, but on the idea level and on the whole, there will be a debate on how to make the economic and tax system more competitive. The introduction of new taxes is certainly not a part of making the economic system more competitive.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U60	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U61	Let us move on to question five. It is presented by the member of the Riigikogu Heljo Pikhof and is answered by the Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus. The subject is pension policy and second pillar disbursements. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U62	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! As we could see from the April news on "Actual Camera," 37% of pensioners who collected money in the second pillar decided to terminate the contract and withdraw the money. To date, there are almost 8300 people who have entered into a pension contract with an insurer. By the end of March, more than 3,000 pensioners applied to terminate the agreement. According to Eesti Pank's economist Kaspar Oja, the number of leavers shows that pension insurance needs to change. The problem is payouts. I myself have repeatedly pointed this out in the Riigikogu, but it has remained for discussion. I fully understand the people who signed the pension contract. Let me give you a concrete example. The person has reached retirement age and entered into a contract for the payment of the second pillar. In 2011, it received EUR 50 per month from the second pillar and in 2021 it will still receive the same amount of EUR 50. This means that there hasn't been an increase in money over time. Today's laws may allow money to be raised in the fund, but the private sector has not done so. Some time ago our Riigikogu Group met representatives of Eesti Pank and I asked how to get out of the dead end. The answer was that this problem was solved by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Affairs. Here's the question: what are you going to change or do to make sure that the money paid out to old-age pensioners doesn't melt down in the second pillar over the years?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U63	Please, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U64	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Yes, this is certainly an important debate. There were probably among them, including those who have not necessarily reached retirement age, but who, at an earlier age, have decided to withdraw money from the second pillar, those who believe that they themselves are better able to invest. It would be good if those people who really use this withdrawable pension money as an investment rather than simply as a means of quick spending, as extra money, were more. It is certainly early to say what this final result will be. Today, people will continue to be able to rethink and submit a statement on their decision by, say, March at the latest in July, to withdraw and channel pension funds into consumption or otherwise spend them. I believe that there are people, too, who, after a little consideration, do not think that it is appropriate to spend what has been collected at the moment. As regards the behaviour of people who had already reached retirement age, 50567 people were entitled to the second pillar pension at the end of last year, and 39955 of those fifty and half thousand people had submitted a payment application. Thus, it can be said that the number of persons [requested] in relation to all those entitled to receive the payment increased to 79%. As regards the further improvement of the II pillar system, which certainly does not mean breaking up this pillar, these discussions are ahead. And I would rather say that reflection, both inside and outside Parliament, is certainly welcome, because the problem you are referring to is there and needs to be resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U65	And now for a more specific question, Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U66	Dear Minister, In fact, I did not talk about old-age pensioners, investors or those who are reaching retirement age. In fact, the question is, I repeat this example: if a person received some EUR 50 from the second pillar in 2011, the amount will be the same in 2021. And maybe in ten years, it'll still be 50 euros, and it'll only buy a few loafs of bread. It is still a duty on the shoulders of the Ministry of Finance that those people who collect into the second pillar or intend to join the second pillar would have a certain feeling that if they ever get paid out of this pillar, it will be beneficial for them. At present, it is known that Pillar I money is indexed and, as a rule, not always, the pension for Pillar I will increase by a few tens of euros. I would ask, however, what do you say to those old-age pensioners who have so far had the money of the second pillar unchanged and who will see that in the future it will still be unchanged so that they do not withdraw it? [What do you say] so that people have the confidence that if they hold money in the second pillar or intend to join this pillar, there will be some change in the distributions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U67	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U68	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. One example is very risky to comment on if you do not know in detail exactly where the investment was made and so on. I will refrain from commenting very thoroughly on this particular example without knowing the whole background. And the question always remains that if this money had not been invested in the second pillar, but had been kept somewhere without investment, what would be the value of that money in that case. It is likely that the value of this money would be significantly lower. How to provide investment advice and how to increase investment in the pension pillar is certainly not the responsibility of just one ministry. This is an issue that is also being bothered about outside the government and ministries, and it will certainly be resolved. In any case, a smart investment will significantly increase the value of money more than the failure to make such an investment. Investment risks and the specific choices to which to invest accurately must, of course, always be carefully considered each time, if necessary, ask for advice from those who work in this area on a daily basis and who are certainly able to give advice to any person who is hesitating at the moment. That's definitely what I'm suggesting.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U69	And now one more question, Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U70	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Minister of Finance! This second pillar has been quite spelled out that productivity has been low, and the fees have been high, and that the contract for exiting the pillar has been relatively inflexible. Much of this criticism can be accepted. But when I look at my second pillar pension fund, I have no reason to complain: growth has been very, very good. I don't think I'd have invested better myself, so maybe I would have, but now someone else has done it for me, and the rate of return has been very good. Now for payouts. If you withdraw the entire amount, you have to pay 20% of your income tax. If you are closer to your retirement age than five years, you will have to pay 10% of your income tax if you withdraw the entire amount from the second pillar. But my question is this: have you not made any sense, or has it not been discussed in the government, that it might develop this system in such a way as to motivate people to keep money longer in this system? As I said, the rate of return has actually been very good. One could be motivated, for example, if you have just reached retirement age, you will still pay 10% of your income tax, but five years later you will already pay 5% of your income tax, and at 75 you will not pay any income tax if you withdraw money from the second pillar. Could it be a motivational instrument or a change that could help people not actually rush to withdraw money from the second pillar now, to waste it and to discover at the age of 75 that there is no money at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U71	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U72	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I think that the introduction of income tax levels in one more place requires a very thorough analysis before it can be said whether or not this will best help to achieve the objective. The aim of the second pillar of the pension has still been that a person who reaches retirement age at one point would be better insured by old age if he had not invested in pension and collected money. Often, of course, there is a tendency to confuse a bit, which is the purpose of Pillar II. Its purpose is to collect for as long as a person reaches retirement age. So long to raise money so that by then additional support will still be provided for a beautiful small 1st pillar pension. I think that the biggest motivation for people is certainly when they think about their old age and compare their pension if they did not collect into the second pillar, and when they do. I do not think that those people who are not yet close to retirement age and who are already taking out the amount collected in the meantime have thought this step through and will probably find themselves in a very difficult situation after decades if they simply spend the money they have collected for retirement now. This is also the reason why I continue to say that the dismantling of the second pillar is perhaps a momentous, very short-term delusion for someone to imagine that living at the expense of the future is very nice, but in the long term it will not only bring problems to those people who spend money collected earlier for retirement but also to the country as a whole. If, in decades' time, we have tens of thousands of people of retirement age who come to demand a dignified and living pension for the reason that the second pillar has been spent decades ago, it will, in any case, become a state problem, and that is something that should be foreseen.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U73	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U74	Let's move on to question six. It is presented by Alar Laneman, member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Aas. The topic is the state of play and planned decisions regarding the financing of Pärnu's new bridge. Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U75	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question is rather such a anxious request. There are two bridges in the pärnu. The main load is on the Papiniidu Bridge, especially in the summer. Summer is the main time to earn income in Pärnu, especially in the current situation it is very important. One of the bus routes through the city is the busiest traffic in Estonia. The load will increase even further as Rail Baltic construction arrives there. The coalition currently operating in Pärnu, with the participation of the Centre Party, has been very operational and has planned the construction of a new, third bridge this year and has allocated EUR 10.6 million. The preparation of construction procurement is in progress. But help would be very welcome, and the city has come up with an idea that this help is possible. The City Government has submitted two applications to the Government of the Republic, [one submitted] in April last year to support bridge construction in the form of public investment support, and [the other in July]. In July, an investment request was submitted to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to participate in a European Union measure announced by the Ministry. MKM assessed the application as positive and already submitted a draft for approval to the Government of the Republic in November last year to grant an amount of EUR 8.7 million. Unfortunately, so far, mainly because of political parties that are not in the coalition in Pärnu, the Fatherland Union and the Reform Party are on hold. My question is, when do we expect a decision and what kind of a decision is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U76	Tavi Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U77	[[Remote connection]] Honourable Chairman! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner, thank you for your question. I consider this object to be very important myself. The resources we are talking about are the resources of the Cohesion Fund. The purpose of these instruments must be to improve mobility opportunities, with the aim of using them to develop either greener transport or public transport. The Pärnu project, as assessed by the Ministry, meets these requirements. We all know that Pärnu's old bridge is no longer in the best condition, and it is also overloaded with traffic. I think making a new bridge to Pärnu is absolutely inevitable. The old bridge could remain in the use of light road users in particular, and therefore mobility opportunities in the city of Pärnu would certainly improve. Indeed, more than 8.7 million euros were left of one object in Tallinn, which could be used to build Pärnu's new bridge. The Ministry has supported this project. However, political consensus has not been reached on decision-making. I very much hope that this decision will be made. I will continue my efforts to ensure that this decision is made and that this money is allocated to Pärnu. I still think it's necessary. It is very difficult for me to tell you the exact time today, but I think it is possible to find a solution by working with all the political forces.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U78	Thank you. I have a request that if you ask or answer and participate in teleworking, speak as far as possible towards the computer, because the quality of your voice is much better. Let's keep going. Specific question, Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U79	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I thank you for this answer and for the positive and optimistic notes in the answer. The very detailed knowledge of the situation of these bridges by the honourable Minister also adds to the assurance. However, we also hope, of course, that the political forces outside the government will understand Pärnu's importance, because there is not only an infrastructure issue here, but also a very clear regional policy effect. So thank you very much for the answer that gave hope and inspired optimism.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U80	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. At least I hope to be optimistic about this bridge with you. We must also take into account the fact that the resources for the period that the Cohesion Fund has ended are limited and today we are in a situation where we do not have an equivalent object on the Pärnu Bridge. So, due to the limited time resources that I said earlier, it is very difficult for me to tell you when an agreement can be reached, in fact, the limitation of time resources when using these resources will certainly set its own framework and I do not see the possibility that this dispute could continue for a very long time. Otherwise, we simply run the risk of having to repay these funds. Estonia has so far been a very good user of European Union funds, and I think it would be regrettable if we could not continue along the same path due to political differences.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U81	And now one more question. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U82	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. We all know that the Pärnu route, in its time called Via Baltica, is actually the bus route with the highest traffic load on our roads at all. What I'm asking is that we got some more information about the bridge, which doesn't quite guarantee that this bridge will come, but at least doesn't erase hope of the whole reconstruction of this route. We had on the agenda in the previous government the construction of a four-line section of the Flying Nurme and from there the construction of the Uulu section. Are these plans in place, or have there been any changes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U83	[[Remote connection]] I dare assure you that these plans are still in place. It must also be borne in mind that it will be very difficult to replace these paragraphs with another paragraph in the coming years, simply because the two sections you have mentioned will be completed with projects and preparatory work. I am very pleased that in 2020 and 2021 we have additional resources to prepare 2 + 2 road projects, i.e. not only for designing, but also for land acquisition, research, etc. These instruments provide the possibility that, at the earliest in 2023, the Buttercup section project will be at such a level of readiness that it will be possible to announce the procurement of road construction. The same is true of the Uulu section. Once again, I assure you that these projects are moving forward. Funding is also available for these projects. We know that the country's budget strategy in the area of road construction was not as generous as we hoped, but there are resources for these objects and they can be moved forward. The following items, of course, need to be agreed on how they will be financed. I, too, consider it important to build all three directions into safe 2+2 roads, and I will make sure that this process goes on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U84	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U85	Let's move on to question seven. The question is asked by Jevgeni Ossinovski, a member of the Riigikogu, who is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas and the topic is monetary policy choices. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U86	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I will continue last week on the issue of funding education. Unfortunately, the agreed country's budgetary strategy, in which your government's financial priorities are placed before us, does not bring any good things to education. The share of education funding in GDP falls from 6% to 5%. We know that teachers' pay is once again falling behind the Estonian average and that, in addition, the education of interest is also hit by a quite decent cut. In order to bring about a slightly longer perspective [I would recall] from 2013 onwards, the country has considered an early increase in teachers' pay to be important. I have been the pusher of these decisions at certain times and have also been ministers of other political parties. We almost reached the point that the minimum wage for teachers would be 100% of the average wage in Estonia and, as a result, the average wage for teachers would be 120% of the average wage in Estonia. But now this year there is a baranka: we say there is a crisis, it was not the right time to raise wages. But we will see that in the years to come, this average salary will begin to fall behind. And at the same time, we have said about underfunding higher education that wait, we will solve the issue of teachers' pay and then we will deal with the issue of underfunding higher education. Now, paradoxically, we have reached a situation where no additional funding for higher education is provided for and, at the same time, what we have achieved in terms of teachers' salaries is also falling behind. Could you explain a little about what the higher education sector and Estonian teachers could count on in the context of your government?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U87	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U88	Yeah, thanks! It is difficult to act in a situation where there is little money. Fortunately, European money comes to our aid in making certain investments. I agree with you that the aim has been to achieve the [average] pay of teachers at 120% of the average wage in Estonia. Today it is 102% and next year it will be 100% of the Estonian average. Well, he is a big problem. In the current national budget strategy, the increase in teachers' salaries was set at zero euros. Indeed, we made efforts to find money to raise teachers' salaries. I know 3% is very little, but it's still better than zero. In this respect, I agree that, when looking at teachers' secondary growth, we also need to look at the right pay conditions. If I look at the last few years, I can see that there may have been a lot of investment in houses, buildings. We have a lot of beautiful school buildings all over the country, which are often also architecturally very spectacular. But that is why we have had less money to invest in people. I think it has to change. That is why we have also withdrawn from this country's budget strategy or postponed some investment in schools precisely to use this money to raise teachers' salaries. As far as funding for higher education is concerned, this has been a problem for a long time and we know what is the source of this problem. We have agreed in the coalition agreement that we will analyse and look for ways to involve private money in higher education, precisely to overcome these problems. If the pay of teachers is one, but the pay of teachers, or those who teach teachers, is even lower, it is the same problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U89	And now the point to be clarified. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U90	Thank you. After all, in the last period, a great deal of euro money has gone mostly to investment in schools, and there has also been a large share of school networking, so that, indeed, more education money will go into pay money, which the government you run has also considered to be important. So surely not all these investments can be called useless. Rather, in the field of education, unlike in some other areas, they have, in my opinion, been mostly reasonable. But it's not the money that goes on a one-time basis to build a house that pays the teacher's salary. According to the budgetary logic, we know that teachers' wage increases are a fixed cost and that they need completely different sources to cover them. I understand, of course, there is nothing else to say that this is a big problem, but I think the faculty is waiting for what is the solution to this big problem. After all, it is a big or a small issue, not only in absolute terms, in the fact that the salary rises to EUR 40, but precisely in the level that we have wanted to keep, in order for teachers' pay to rise with the average wage, actually even faster than that, so that the teacher's profession becomes attractive to the future generation, young people would choose a teaching profession and we would find relief from the concern that we all see to it, the teacher's average age is very high and growing. If, now, the opposite signal is given that in the coming years teachers' salaries will fall behind again [Estonian average], we will actually lose much of the work we have done so far. So the question is: in what way will this solution come? The Reform Party promised teachers a salary of EUR 2 000 for next year. I don't think that's gonna happen. But how big could it be in 2023 when your mandate ends in the Riigikogu this time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U91	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U92	Thank you. You also mentioned the organization of the school network yourself. Indeed, the organization of the school network is inevitable in order to find internal resources for teachers to raise their salaries. We have agreed that the Ministry of Education and Research, together with local authorities, will develop a precise action plan for the organisation of the school network by August 2021. The need to organise the school network applies in particular to municipalities with a decreasing number of inhabitants. What has the National Audit Office emphasised? He has stressed the importance of this issue, as well as the fact that he is a close-home kindergarten and a school and a third degree, or 7. Class 1 and upper secondary school must be concentrated to enable high-quality education for all. The report of the National Audit Office sets out a number of specific proposals on how to redesign the school network. But like I said, it's happening in cooperation with the local authorities. The important thing is that children, especially young children, can go to school near home. However, for older classes, when [hour plan] comes from physics and chemistry, with very specific substances, children from regions with very low numbers of children receive better education in the event of their services being aggregated. Coming to the issue of pay, as I said, the organisation of the school network also frees up internal resources in order to increase salaries and thus improve quality. Structural instruments, which have not yet been included, should also be added to the share of education expenditure. However, this remark concerning fixed costs is correct, but fixed costs also come with buildings. So in this sense, it is still possible to find internal resources for them to raise teachers' salaries.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U93	And now one more question. Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U94	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! Surely the 3% increase in teachers' pay is better than the 0% increase proposed by the previous government, there is no doubt about that. At the same time, we know that the government has not made it a secret that this 3% wage increase will come on the road to a very brutal cut in the support for children's and young people's recreational education, which will result in hundreds of young people losing their chance to go to the community next year. I have actually been very interested in how you, Prime Minister, look at thousands of Estonian teachers and say that their raise comes at the expense of children and young people. I think it's very vile about teachers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U95	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U96	Thank you. First of all, hundreds of children don't lose their chance to go to the club. The organisation of hobby education is the responsibility of the local government, the local government organises it and allows children to participate in the hobby education. The income of local governments will increase by 250 million euros next year and the overall income base of local governments will actually be 2.42 billion euros. We are talking about EUR 14 million, which was also intended for local authorities to organise recreational education, and we know that this support has been used very differently from one municipality to another. It has not been uniform and it has not always reached the children. Now, local government elections are coming up. I know that people have a very strong desire for local authorities to organise an education of interest and to enable children to receive an education of interest, so that this wish can also be expressed by voters during the elections. I very much hope that they will, because it should be a priority for every local authority. Now the local authorities just have more money, but they themselves have to decide where they're gonna put the money. I have already given examples of how this money has been used in local governments and how much money will be put into an education in various municipalities when I answer your colleague. For example, the Keila City Government itself contributes so much to recreational education that all the support it receives from the state accounts for only 2% of the cost of such education. At the same time, for example, Rakvere City Government contributes only 19% to recreational education itself, everything else comes from the state. So it actually uses more public resources and less of its own resources to do so. A similar pattern is in the case of Võru and Võru parishes. In Võru city, the share of state support is only 12%, i.e. the city of Võru puts much more money itself, whereas in Võru municipality this figure is 41%, i.e. Võru municipality does not invest as much in children's recreational education as other municipalities. But I'm sure it should be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U97	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U98	Let us move on to the eighth question, which has been submitted by Riigikogu member Jaak Juske and is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. The subject is funding education. Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U99	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister! I will continue with this issue, which concerns the decision of the government you have led to start budget cuts at the expense of children, by halving the support for children and young people's recreational education. Good Prime Minister, I have been trying to understand, to understand how this very brutal, very anti-childish, decision to increase injustice and inequality is still exactly born. I have tried very carefully to listen to your explanations today, which have turned out that you have not discussed this budget cut in advance, that you have coordinated with the local authorities, who have actually taken the state's support into account and who, unlike your arguments, very many have created an additional opportunity for hundreds of young people to be interested. It seems to me that the real reason why this cut was made was because of your party's child's mouth, a good colleague, Jürgen Ligi, who announced that, of course, the support for the education of interest must be withdrawn, because it was a Socialist election promise in its time. Good Prime Minister, is your government really making such cynical choices at the expense of children on the basis of such arguments? Is that really why hundreds of children will be deprived of the possibility of going to a community school in the future, that this support has been given or introduced once on the proposal and initiative of the social democrats? Really?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U100	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U101	Thank you. Once again, I stress that it is not true that we are starting budget cuts at the expense of children. We're not gonna do it. EUR 100 million will go to education in the field of education, EUR 100 million, 7 million of which is not a very high percentage. Your claim that the money for recreational education is halving is simply not true. Secondly, I would like to emphasise once again that the money you are talking about is not money going directly to children, it is money going to local governments. Local authorities get more money and they decide what they do with it. If they want to support children's education of interest, they can do so. It is so-called free money, without a label, money that local governments can use. Now, as I said, local authorities have not used this money evenly. What exactly do we want to do with this support? Firstly, to better target those municipalities with more needy families who really have difficulty paying for an education of interest and where more support for an education of interest is needed. And secondly, to focus more on an education of interest in technical and natural sciences, where more investment is needed. This, too, has not always gone evenly. The same example I have given in Tallinn where [the amount of the allowance] is not really dependent on the number of children. If there are 20,000 children in private interest education and this is supported by the local government with EUR 200000, but there are 10,000 less children in municipal interest education, or half less, and this is supported by the Tallinn City Government with 7 million euros, then it is not the case that the money goes where the children are. Instead, the money goes to the activities organised by the local government itself. However, I think it is important that this money actually reaches the children. I would also like to emphasise that the national budget strategy provides for more than EUR 500 million for the education and youth programme in the next four years, plus more than EUR 818 million for children and families. So children and families are certainly very important to our government.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U102	The question to be specified. Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U103	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Prime Minister! I would like to thank you for your previous reply, although we did not actually get confirmation that you would have refuted the cynical argument put forward by your party partner Jürgen Ligi as to why support for children has been reduced. But on my second question, I devote myself to funding education from this perspective, from which a good colleague, Mr Ossinovski, has already begun. I ask that we still have a very clear social agreement that the average wage of teachers must be 120% of the national average wage. Today, as we have heard before, according to your government's budget plan, teachers' pay will start to fall behind the national average again very quickly. Please tell the teachers who will also listen to us today and see when this day, this year, when the government, the Estonian state, is fulfilling the promise given to the teachers and brings the teachers' average wage to 120% of the country's average. When?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U104	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U105	Thank you. I would like to emphasise one more thing in relation to this education of interest. Local authorities will receive EUR 284 million more, not less, in the next four years. This means that they have EUR 284 million more to support recreational education if they consider it important. So nobody takes anything away when the whole pot gets bigger. It is simply local authorities that can decide according to electoral priorities, which are considered important. Now, as far as the pay of teachers is concerned, the revenue from the state budget also depends on the taxes due, depending on economic growth, depends on how the state is generally doing. Last year and this year, we have been hit by a corona crisis, which has increased the costs that we did not know would be incurred. And in the past, there has been a deficit in the budget. Therefore, I cannot actually answer that question specifically on what date it will happen. It depends on all of these factors. We cannot survive beyond our means, and we must make redeployments within the limits of the funds we have and, of course, on the other hand, increase the economy, make sure that the economy is doing well and that more tax revenue is collected from which such expenditure can be incurred. But in conjunction with that, we also need to clean up the school network. We need to look at where there are synergies, for example, between the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Culture, where activities are duplicated, where we can save to raise teachers' salaries so that the desired level is achieved.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U106	And now for an additional question. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U107	Well, that last one was a little bit [questioning]. Perhaps you will explain what synergy can be between teachers' pay and the Ministry of Culture. Should teachers go side by side as a theatre actor to get a higher salary? Of course, there are all objective factors that affect the ability to raise wages. On the other hand, it is also clearly a matter of priorities: does the government prioritise education or not? And, as has been said, the share of education expenditure in GDP falls to 5% with this budget strategy. Education costs fall by 20% as a share of GDP. This is a very clear example of what is a priority and what is not a priority. Unfortunately, there is no education. I will ask for clarification on what you said about higher education. Academic circles have entered into an educational agreement, you are probably aware of it. This includes student associations, student representatives, academy of young sciences, trade unions. There are a number of important strategic long-standing agreements in the field of education. One of these also concerns the financing of higher education. It is not a new issue for 1.5% of GDP to finance higher education. You can argue about the percentage point, but the point is that the state should finance more so that it is possible to offer high-quality, free higher education. Did I understand correctly from your answer that you do not agree with this and that the government does not allocate additional public resources to higher education and you see the solution to making higher education pay instead? What would it look like? Are there any words "analyze" and "think"? This is, of course, a classic of state bureaucracy. But what is your solution for funding higher education? In what way should this become worthwhile?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U108	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U109	Thank you. First of all, your comment on the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education and Research. There are a number of activities that these ministries do in a similar way. No. Estonian language learning, for example, is one of these activities: the Ministry of Culture manages integration policy and related language learning and, of course, the Ministry of Education and Research also organises language learning. My comment, of course, was not acceptable in such a one-to-one manner that teachers must do something in this direction to raise teachers' pay, but the comment was intended in general. The crisis gives us the opportunity to look at the country as a big picture, to review which activities we duplicate, and to make adjustments where we can save money. If we can save money in one place, we can use it in another place, which is our priority. That was the point of that comment. The salaries of higher education staff have always been or should at least go hand in hand with teachers' salaries. I welcome, within the framework of this country's budgetary strategy, the fact that we can keep this agreement that 1% of gross domestic product will go to R &amp; D. As you yourself know very well, any agreement that locks down some percentage of the state budget actually reduces the opportunities that politicians, ministers, can make within this framework, political choices to bring out their priorities more clearly. Keeping this 1% for R &amp; D is also very important for me, and it also requires effort, but it is actually a longer view. No one is saying thank you for this at the moment, because the results should still appear in years' time. If we look at those countries that are higher in the global innovation index table, or where the well-being of people living is better, we can see that they all invest a lot in R &amp; D. Now the question of higher education. No, that does not mean that we are now moving to a purely paid higher education funding for higher education. However, this means that we are looking for opportunities to finance higher education outside the state budget, because we all admit that there are very large deficits.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U110	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U111	Good fellows! Honourable Members of the Government! We still have about six or seven minutes, so if you want to, you can ask more questions at this time. I have a request to you: if you ask a question, please first tell me who the question is addressed by the members of the government, and then ask the question. Let's just ask one question at a time. First, Valdo Randpere. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U112	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I have a question for Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. Here's the subject. Lately, there has been quite good news about vaccination in Estonia. And now there's going to be some relatively exciting events that tomorrow will change something, I think, by age group and by registration, from next Monday, too. Why don't you tell the people to whom these changes are intended, and I'll tell you which vaccines are coming, how to register and where to go. As much information as you have, share it with us because it's always nice to hear such things and news. When I look around the world, I see that Estonia has basically done quite a lot of vaccination. I see that there are quite a number of countries where the proportion of vaccinees in the population is barely 1%, if any. Estonia is quite good in this area. So I'd love to hear more about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U113	Please, Kaja Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U114	Thank you. Indeed, vaccination is in full swing, and that is what we are actively dealing with. Vaccination depends very much on the supplies of vaccines that come to Estonia. It is good to note that Pfizer's supplies have increased and that is why we have more vaccines, as well as Moderna vaccines, as well as AstraZeneca and Janssen vaccines. Last week we made a new record in the vaccination. We were aiming to vaccinate 60,000 people, but we were able to inject 67722 doses of vaccine. Coverage. In particular, the 70-79-year-olds are currently best covered, of which more than 67% have been vaccinated, so we have moved very close to the 70% that is the target. We are also making good progress among the 60-69-year-olds. Now, indeed, we're going on with younger vaccinations. We are doing this precisely because there are many people who want to vaccinate themselves in the 18-49 age group. At first, we thought we'd come down for ten years, but now we're going to open up the vaccination to anyone who wants it. [You can book time] at the digital registration office, you can sign up on the digiluugu.ee portal. There are mechanisms that allow 5,000 people to register at the same time and others to stay on standby until the opportunity is available. So I'm asking everyone to check in for balance, so these things don't get messed up right away. So far, we have organized vaccination, in particular through family doctors and family nurses, in order to catch older people who want to communicate with someone they may know with their family doctor or family nurse. But now we're also moving on to those major vaccination centers where younger people can sign up and come in on the run. I hope that everyone who has the opportunity will take this opportunity, because it is a good way out of the crisis. As an example, you can see how people live now in Israel, where most people have been vaccinated. They have a life like it used to be.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U115	Thank you. Let's go to the next question. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U116	Thank you. At present, Israel, for other reasons, does not live as it used to, but my question concerns the oil shale, the oil shale factory. The Reform Party has protected the construction of a new oil shale oil plant. It has actually been possible to reverse it, but you have not wanted to do so. Now the Court has suspended this investment probably for at least a year or two. What are the ideas of the Head of Government in this context? Perhaps it would be a good time to close down and take back the EUR 125 million, for example, to pay off the public debt. That's what you think is important, too. And here's the second question, it's also related to Eesti Energia and it's about Narva heating. In fact, Eesti Energia owns Narva's heat grid and we know that the price of CO2 that has already risen to 50 euros has actually made oil shale production in the Baltic cogeneration unit uncompetitive. Couldn't you, for example, take this oil shale oil plant money and help state companies decide to offer a competitive warm price to the narvas in the long view of establishing a new CHP plant? What's your vision?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U117	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U118	Yes, first comment on Israel. Indeed, we ourselves are concerned about the explosion of violence that has been there. My comment was on how people can move freely without masks and, in short, live in the same way as before. I really didn't refer to the tensions that are emerging in the area right now. Now, coming to your question, in order to solve this Narva heat problem, we have a EUR 30 million recovery facility to build a cogeneration plant that would use renewable energy. It's going to be built on. Just the question is, it's gonna take a while to make an investment like this and build a station. But that certainly has to be done, because that is exactly the goal that we would like to achieve. Now, in the big picture, we have agreed that we will abandon oil shale electricity by 2035 and then no more taxpayers' money will be invested in oil shale energy. Now, out of this EUR 125 million, I have also told you before that we have examined how it can be reversed. The answer is that it is not possible to reverse it at the moment without causing damage to the State. The way in which the Governing Board has signed these contracts is within the competence of the Governing Board; it is not directly within the competence of the Government. But we really did examine it. Now, about suing. The court shall be independent and the judgments shall be enforceable. And I think that a further solution to this matter can actually give the answers to this question if I say so. In any case, I do not think it makes sense to invest additional taxpayers' money there. This must be taken into account, and that is what we have taken into account when making the investments we have in the national budget strategy.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U119	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. I thank the members of the Government of the Republic for their reply, and I thank the members of the Riigikogu, the good fellow Members, for asking. Today's Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U120	Honourable Riigikogu! We will start the 14th working week session on Wednesday. There is now an opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Toomas Stone Mountain!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U121	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sincerely pleased to hand over the draft law amending the Act on the Election of the European Parliament and the Law on the Organisation of Local Government, which was launched yesterday in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The purpose of this draft is to remove the restrictions on members of the European Parliament elected from Estonia not to participate in the work of the municipal and city councils. According to current law, MEPs have the right to stand as candidates in municipal elections, but do not have the right to be members of local government councils. In the case of this draft, we have also drawn parallels with the members of the Riigikogu, for whom a similar amendment was made a few years ago, and it can be acknowledged that this amendment was entirely appropriate, as now 101 of the members of the Riigikogu belong to 48 local government councils. One press edition has already used the word "slinging ducks." However, this word might only be appropriate for the law currently in force. However, if the Riigikogu approves this draft law initiated by the Constitutional Committee, it would be inappropriate to use the word "decoup" for members of the European Parliament when they stand as candidates for local elections. Indeed, we have also taken the example of neighbouring countries, for example in Finland and Sweden, Members of the European Parliament have the right to belong to local government councils. I very much hope that Parliament will support this draft. I would like to stress once again that this has been initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, not by the coalition parties, as another press publication wrongly announced. The draft has been delivered electronically. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U122	Lauri West Forest next, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U123	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The last human development report says that regional inequality in Estonia continues to grow. And the latest monitoring report by the Ministry of Finance on the implementation of Estonia's regional development strategy makes it very clear and also gives an illustration of how the increase in regional inequality has been influenced by the use and sharing of euro money and the fact that many sums are actually concentrated in Harjumaa rather than distributed equally across Estonia. In this context, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I will hand over the draft decision of the Riigikogu entitled "Accepting the Principles for the Implementation of the European Union Cohesion Policy Funds 2021 to 2027" by the Riigikogu. This concerns three principles. First of all, in addition to the available regional development funding, 10% of the cohesion policy funds, or EUR 350 million, will be allocated to rural areas to create jobs and support small businesses. Principle 2: Increased support rates will be set for less prosperous regions, based on the value of GDP per capita. And principle 3: In general, regional application lines are used instead of national calls for proposals. The draft has been transmitted electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U124	Now, please, Ruuben Kaalepi.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U125	Honourable Riigikogu! 21 members of the Riigikogu will initiate a draft statement by the Riigikogu, which aims to draw attention to the decades of Russification Policy, which has been used against many indigenous peoples of Russia and which has been particularly intensified in recent years. The statement condemns the Russification policy carried out by the Russian Federation authorities, such as legislative obstacles to the learning and teaching of national languages in educational institutions, the restriction of religious freedom, the suppression of peaceful demonstrations in support of the rights of indigenous peoples through repression and physical force, the extremist declaration and closure of civil movements protecting the interests of indigenous peoples, the repression, imprisonment and unjustly placing in psychiatric hospitals of activists standing up for the rights of indigenous peoples, and the right of indigenous peoples to take part in ignoring the use of natural resources in their natural habitats. 19 of the initiators of this statement have submitted their signatures digitally to the sitting department and two are handed over on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U126	Now I'm asking for Vilja Toomas.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U127	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I will give the Riigikogu the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated yesterday by the Legal Affairs Committee. The aim of the draft is to increase independence and transparency in the execution of requests for communication data to be collected in criminal proceedings. To this end, the Code of Criminal Procedure is brought into line with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union No C-746/18 of 2 March, which found that the prosecutor's office cannot be regarded as an independent body for the purpose of granting licences for requests for the data referred to in Article 1111 (2) (3) of the Law on Electronic Communications. According to the amendment, these permits would be granted by the court in the future. It also stresses the need to take into account the gravity and nature of the crime and the related violation of the rights of the person when granting authorisations. The target groups affected by the amendment are the prosecutor's office and courts. The draft is intended to enter into force in general terms, i.e. on the 10th day following its publication in the Official Journal of the State. A majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required for the adoption of the draft. The draft has been forwarded to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu by electronic means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U128	And now Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U129	Honourable Riigikogu! I am handing over the draft law amending the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act. The purpose of this draft is to amend the regulation on the appointment of recognised experts to the ERR Board, in other words, in plain language. The aim of the amendment is to ensure greater independence from the political procedure when appointing members of the Supervisory Board of recognised experts in the field of activity of the ERR. We know that the National Audit Office has already stated in its report "Management and Financing of Estonian National Broadcasting" in 2016 that the law should be amended to ensure the balance of the Council. The audit points out that the election of the members of the Governing Council has not always taken place in such a way as to enable the public to understand the considerations of the appointment of specific candidates to the Council. This draft law enters into force when it enters into force in 2025, so it does not concern the experts currently working on the ERR Council. The author of this bill is Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, but I know that there are many people in this Chamber who support my thinking. I very much hope that there will be an active and substantive debate on this issue, because many politicians know that the word is free and it is also very important to ensure it at the level of the ERR Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U130	Mr. Kruusimäe, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U131	Yeah, I have a procedure, and it's connected to the briefing before the hearing. The Social Democrats pointed out very precisely that the Prime Minister has always said that Question Time is very good to discuss matters relating to the COVID. But I have to say that, since the questioner always has the opportunity to ask an additional question in Question Time and then someone else can [to ask one further question], it is broadly possible for 16 people to ask questions and all these questions should then be for the Prime Minister. If we look at the bad line that coalition people are also asking their minister for further questions, so-called 'playing a group meeting', then the opposition will have even less chance of obtaining objective COVID information. Would you discuss this on the board? And how would it be possible for delegates to get the [Prime Minister] to make a political statement or to do anything? So we could at least ask, play seemingly democracy, so that in a crisis situation we can quickly exchange information.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U132	Thank you. The rules of Question Time are the same for all members of the Riigikogu. Okay. Let us now move on to the fact that no one else wants to hand over any drafts or inquiries. There were no inquiries today, there were five drafts, and we will, of course, decide on their future procedure in accordance with the rules of procedure and home. Now we're conducting a presence check. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U133	95 members of the Riigikogu registered as present.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U134	Our first item today is the third reading of draft law 312 on the amendment of the Credit Institutions Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiations, which means that we can go to the final vote, because such a proposal has been made by the lead committee. Since we've just been conducting a presence check, I'm not going to make a separate invitation. I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu to be adopted as a law. Good Riigikogu, I will vote before you on the draft law amending the Credit Institutions Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the amendment of other laws in this respect. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U135	The draft was supported by 92 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U136	Our second item today is the third reading of the draft law amending the State Assets Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. We are going to hold a final vote. Good Riigikogu, I will vote before you on the draft law amending the State Assets Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U137	The draft was supported by 92 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U138	Our third item today is the third reading of draft law 347 amending the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases initiated by the Government of the Republic. Here, too, there is the proposal of the lead committee for a final vote. But if anyone has a call request, please! And really, that's the wish. First of all, on behalf of the Isamaa Group, Priit Sibul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U139	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Infectious Disease Prevention and Control Act is the best example of how things do not need to be done and how they definitely should not be done. Everything that could go wrong went wrong in the process of handling this bill. The changes planned by the bill brought fear to a large number of people, and they came to the street for their beliefs at a time when we are under restrictions. But instead of the debate and debate, the government coalition responded to these peaceful demonstrators with absolutely disproportionate police forces. The reason for this use of the police force was the threat to constitutional order. In retrospect, the Prime Minister announced that there was no threat to the constitutional order. But that's not all. The Prime Minister claimed that none of this was said. In fact, however, we all know that the chief of police, Elmar Vaher, referred to this threat. At this point, I congratulate the chief of police that, at least afterwards, he has been honest enough to say that such a use of words had failed. The transmission of such claims or references to the public [that constitutional order is in danger] is, of course, totally unacceptable. What, then, is this bill really intended to achieve? Since the Prime Minister and the coalition in power did not want or dare to emerge from the emergency situation, this was done through this and several other amendments to the law. Perhaps by amending some laws, the aim is to give the various institutions the rights that exist in an emergency or, at the very least, some clarification. Therefore, the normal situation will be changed to an emergency situation forever, and this is, of course, completely the wrong way. As the mistress is afraid of the responsibility that needs to be assumed in an emergency, a route has been chosen where, during a crisis, a group of people will take the lead in the country and in the crisis. Everyone knows how it ends very badly. The crisis requires a leader and a responsible person, not a room in which people can gather. Today we have all the opportunities at the legislative level, and we do not need to adopt this draft as a law. Of course, the procedure for the draft was not better than the content. In the Committee on Social Affairs, there was something that some may recall from childhood a picture of a squirrel caught in the spring summer, one by one being torn off their feet or wings, looking at how long they will last. The same brutal and unnecessary action was taken in the Committee on Social Affairs to deal with this draft. Initially, there was compensation for sick days in the draft, which we have all supported in this Chamber, but this part was torn off and was adopted by amending the Health Services Act in such a way that the opposition was not able to table the amendments so far. These changes remained in the body where the content was no longer present. This is completely unprecedented and absurd. In the Committee on Social Affairs, it was not possible to explain, until the procedure ended, which tasks of the Health Board and how the representatives of the Police and Border Guard Board would perform. But we do know that the Police and Border Guard Board will be delegated to the Rescue Board. It's like an endless ring game called Who in the Garden? and all because the government coalition considers it reasonable to create an eternal emergency rather than declare an emergency situation. The Fatherland Group cannot support such action, and we will vote against this draft becoming a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U140	Next, on behalf of the EKRE Group, I would like to ask Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U141	President-in-Office of the Council. Colleagues! I hate it when I have to repeat myself. I always like to come up with new, fresh stories, but in this case, the proverb is that repetition is the mother of wisdom. That is why I am saying what I have already spoken to the public in many places, also in this Chamber. This is a bad bill, not only because it is a bad draft itself, but it is a bad draft with a whole bunch of other drafts. This is a draft which will further reduce Parliament's role in conjunction with other drafts, such as the draft law on media services, etc., and I am not going to count them all. Parliament basically withdraws from office as an instrument for monitoring the activities of the agencies. A honourable colleague from the Isamaa Group has called it an administrative state. This is a rather precise definition, only that this administrative state, too, is managed not by ministries as such, agencies as such, but by the grey cardinals of ministries and authorities, red cardinals, whatever cardinals, who actually form a junta in the Republic of Estonia, whose pendant is political leaders, ministers, government, civil control, who really does not decide anything. This morning we had a meeting with two heads of office: the Chief of the Defence Forces and the Head of the Police and Border Guard Board. We found out again that they were planning their own action. They decide for themselves how they behave in certain situations, what kind of tactic or strategy they choose. This is the junta, this is the administrative state. And why is that possible? This is possible because we have failed, incompetent politicians who are not really interested in going in depth in their field and leading the field. They don't know how, and they don't want to. It is extremely convenient that we see this day after day in this hall to come and read the memo put together by officials and make a smart face to it. It's awfully comfortable, but it's not government administration. With this specific bill, we delegate even more power to officials, and at the same time reduce their responsibility. At this morning's meeting with the director-in-chief of the Police and Border Guard Board, I was forced to use a sharp tone and call him to order for arrogance. For being arrogant. Members will be jumped to send me these facts, send me this information, send me these documents. Although it has to be the other way around, we ask and you deliver. That's how we answered him. It is an administrative state and this draft gives the administrative state even more power. This is not acceptable, and that is why we are voting against this draft, despite the fact that, as a result of the political struggle, we managed to improve this draft somewhat and at least to introduce some specific restrictions on the deepening of the administrative state. But that is not enough, of course it is not enough. We're doing a tactical retreat right now. But tactical retreat doesn't mean that... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U142	Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U143	... that we give up the breakthrough in this war and win over the self-righteous officials of the administrative state, the powerless parliament and the incompetent government. We're not capitulating, we're continuing this war. This country must be a country in which elections have the idea that the programmed positions expressed in the elections must be guidelines for the implementation of the policy, not for the helpless, barely-reading or curfewing ministers, which are counted. This is not political leadership. This is not the basis of the programmes. This is not really a rule of law, a parliamentary republic. I understand that a lot of people in this room and people behind the screens don't like what I'm saying. I don't like it because you realize I'm right. Our politicians, our ministers today are puppets. But we cannot accept this, because it is not a country that will survive in the long term. The Marionette State will be taken away from the puppets when the masters decide to take it from the puppets, the puppets. And who will this country belong to? I am now putting up a big question here: who will this country belong to if the dolls are to be expelled from the theatre? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U144	Now, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U145	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Good viewers! Hopefully, today we will adopt as a law the draft law amending the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases 347. I know that this broadcast is being watched by many people who do not normally follow the debates of the Riigikogu, and I want to explain to them the fate and meaning of this bill. I have spoken to many of those who have expressed their opposition to this bill before Toompea when I come to work, and I believe that they have not been directed by an evil hand, but by ordinary Estonian people who have been upset by the virus crisis that has lasted for over a year. I hope they listen to me with an open mind. So the idea of this draft is simple: to reduce the bureaucracy between national administrations in combating the virus crisis. Debateing this bill is the best example that Estonia is a legal state, not a police state. Everything that authorities which exercise public authority do must be clearly defined by law. They must not abuse their power. And that's what we're doing here in this Chamber, contrary to what the previous speaker said. There has never been a crisis of contagious disease this serious in Estonia before. I recall that we have over 1,200 people dead with COVID-19 disease. My condolences to all their loved ones and recognition to the medical staff who have had to fight the virus by endangering their health and counting overtime. Our laws were not quite ready to work in a situation where the government decided to limit the spread of the disease. According to current laws, we were in a situation where compliance with restrictions was to be verified by the Health Board. I believe that we agree that if we have established some rules together, compliance with them must also be verified, as is the control of speed limits in traffic and compliance with safety standards in the food industry. However, we are now in a situation where the Health Board did not have the resources or experience to check whether people were complying with the 2+2 requirement or the obligation to wear a mask indoors. In this situation, the Health Board wanted to call on the police, who have officials and experience in carrying out such checks. I stress that the point of the law has been, from the outset, that the Health Board can only call on the police in the event of a serious crisis, in law-like terms during an emergency. That is what the explanatory memorandum to the bill says. I admit that the reference to an emergency in the text of the law, in cooperation with opposition parties, makes the text clearer. The law also says that calling for help must be confirmed by the government. It is certainly not true, however, that these rumors are that the law gives the police any special rights to the treatment of virus distributors. All rights of the police, including the right to take people into custody or to enter anyone's possession, are already in the law of law and order. The police still have these rights. However, it is important that, when exercising these rights, the police must always consider whether this is proportionate. For example, if someone's life is clearly in danger, police can enter their home without permission. The maximum amount that the new NETS will actually allow the police to do is to take a person who endangers the health of other people and who does not follow orders to drive him home. My message to those who are worried about accepting the Nets is don't be afraid. There's nothing to worry about. Estonia is a rule of law and, of course, you will have the opportunity to express yourself even every day in the future. However, protest must be conducted in accordance with the law and with respect for the rights of others. The demonstrations shall include clear organisers who apply for authorisation and are responsible for the safety of the participants. Denying the virus and suggesting that it breaks the weakest, and that is their problem, is not right. It is our common duty to listen to and respect each other and to protect those in a weaker position in society. The virus is contagious regardless of what people think it is. I would like to thank all those who have contributed to the completion of this bill and thereby to the rapid progress of the Riigikogu, of which the EKRE leader Martin Helme is not least important. I hope that this practice, that the opposition and coalition of the Riigikogu work together to actually improve the draft laws before us, will continue in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U146	On behalf of the Estonian Centre Party Group Siret Kotka.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U147	Good chairman of the sitting! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Act on Prevention and Control of Infectious Diseases, or the Nets Bill, caused emotions in society. Today, these emotions have eased. We met society's expectations and clarified the points that gave rise to conflicting opinions, thus making the draft more humane and easier to understand. I believe that complex laws need to be better clarified. At the same time, it should be stressed that the changes introduced by the NETS will help to reduce red tape and save costs. I assure you that Estonia is not and will not be a police state. The health authority is a very small institution and it is therefore unthinkable that it will be able to carry out all the supervision itself under today's corona conditions. It is therefore reasonable that other bodies also assist the Health Agency in carrying out supervision. It is important to note that law enforcement bodies can only be involved in an epidemic emergency or emergency and must be decided by the Government of the Republic. The Centre Party is of the opinion that there must be a relationship of trust between the people and the state, and that is what we have drawn from in lawmaking. The procedure for this draft also shows substantive cooperation between parliamentary parties. Our goal continues to be to make every Estonian citizen feel safe. There's no reason for fear or negative emotions. Together, we cut red tape, we are more effective in overcoming the epidemic and we face a safer Estonia. Let us support the draft law on the prevention and control of communicable diseases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U148	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U149	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democrats cannot support this draft in any way, because this draft is a good example of how legislation makes hogs when it comes to saying popular languages. This could also be mentioned in Parliament's pulpit as a gross overroll of good legislative practice. Unfortunately, this is what was done in the most graphic way in this bill. We have been working here over the last few weeks on quite a number of draft laws on the prevention and control of communicable diseases, i.e. the Nets. But no one in the world really knows the name of this thing. These draft laws, around which there has been so much confusion, are more commonly known as the law of the police state. In the shadow or context of all this confusion, the government union, which at one point went fast, has lifted one very important piece of the bill, thereby violating the normal procedural rules. This led to a situation where it was not possible to hold a debate on sick days in this Chamber as part of the procedure for this draft law. Not only social democrats are protesting against this, but also many members of society affected by the issue of sick days. This week we received a letter of protest from the EVEA about this same procedure, because they also took the opportunity to explain why it is important for businesses that the state take greater responsibility for the reimbursement of sick days in the event of such an epidemic. They were not given an opportunity to explain. So there is no way we can support this bill. This bill will certainly remain a sign of Estonia's political culture. It's a great textbook example of politicians talking to people about a whole lot of bullshit, even a lie, saying a law to something that it really isn't. This [assessment] applies to the whole story of how police are granted unprecedented rights and we must all be at home in fear of the police knocking on our door one day and taking our children away. Unfortunately, this talk came from a parliamentary party and is a textbook example of how extremists use a vulgar lie to confuse society and then score popularity on it. After all, we heard the rhetoric that this party's representative brought to the table a little while ago. Sounds like the most authentic propaganda textbook or, when he was talking about puppets and theater, a very bad version of a foot-butt humor. In addition to the fact that this bill has been dealt with as a result of lying and wrestling and causing a lot of social confusion, what are we talking about? The rights that the previous government coalition, which belonged to the same extreme populist party, has actually given to the Health Board a long time ago. The norms created by the previous government coalition gave the Health Board the rights they have today. The fact that the aim is now to cut red tape and to involve the police a little more easily in the work of the Health Board does not fundamentally change the rights that you have given to the Health Board a long time ago. Whether or not it was the right thing to do in this form to give it at that time was a lot of confusion, and in haste quite a lot happens, it is a question of its own. But lying to people the way it's done is mean. I hope we learn from this as a society. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U150	We have exhausted the speeches made by the political groups. There will be a final vote and we will prepare it. Dear Riigikogu, I will vote before you on the draft law amending the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U151	The draft was supported by 56 members of the Riigikogu, 39 were opposed and there were no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U152	Our fourth item is the third reading of Bill 351 of the Law amending the Penal Code (non-cash means of payment) initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. [But there is no wish to participate in them]. The commission has proposed to us a final vote, which we are now going to do. Ladies and gentlemen, I put to the vote before you a draft law amending the Penal Code, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 351. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U153	The bill was supported by 90 members of the Riigikogu and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U154	The fifth item is the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Accepting the State's long-term development strategy "Estonia 2035' submitted by the Government of the Republic. For a presentation, I would like to ask Erki Savisaare, Chair of the Monetary Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U155	Thank you, Mr President. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic submitted a draft decision to the Riigikogu on 12 October last year. The first reading of the draft was completed on 25 November last year. As a reminder, this is a strategy that creates a framework that brings together Estonia's most important strategic goals and policies that have been agreed at national level and take account of international commitments, links long-term strategy to financing, i.e. taking into account the prospects and opportunities of public finances, provides the basis for budgetary decisions, including the planning and use of structural funds, and provides the basis for shaping Estonia's positions in international coordination processes, including at the level of participation in European Union policy planning. The strategy will create the conditions for better organisation of the country's strategic and performance management, including the reduction of the number of strategy papers and the central integration of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) into the country's development documents. This draft was discussed by the Committee on Finance in preparation for its second reading, including on 4 and 10 May. By the deadline for submitting amendments, 16 December last year by 5.15 p.m., the members of the Riigikogu, the political groups and the committees of the Riigikogu tabled 23 amendments to the draft, six of which were subsequently withdrawn. A total of 28 proposals were made by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The commission also asked all other Riigikogu committees for an opinion on the draft, as well as stakeholders involved in preparing the draft. Let me briefly summarise what the committees thought. All the full texts can be found online on the 262 page of the bill. The Committee on Legal Affairs, the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities, the Committee on European Union Affairs, the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs supported the draft and no amendments were tabled. The Committee on Culture, together with its opinion, also submitted proposals for amendments to the text of the draft and comments on the draft regulations and the explanatory memorandum. In principle, the Committee on the Environment supported the draft, but pointed out in the opinion the places that needed to be changed. The Committee on Rural Affairs considered that solutions to rural and economic problems were not clear enough from the text of the "Estonia 2035" strategy and proposed amendments to the draft. The Committee on Foreign Affairs pointed out that foreign policy was not mentioned among the strategic objectives of the draft. The Committee on National Defence tabled amendments to the draft and subsequently issued an additional opinion. The problem committee on the population crisis and the Special Committee on Anti-Corruption also put forward a number of proposals, together with opinions, to amend the draft. The Committee on Finance examined all the amendments, opinions and letters received and formulated its amendments on the basis of them, which were included in the list of amendments, and added further explanations to the explanatory memorandum. In essence or in part 12 amendments were taken into account by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The amendments taken into account in substance and in part are accompanied by a reference to the Committee on Monetary Affairs' proposal, which takes them fully into account. Six proposals were rejected by the Commission. First, Amendment 6, tabled by the members of the Riigikogu, Tarmo Kruusimäe and Madis Milling. The commission supported the view expressed by the representative of the drafter that the initial wording, i.e. "nicotine and tobacco consumption," would remain in the strategy as regards tobacco and nicotine, and not just "use of tobacco," as envisaged by the proposal. Although the expression "use of tobacco" has been used in previous development documents, this strategy makes a conscious choice to add nicotine to the list, in addition to tobacco. In addition to the harmful effects of tobacco, the harmful effects of nicotine use have been highlighted in a number of European countries, including Finland. A conscious and innovative approach in the field of public health is to highlight the harmful effects of the use of nicotine in strategic documents. Secondly, Amendment 22, tabled by the Committee on National Defence. The commission supported the position expressed by the author's representative, which did not recommend that the other fundamentals of the policy approved by the Riigikogu be mentioned in the draft. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law explains that the strategy has not changed the objectives of any policy at Riigikogu level, nor of the development plan for the sector, but that their adaptation to the changed environment should be considered if necessary. The strategy is in line with the Constitution and takes into account the fundamentals, laws, international agreements and other documents guiding the strategic choices of the state, which are currently in force at the level of the Riigikogu. Thirdly, Amendment 27, tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. In view of the situation, the Commission has proposed that defence costs be at least 2% of GDP and remain in line with the emerging threat picture. Fourthly, Amendment 42, tabled by the members of the Riigikogu Tarmo Kruusimäe and Madis Milling. The commission supported the opinion expressed by the representative of the drafter that tax policy to reduce risk behaviour contributes to the promotion of public health, but a change in tax policy requires a broader political and societal debate on this issue. Without this debate, it is premature to enter the final solution into the strategy. Activities related to tax policies that reduce risk behaviour can be included in the strategy's action plan if there is a political agreement on this issue. Fifth, Amendment 46, tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The lead committee supported the position expressed by the representative of the drafter that specific sector capabilities should be planned in lower level strategic documents, such as the National Defence Development Plan and the Independent Military Defence Capacity Programme and the Defence Investment Programme. Sixth, Amendment 47, tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The commission supported the opinion expressed by the representative of the drafter that it would be worth considering the necessary changes to the action plan "Estonia 2035." The aim of the Estonian 2035 strategy is to deal with crises and hybrid threats in itself, not to solve how this is achieved. The explanatory memorandum sets out in more detail how the proposals of the sectoral committees can be taken into account, as well as the comments made by the representative of the drafter and the reasons for not supporting them. To conclude the debate, the Commission's consensual recommendation was to conclude the second reading and to conclude the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U156	Good waitress, there are some questions for you. Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U157	Thank you. Good performer! Somehow you have little spirit, even though you are dealing with such an important subject. You are basically drawing us what Estonia will be like in 2035. If I would now like to make it clear to you that please tell us what Estonia will be like in 2035 then how will you sum up the strategy that you are currently defending before us. And the second question relates to the fact that I understand that you have listed us with the amendments that have, in essence, been introduced recently. However, after the first presentation of the strategy to date, what do you think is the most important aspect that has changed with this strategy?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U158	Thank you. I believe that in 15 years' time, Estonia will be one lucky small country on the shores of the Baltic Sea, and I hope that we will all work together to achieve this goal. Major structural changes were not introduced to this bill; in the main, everything is as the previous Prime Minister Jüri Ratas introduced here before the Riigikogu. These 51 amendments are mainly wording adjustments and such minor additions, not fundamental changes to strategic objectives.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U159	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U160	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Erki! Finally, the Committee on Monetary Affairs formulated defence costs as at least 2% of defence costs and will remain in line with the emerging threat picture. But we do have a problem that they are in no way in line with the emerging threat. The current RES has a reduction of EUR 77.8 million compared to the previous year, which will be EUR 16.6 million next year, and defence costs will fall to 2.02% of GDP by 2024. I would argue that this is absolutely not in line with the evolving threat. How would you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U161	Thank you. Indeed, there is a proposal in the strategy to write a sentence that defence costs are at least 2% of GDP, i.e. these costs cannot fall below 2%, and must remain in line with the emerging threat picture. I believe that we have competent people working in the Ministry of Defence, and if they believe that the risk picture becomes such that Estonia needs to increase its defence costs, it will be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U162	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U163	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! After all, there are many things in the development strategy with a high degree of generalisation. We read that Estonian society is caring, cooperative and open. And then we say we shouldn't write some things down there, we should have debates. Is it perhaps time we talked about people's risk behaviour and health damage when we are seven years behind this strategy in 2018? I understand that if we are debating now, we will assume budgetary financial commitments. I don't think the simple thing we tried to sign up for the less stupid decisions, the less we're paying for them, the less we're paying for the RES. Most of these rejections came from the Ministry of Finance. Do you have any additional information you could share with us?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U164	Thank you. The year 2018 was three years ago and also then held debates. And certainly debates will also be held in 2028, seven years from now. I believe that here in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu, debate can be held every day and that we can also discuss the topics that you raised with your amendments. This is a perfectly normal process, and I think these debates should be stopped.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U165	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U166	I'll go straight ahead without the courtesy forms. This story sounds really good, but the reality is that the Department of Defense and the Defence Forces cannot plan a new development plan without having specific numbers ahead. If this number is 2.02%, then there will be no development plan that matches our threat picture. The Air Force doesn't have any combat capabilities, the Navy doesn't have any combat capabilities. At least there have been decisions about the navy now, not about the air force. I'm just saying, we shouldn't go on like this, it would be very short-sighted right now. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U167	Thank you. Well, I am not the person here today who would appreciate whether the capacity of the Estonian Defence Forces is necessary, sufficient or there are some shortcomings. I believe that, as a member of the National Defence Committee, you know this content much better. But, as far as I know, the Ministry of Defence has never come with a message that the budget does not respond to the threat and that they would have any problems in this regard or that Estonia's security would therefore be in some kind of danger. When the Ministry of Defence comes up with this message, both the government and the Riigikogu must make the necessary decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U168	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U169	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Yeah, I was wrong in a year, I meant 2028. But now from Amendment 6, on which you said that the representative of the Ministry of Finance said that this is a novel idea and that it has already been used in Finland, and that it will in principle outweigh England, Iceland and New Zealand, where perhaps this is the case. Can you tell me that if Finland is already a complete joker or a slim squared king, what other countries will it weigh up? When can we start to take into account that now we are based not on the Finnish line, but perhaps on the experience of other countries? The Ministry of Finance has definitely made this calculation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U170	The draft is not initiated by the Ministry of Finance, the draft is initiated by the State Chancellery and this draft came from the Government. In this small Estonia, we must monitor what is happening in all neighbouring countries, learn from their mistakes and try to find the best solutions that work in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U171	The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. Thank you! Let's go to the negotiations. First of all, Mr Kallas has asked for the floor on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U172	Honourable President-in-Office! Lately, we have heard an incessant lamentation from one particular direction, that Estonia needs a long plan, helps with tinkering in small matters, needs a long plan. If what's in front of us isn't a long plan, then what is it? And is that a good plan? There are certainly many things in this plan that I think might be different. There are too many good wishes. There are too many thoughts that someone has to do something and that something should be done. A few observations. There's got to be something you can do for the population to grow. But what? What is credible and effective? Health and social expenditure must be increased. But how? Socio-economic, spatial and ethnic segregation is a growing problem. What do you do with it? And one very serious remark is that the strategy says that our tax burden is decreasing, but there is no word about whether we will also have lower costs. And measuring the tax burden is 33% of gross domestic product in the 2021 budget. With this number, we have always boasted that our tax burden is low. But the tax burden is, in this sense, felt that what the state is actually doing with money is an indication of the proportion of costs. In one piece of material, I looked for [this information] in the budget explanatory memorandum as well, but did not find it said that 39% is expenditure, but the other way of saying that if our expenditure is 67% tax revenue and our tax burden is 33% and if we do a simple arithmetical equation, it will be that the costs are 49% of gross domestic product. It's a very big number, and this thing definitely deserves to think. But I took the floor instead to say that it is actually a very good long plan. 17,000 people have contributed. There are no long plans for the development of the country that will be completed somewhere in the back room. The long plan is, and must be, a compromise between many parties, so it cannot satisfy everyone either. However, based on this plan, more precise and better sub-plans can be made, including in defence and other areas. The two governments have made this long plan and it has the authority to process this plan in the Riigikogu. Whoever wants and can, offer an alternative. I think this is a very difficult task. Anyway, I suggest everyone vote in favour of this plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U173	Next, please call chair Jaak White.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U174	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U175	Please! Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U176	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good listeners! Dear technical staff! I, too, have been familiar with the preparation of this strategy from the outset, rather since I have been in this Parliament, and, together with the EKRE Group and the Committee on Trouble to Solve the Population Crisis, have tried to shape its content. However, this was only possible after the principles for drawing up and processing the strategy had already been fixed. I will come back to the criticism of this process and to the expression of the strategy pushing from this process, but I would like to start by mentioning a few things that I think are positive. First of all, I would like to point out that almost all the proposals made by the Committee on Troubleshooting have been taken into account. This makes the strategy, of course, more precise and scientific. Some of our group's proposals have also been taken into account, which have been aimed at reducing sloganism and clarifying the text, and I am thinking about these earlier proposals. In addition, there are two other world-view theories, which have also entered the text, hidden there, and may seem like small things, but which actually reflect our constitution and the very fundamental attitudes of our society. These [the teas] still exist there, which is that hidden. Firstly, on our proposal, the proportion of people who speak and use Estonian as their native language has also become part of the government's action plan and metrics. We would have preferred the share of Estonians, which would have been more precise, because this is what we will find out from the registers and the census. In fact, the share of Estonians, as you know, has decreased since 2015 (based on calculations based on Eurostat data). However, under Estonian conditions, the native language defines the nationality by some 97 to 98%. The idea of offering this measure was to acknowledge the goal that the share of Estonians in Estonia should not decrease. So it's done. But it's about to fall into this very small honey pot that we were able to put into the strategy, a very big tar drop. Indeed, in the current state, this objective is empty because there is no baseline and no target. So, and now the other little good thing. Our proposal introduces a requirement in the government's action plan that opportunities for greater use of referendum initiatives should be developed to empower people, communities and civil society organisations and to participate in governance. This is probably the smallest step in the world towards the adoption of referendums as instruments of democracy. These little things that are important to us and, of course, to the EKRE came in during the previous government. Now I come to the main message. The attitude has always been similar; it has not changed with the going of the coalition opposition. In fact, it also slightly reflected what Viktoria Ladynskaja said that if it had been the development strategy of Estonian society until 2035 which society would have followed with interest and which would then have been put to a referendum, with such full and solidarity approval, then this debate would be the most important event of the year. Then there'd be a bunch of journalists, flashing flashlights, interviewing, etc. But it's not all there. The reason is that this is not a strategy for Estonian society, but is a slogan vision offered to Estonia by officials. Good officials in themselves, yes, good officials. But the content of the strategy is foggy and implementation suspicious. Maybe it's even good if it's not put into practice like this. The strategy's appearance has been determined by the method of drawing it up. After all, the social development strategy should be designed in such a way that, first of all, a broad-based study makes it clear what are the main problems for citizens and where they want to move, the key issues that are specifically asked how citizens would like to solve them are set out specific objectives, which clearly specify the order of their importance. The goals of the "Estonia 2035" strategy have been agreed in discussions, where 17,000 people have allegedly contributed. But this method does not ensure that the strategy meets society's expectations at all. This is because the input received, including Parliament among those involved, only reflects the attitudes of a part of society which, of course, have been taken into account by the development plan's authors only those that suit them. Such a method cannot be done differently; they must only take into account their own proposals, because there is no order of priorities. They have not taken into account the opinion of citizens as a whole. Finally, I will give a few more examples of surveys of the values of the Institute of Social Studies. The biggest problem in Estonia is unemployment, small wages and pensions. Is the priority of this strategy linked to solving these problems? I don't know. Next, we have more than two thirds of citizens in favour of the President's direct election, but there is no mention of it in the strategy. Further, the amendment of the Constitution so that citizens can initiate binding referendums, on the basis of polls, is in favour of about four fifths of citizens. There is, in [the strategy], a pathetic, ambiguous part of the sentence that says nothing about the strong desire of citizens for greater decision-making. Nor is [the strategy] fixed that the lion's share of our citizens agrees with very limited immigration. No meaningful conclusions have been drawn from this either. Instead, there are a lot of slogans about openness and diversity, which are rather indicative of moving away from the nation state, which citizens clearly do not want when we look at the studies on immigration. So, ultimately, I must say that it is very difficult to approve this strategy in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U177	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U178	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll ask for three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U179	Yes, you can. Please! Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U180	Mr Jaak spoke about the overall state of the strategy, and I will focus on its security and defence component. And what would I say about that? It just doesn't say much here. We have the Defence Forces and the Defence League, we belong to NATO, we spend 2% of GDP and we rely on a broad-based national defence approach. That's basically it, but the strategy can't be like that and it can't be satisfied. Of course, where you can see the error, come and help. We have tabled three amendments. The first and most important of these was proposal 27 on defence costs. We have proposed replacing this sentence with a statement that defence costs represent at least 2% of GDP, which would say that defence costs are at least 2.6% of GDP. This [2% requirement] simply does not correspond to the current security situation. That's how laconic it is. To give examples, we see that the new government has reduced defence costs by EUR 77.8 million compared to the last RES of the previous government, EUR 16.6 million for next year, and by 2024, defence costs would fall to 2.02% of GDP. This does not correspond in any way to the current security situation. We should have increased defence costs quite decisively immediately after the Ukrainian war broke out and Russia annexed Crimea. But we have not done so and that is why we do not have many very important capabilities. If we increased the cost of protection to 2.6%, what would we do for this money or how would we use it? 2% goes purely to the maintenance of existing military capabilities. This analysis has been presented by both the Ministry of Defence and the Commander of the Defence Forces; there is simply no room for anything else. That is why more than 0.5% would be needed to create the new military capabilities that we are currently lacking. The remaining 0.1% would cover the costs of staying in Estonia and, of course, the ammunition investment programme should also be continued. Then where would we get the money? It's a question. Increasing expenditure to 2.6% would practically mean that if it were borrowed, public debt would increase by 5%. This is a very serious decision: should we do so or not if we do not have enough tax revenue? But what do we do? We have a great deal to consider whether to increase public debt by 5% of GDP over this decade or to risk that we will not end well in the event of a military conflict if it breaks out. These risks are not comparable. That's why we shouldn't have a question here right now about how to do it. Yeah, we can make that savings, but what it costs, we can't say today. It's not easy to drive. This is a very difficult decision, as I emphasised during the OTRK debate. I stress the same thing today that this is not an easy decision, but in the current situation it is inevitable, because the risks are simply too great. Let's go. We have made two more proposals, proposals 46 and 47, which we also call on you to support. What, then, are the limitations of our ability that we should fill? We defined them in two sentences. Proposal No 46: "We create mine-watering, coastal defence and mid-earth air defence capabilities and complete the development of armoured manoeuvrability (creation of a tank unit) as well as the creation of near-air defence capabilities in the Defence League. We increase the ability of night-time combat and electronic warfare and apply technically innovative solutions, including drones and unmanned earth vehicles. " This is our strategic vision for the development of national defence. Of course, other visions are also possible, but they have not yet been presented. Of course, they should be discussed a little more, but here [our amendment mentions] these most basic capabilities. We can see that in the case of mine-watering and coastal defence, we have actually made a breakthrough. We have this money planned in both the old and the new RES, and the Commander of the Defence Forces assured us that it would move on. Defence Minister Kalle Laane has also confirmed this. This is a very positive development. Unfortunately, the same medium-range anti-aircraft does not apply. Mid-earth anti-aircraft is also a crucial capability, precisely to ensure both the primary independent defence capability and the arrival of the Allied forces. Allied forces cannot arrive here unless we can secure their landing. We also need to protect the big-tallinn space from the air. Here's our leadership, here's our infrastructure, here's where our population is most densely located. These things simply cannot be done within 2%. It's as simple as that. Our proposal 47 concerns internal defence. There is one sentence that we have wanted to add: 'We are creating a crisis reserve for police and border guards, and we are providing border guards with the necessary capabilities, preparedness and the legal basis for carrying out military protection tasks in border areas. " Here too, we have an important gap. After all, it is clear that we have a number of possible military threat scenarios and they can materialise in many ways. But it is clear that border guards on the ground cannot replace the Defence League or the Defence Forces. The Narva River Bridges, when it comes to conflict, must blow up the border guard, no one else, just to talk about it. I would ask that we support our amendments. However, it is clear that there is still work to be done on this document in order for it to provide a measure of the strategy. That is why, on behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I propose that the second reading be interrupted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U181	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U182	This proposal has also been transmitted electronically.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U183	Yeah, we got it pretty good.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U184	I'll ask for three more minutes, just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U185	I'll give you three more minutes, please, eight in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U186	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Estonia deserves that its future strategy includes thoughts that are the most constructive and considerate of all the people of Estonia, and objectives that would strengthen the influence of our country in the wider world. "Estonia 2035" is basically the basis for our decisions for the next 14 years. It is a strategy that supports cooperation between the government and the Riigikogu, which integrates the principles of strategic planning and policy making in all areas and their financing. "Estonia 2035" sets five equally important strategic goals: 1) Smart, active and healthy people living in Estonia; 2) Estonian society is caring, cooperative and open; 3) Estonian economy is strong, innovative and responsible; 4) Estonia is a well-designed, safe and high-quality living environment; 5) Estonia is an innovative, reliable and human-centred state. A caring society is attentive and helpful. In such a society, everyone has the chance of self-realization throughout the life cycle and a necessary support network is provided for this purpose. Everyone must have equal opportunities for self-realisation and participation in society, regardless of individual characteristics, needs, belonging to different social groups and socio-economic capacities and residence. In order to ensure a sustainable population, a comprehensive population and family policy supporting birth rates and parenthood must be developed, which aims to increase the well-being of families and reduce the gap between the desired and actual number of children. Policies must take into account the diversity of needs and preferences of families throughout the child-rearing period. It is important to encourage the development of social attitudes to value intergenerational cohesion and to support the social activity and dignified ageing of older people. The elderly should be supported by the necessary social and health services to help people of solid age to live independently in their homes for as long as possible. It is also important to improve accessibility of public space and services. Local authorities and the state must take into account the principles of an age-friendly environment in building, improving accessibility, urban planning and providing public services. Elderly people need to be more involved in society; they are active people who want and can contribute to the community. The strength of Estonia as a small country is our wise, active and educational faith people. There is a need for constant care for high quality and modern folk education, which is accessible to all and allows them to learn according to their abilities and [close to their place of residence]. The state can do much to ensure that people of all ages can best apply their knowledge and skills. Looking ahead, it is important to ensure a high level and availability of learning opportunities and a smooth and flexible movement between levels and types of education. The education system must aim at the maximum opening of human talent and creativity to support the development of self-governing students. In doing so, it is important to increase the teaching of general and future competences in curricula of different levels and types of education and to integrate more practical experience and practical skills into them in cooperation with employers. The "Estonia 2035" strategy aims to ensure that the Estonian economy is innovative and knowledge-based, using new technologies and business models and flexible forms of work. There are favourable conditions for business R &amp; D and innovation, and our researchers and businesses are cooperating fully with each other. Estonia deserves a competitive knowledge-based society and economy. It is important that the Estonian economic environment calls for work, business start-ups and thus also virtual business, invest, create and test new solutions that would benefit society at large. "Estonia 2035" sets the strategic basic principle that the Estonian economy is responsible for people and nature, so that there is a flexible, innovative and responsible business and a secure economic environment conducive to fair competition. The enhancement of local resources should increase and the use of natural resources should take into account both biodiversity conservation and socio-economic impacts. We have set the goal of achieving climate neutrality by 2050. This also has a very direct impact on the choices that Estonia is facing. In business, greater emphasis must be placed on green technologies and business models and on greater and greening of local resources and other raw materials. Areas and technologies with growth potential must be given special attention. These development needs require long-term investment, which companies are often not ready for because of the high risks involved. We know that investment is strongly dependent on the success of the economy and the global effects. In this context, the State can contribute by sharing the risk of long-term investment with companies and planning public investment especially when the investment activity of companies has been set back. Finally, I would like to thank Jüri Ratas, who has been the initiator of this draft and has been the leader of it for a long time. Under his leadership, this bill has been discussed thoroughly in Riigikogu committees. I would also like to thank the government led by Kaja Kallas, who has further developed this worthy document, and I believe that it will be implemented. Let us be good and support this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U187	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U188	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. If you don't mind, I'd like three more minutes right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U189	Can I have eight, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U190	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good people who watch or listen! I would like it not to be like a speech, but rather a reflection and a discussion with you. I am talking about military defence and internal security, and I am putting the emphasis on the latter. But before I go to that, I'm going to make a few more general observations. In this process, I tended to get the feeling that we had more important documents than content. We have a process more important than a clear objective or direction. No wonder the result is poor. Why is that? There are several reasons. I'll be the first to point out that we are in some ways imprisoned by our own myths. There is a widespread statement in national defence that Estonia is better protected than ever before. That is good news, but good news about propaganda. If we look at the content of this statement, we can see that it is hollow: if yesterday was inadequate, then today is a little less inadequate. Can we call that success? No, you can't. National defence is very simple, in some ways a black and white thing, and when we talk about it, we have to say whether it is sufficient or not. And if not, what is our plan, what is the timetable and what is the cost of achieving this adequacy? Reflecting on national defence, the next thing I want to say is that national defence is a very special area. This is the only area directly related to the country's survival. By further developing my previous line of thinking "sufficient or inadequate national defence," we can say that if national defence is sufficient, then there is also "Estonia 2035," and you, we good people, too, and if he is not enough, may God have mercy on us and hope for happiness. This is serious. I suggest you, good people, look at the memorial plaque in the inner courtyard of the Riigikogu, which has the names of the members of the Constituent Assembly and the first six members of the Riigikogu. The reason why national defence is special is that, unlike political programmes and promises that usually reflect the objectives of some interest groups, defence is in everyone's interest. If a soldier, a policeman or a savior comes to your aid, he will not ask about your worldview, religious beliefs or party affiliation. We know very well a heartfelt example of history when President Reagan was shot and on his operating table he joked that he hoped that all the Republicans would be in the operating room. And who was the lead doctor? It was a well-known democrat who replied that today we were all Republicans. This [holding] makes national defence a very special field. Internal security, which is the first line of defence in national defence, is very clearly linked to this. If this is successful, our Defence Forces will have time to clean up their lines and start performing their functions. If the first line of defense, internal security, is not successful, then the domino effect will occur and the tasks of the Defence Forces will become much more complex. Our proposal, concerning the internal defence reserve, is directly linked to the ability to react immediately in border regions, to react immediately even if there is a major crisis or if there is an unexpected bad event. Life is always much more resourceful than our own plans, so it should be taken into account that situations may occur for which we do not have a good plan. The problem with internal security is, in some ways, that he is a hostage of his own worth. Sectoral institutions are very competent and people are very professional, it is reflected in ratings. But when you look inwards, we realize that we do not see their difficulties just because they have very strong professional, professional pride. Pay systems need to be repaired, pay needs to be made competitive. Today's rescue action brings it back to mind. Today, when we make a decision, we should think about whether the functions associated with the survival of our country can be developed, sufficient or not, according to our strategy, because, as I said, if this is enough, then there is an Estonian state and we are, and if it is not enough, we will have to rely on good luck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U191	Now I'm gonna ask Riina Kikkut.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U192	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. I'm glad we've already come to the confirmation of "Estonia 2035." As has been said during the discussions, I would point out, just in case, that the circle of engagement was indeed exceptionally broad, one can set an example. This document also has a linguistic and visual appearance, so it still stands out in comparison with previous development plans. At the same time, ambition is that the number of strategy papers will be reduced and their consistency increased and the objectives will be cross-cutting. The approach has been very systematic. Development needs and international trends are taken up and what should be done in economic and environmental terms in Estonian government administration, society as a whole, in every person's behaviour. But, as with excellent documents, there is plenty of room for interpretation, and this is demonstrated by the speeches that have been made here. It is very good that concerns have been systematically described and that development needs have been identified. Similarly, [it is good] that the time horizon is longer than we are accustomed to. But it is a framework within which political choices must be made. Siim Kallas spoke of the reduction or fall of the tax burden as something that is set as the objective of "Estonia 2035" as saying that our aim is to reduce the tax burden. It's not really like that. The same sentence, which precedes the numbers of the tax burden, says that the need for public services is not reduced and that the numbers of the future tax burden are simply indicated as an estimate. On the basis of current knowledge, if we continue the current policy, we will continue the current tax system, the tax burden will fall to 32.7% by 2035. It has also been pointed out that this assumption is a continuation of the current situation. This does not preclude different policy decisions, the transformation of the tax system and really raising more money together to cover the need for public services. But in what way? Are you paying taxes? What kind of taxes? This is where politicians need to work and find agreements and compromises. Jaak White spoke well about what proposals were not taken into account. In the debate on the amendments tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, frankly, my fear was that we were going to change this document very much. The background work has been thorough, the circle of involvement has been wide. These wordings, the selection points, have been negotiated several times. Members of the Riigikogu have also repeatedly been able to participate in discussions, give input, comment on interim results, comment on the final result. In the case of a document drawn up in this way, now, just before approval, start making very fundamental changes, recasting objectives, setting numerical targets, does not seem right. There were a lot of opportunities for us to participate; this was a way of getting our thoughts into this document. But this systematic and synthesized document, which we are currently debating, could, after all, pretty much maintain these focussings. It is not what we should be doing now to draw attention here and there with individual changes. And since this is a document of the Riigikogu, we could actually better understand our responsibility for how to prepare, amend and treat this document. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U193	Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U194	If we vote on this strategy today, we need this strategy to work. Progress with surveyors or achievement of objectives [must] be monitored to ensure that the political debate is geared to the identified development needs and concerns. After all, the efforts made on this document will not bear fruit if we do not believe in it, if we do not take this into account, and if we do not place decisions within this framework. I very much hope that "Estonia 2035" is such a good systemic long plan that will affect real decisions, because otherwise it will not be necessary. But I think that this is one step towards greater coordination, a better agreement, so that Estonia can stand out in the world, meet its development needs and move towards this very positive vision, which is formulated in the strategy paper "Estonia 2035." So, power! We need a plan on how to organise monitoring and update the document. Let's bet together and put this document to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U195	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits is now welcome to the chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U196	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Riigikogu! Two aspects are important for the document "Estonia 2035": substantive and formal. In essence, it is understandable that there must be clear strategies on where the country is going, so the purpose of this document is understandable and completely logical. Involvement in the formulation of the objectives is also very important and has been substantial in this document. But the downside of this document is that if you try to set such a long-term goal, it tends to become too general. That is the big problem with this document: it does not meet high expectations; it is slogand. When the first version of this document was introduced.. it was about a year ago, one of the guests on the spot said that if you translated it into English, you could consider it a strategy for any country. Yes, on some points, this document has become better, even much better and more substantial, but the overall substantive problem remains. This problem is encoded in such large strategy papers. This concerned the content of the document. But the more serious concern is formal, and I am talking not just about the form of this document, but about our system of strategy papers at all. A few years ago, it began to be said at political level that strategic documents - strategies and development plans, fundamentals and action plans - had somehow gotten mixed up and that we were going to fix them. As a result, we now have the 'Estonia 2035' strategy, which we should approve in this Chamber, and which is like an umbrella document for other strategy papers. Many development plans are directly linked to this major document, which are also strategic documents, of course. Unfortunately, at their completion, the Riigikogu has a group involved, because we do not vote through them, although they are even more important than the umbrella document "Estonia 2035," because the development plans should have more and more specific content. If we try to draw this system, this scheme, how our strategy papers are located [in relation to each other], then "Estonia 2035" is an umbrella document. That's where the development plans go. If I'm not mistaken, there's about 20 of them. Somewhere in this scheme there are separate fundamental documents, which are also important strategic documents, simply in different areas. They are subject to voting in the Riigikogu, but they do not need to be linked to the strategy "Estonia 2035." In the case of fundamental documents, it is also important that they can come from both ministries and, for example, from Parliament. And now, thanks to this general system, we're going to have a big document rosolje. If you try to look at this situation from outside the state apparatus, you try to explain to the ordinary citizen which strategy papers are basic and which are not, but still do. There are, rather, no practical details and solutions in such documents; they describe greater objectives. That is what we really need to be clear about, in particular, which documents we refer to as strategy papers which describe the main objectives. Once we have this system in place, we can look at the contents separately. Recently, strategy papers have become far too general. There is another important problem. If politicians do not take responsibility and do not want to offer concrete solutions, then these solutions must be formulated by officials. However, officials may not draw up these solutions so boldly, and that is why such general strategy papers are created. Finally, the Isamaa Group supports this strategy, but we recognise that nothing will happen in substance if this strategy is not adopted today, and yet nothing much will happen if we adopt it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U197	Next is Tarmo Kruusimäe. Mr. Kruusimäe, may I ask you to remove this mask? Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U198	Thank you, good vice chairman. Of course, I'm taking off the mask because there are also hearing people among us who read their lips. I will start again, of course, with the quote of the musical song: "Considering all the pros, there will be a minus. " To my little fans, I would like to make sure that this is Belka's song. It's good to find it and put it here. I repeat: "Considering all the pros, there will be a minus. " It is not really the case that today we are talking and hearing only the wailing of the opposition about what did not enter [the strategy]. Quite an interesting and exciting debate was held in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I myself, of course, liked our Amendment 6, which we formulated very precisely, but it was said that a good and novel idea is [to use the word] 'nicotine'. Then why hasn't there been "caffeinated"? They're both similar to the active substance. All the more so because nicotine is being talked about in society more and more, it puts bullets, these little neurons in our heads to work, and there are better thoughts. All the more so as it is recommended for people over 50 years of age, [as it helps prevent] Alzheimer's or whatever his name was, I don't remember exactly. But the very important and interesting moment was that we wanted to have a BMI there. It was said that [instead of] obesity was spoken of. Good folklore, am I overweight? It doesn't seem like it, but my body mass index is one point above normal, and that means I should be monitoring my diet and movement. I wish that [not to be mentioned] not that someone is overweight when visually processed, but is based on a body mass index. But they didn't want that important thing because, as I understand it, this girl, who was an all-knowing knower and who drew knowledge from the source of absolute truth on a daily basis, said it would be enough if she was "overweight." But I personally wish all those people who are in this room or behind the TVs today would see the year 2035. That's why I'm saying watch your body mass index. We have at this point that about one person goes into the composition, and I hope that this [number does not increase]. On other occasions, of course, that's what you're arguing about, isn't it? But this last amendment, that is number 42, we wanted the state to actually, actually affect people's behaviour through tax policy and bring them from risk to healthy lifestyles. Simply put, we imagine that we have well-known orthopedic boots across the country, because some of us may also be lamp-legged, of course we want to be energy-saving, and perhaps [we wish] we have more lamp-legged people, while the kind of sneakers that can run and develop our health are more expensive. A clever country would lower the cost of running shoes that can lower a person's body mass index. That was our idea [how to influence risk behaviour] through tax policy. This strategy is such a general document that one direction could be put here. But I understand the situation is still crude, as that girl said there, and we can debate it. I will open up and say that in Estonia, every person is a miracle and priceless value, even though somebody has calculated that the value of one person is one mill. So, I hope these debates develop. Firstly, the fact that we are talking not only about nicotine but also about the fact that there is caffeine alongside nicotine, but we did not want to talk about it today. And there's sugar, but we don't really want to talk about it today. These are the debates with their mouths on them. What do you say to that? In fact, the process itself was interesting and nice. Like I said, I thought I'd take a blind grandmother to the movies. After all, the idea itself is actually quite interesting and intriguing that it is a movie festival for the blind, where Mikk Mikiver recounts movies. And all the steam went on about taking the blind grandmother to the movies. This will also help in 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U199	Mr. Kruusimäe, may I offer you a mask? Honestly. We just agreed in this Chamber that we would not use certain political messages in this Chamber, and I believe that the text on your mask could be... [[Tarmo Kruusimäe comments about the hall.]] Well, I don't know if it's political, but in any case, it's not quite appropriate for this hall. So if I may ask you to change it, thank you. (Tarmo Kruusimäe: "I apologize for coming in the wrong mask. ") No need to apologize, it is enough for you to change that mask. Thank you! Mr. Ernits, please, your turn!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U200	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if I had the right mask on or not. Anything can be done, and I like intellectual games. It's a 15-year plan. There was a five-year plan in the last lost council time. 21.3 pages for 15 years. 32 rows of population, 56 for life and health, 46 for government, 28 for security. Nice slogans. Who would be against them? Neither am I. "Estonia is home to intelligent, active and healthy people. Estonian society is caring, cooperative and open. The Estonian economy is strong, innovative and responsible. " What else? "Estonia has an environment that takes into account everyone's needs, is safe and is of high quality. " With two hands and two legs. But this morning, or it was already at noon, before I went to the Harju County Court to testify, the report of the National Audit Office, which says this: "Although seven years ago, the Estonian state set the goal of 35% of primary school graduates continuing their vocational training by 2020, the National Audit Office's analysis shows that the educational choices of young people have not changed in the last decade. " A beautiful plan. We are talking about a lifelong learning strategy. But now [clears that] for ten years nothing has changed. Proud plans. And now here's the plan for the next 15 years. Great! This week, the Auditor General and I discussed in the Special Committee on State Budget Control what our options are for me and for all of you who are here and behind the screen or behind me. And what's in there? Janar Holm quoted the speech made by Auditor General Mihkel Oviir to the Riigikogu years ago: "This may be how the government asks for money for a horse, but buys a donkey instead. " The comment goes on so that deciding on the budget has become increasingly confusing, more and more every year. Just as this development plan, 21.3 pages after 15 years, has gone, as the Auditor General said, into ascetic budgets, to discuss budgets. He gave an example of the Ministry of Justice's budget, which is exceptionally ascetic. It contains only EUR 3000 for the purchase of refrigerators. Whatever else is, nobody knows. I mean, at least our kind don't know. In a good case, ministers will know in a good case, but there are certainly officials, several officials. They say there are even double budgets in several ministries: some are understandable, and others are for fools like us, rubber stamps, who accept our development plans with an important face and give interviews. Is that a goal? I quote the Auditor General. According to him, decisions binding the Riigikogu on the government can only be made by the State Budget Act[, not by the explanatory memorandum]. The explanatory memorandum is not binding and, in practice, the government does not always use the money for the purposes described in the explanatory memorandum. That means we're gonna set aside money for a horse, but they're gonna buy a donkey or an elephant. Then [he says] the law has too much generalisation. But this is exactly what [can be said] of this 21.3 page. We are actually talking about the state budget, according to which it will be set where the money goes: horse, elephant, donkey, rabbit or anyone else? Members of the Riigikogu, that is to say me and you, cannot propose amendments. In short, as the Auditor General says, we have been switched off on the amendments to the state budget, because there are no budget lines in the law between which to propose amendments to increase the amounts. Then [he says] the explanatory memorandum is still voluminous, but we are talking about the state budget...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U201	Do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U202	Yeah, if I could have a few more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U203	I'm sure it'll be eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U204	Okay. [The Auditor General says] the information for the various years is not comparable in the explanatory memorandum, the information provided in the explanatory memorandum is unevenly detailed and the Riigikogu is particularly important, so listen, these are the words of the Auditor General of the State that do not play a strategic role in the processing of the budget. And now we fools, rubber stamps, approve of the 21.3 pages of our own beautiful, but relatively empty slogans. If I recall this morning's vocational training strategy, one of the many small ones that have been adopted, then ten years have passed, but no muffle, except Pärnu County, Valga County, Ida-Virumaa and Raplamaa. So here's the point of thinking. We can make this strategy even shorter, haiku saikku I am not a poet, say something with a few lines, for example, saying that "Estonia is alive" or "Long live Estonia." Such a slogan. And then we vote. "Long live Estonia 2035." Everything can be understood by that. Who's against that? It's not me, and I don't think there's anybody, okay? But does that make any sense? Just a lot of work. What was that definition of hand-to-hand? A rich but barren act. It seems to me that this is a beautiful document that contains many good things, such as the proposals of the Committee on Trouble with the Population Crisis, have been taken into account and many other things have been taken into account. But is that necessary? However, we are, as the Auditor General says, rubber stamps, with you, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U205	Now for the speech. Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U206	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I'd say the shortcomings have already been discussed. Many important things, areas have been excluded. I simply mark once again that, when I look at it, it seems to me that in 2035 the role of the Estonian people is still to choose once every four years. There is nothing to say about direct democracy, people's alienation from power is only increasing, and I think that the view of the nation state on the future of Estonia is still very weakly represented here. It is still viewed from a globalist point of view. When you think about who needs a strategy that has been drawn up in this way first and foremost, it seems to me that maybe some officials and some small plan and strategy makers who can then point out that there is a slogan in this big strategy, 'Openness, Openness, Openness'. Unfortunately, yes, there is nothing very good to say. A lot of work has been done, but the result is pretty poor. That's all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U207	That concludes the negotiations. I will close the negotiations and go to the examination of the amendments. The first amendment has been tabled by the Reform Party Group, which has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. The second amendment, tabled by the Group of the Reform Party, was fully taken into account. The third amendment, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, was fully taken into account. The fourth amendment, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, was taken fully into account. The fifth amendment, as well as from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has been fully taken into account. Amendment 6, performed by Tarmo Kruusimäe and Madis Milling, decision of the commission: disregard. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U208	I would like to let the Riigikogu vote on this BMI issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U209	Okay, let's vote on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U210	Ladies and gentlemen, We should start voting on the amendments, but I have information that not all the ambassadors have been contacted. So before we vote on the amendments, we will carry out a presence check. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U211	Ninety-one delegates registered to be present. Now, if no one is able to vote, you will be able to send your voice by e-mail to virgats@riigikogu.ee in three minutes. I will not announce the result of the vote immediately, because it seems that not everyone can vote electronically. But now Amendment 6, tabled by Tarmo Kruusimäe and Madis Milling, and the commission has ignored it. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U212	I'm not gonna announce the vote yet, we're gonna wait for us. Let's give the microphone to Imre Sooääre.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U213	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good President of the Riigikogu. I lost contact and then I got back in. But when I pressed, it showed the opposite result. Can we please repeat this vote? Now I'm logged in, I lost contact. Maybe it was a momentary [trouble].
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U214	Yeah, we're about to start looking for a technical solution. I'll give you a word of advice. I shall cut off the vote and take a technical break for five minutes. Five minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U215	So, it seems that we have overcome the technical problems and can go back to the vote. I shall put to the vote again Amendment 6, tabled by Mr Kruusimäe and Mr Milling, which has been disregarded by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U216	The proposal was supported by 22 parliamentarians, 55 opposed and 2 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 7 is tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 8, tabled by Tarmo Kruusimäe and Madis Milling, has decided to take this into account in substance (with Amendment 7). Amendment 9, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has been fully taken into account. Amendment 10, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, has been taken into account in substance by the Steering Committee (with Amendment 9). Amendment 11, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 12, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, has been taken into account in substance by the Steering Committee (with Amendment 11). Amendment 13, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has been fully taken into account. Amendment 14, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has been fully taken into account. Amendment 15, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has been fully taken into account. Amendment 16, tabled by the Estonian Reform Party Group, has been taken into account in substance by the commission (with Amendment 15). Amendment 17, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 18, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, has been taken into account in substance by the Steering Committee (with Amendment 17). Amendment 19, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has been fully taken into account. Amendment 20, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has been fully taken into account. Amendment 21, tabled by the Committee on National Defence and taken into account in substance (with amendment 20). Amendment 22, tabled by the Committee on National Defence... I'm sorry! Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U217	Thank you. On behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, please vote and support this important proposal of the National Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U218	Got it. I shall put to the vote Amendment 21 tabled by... You wanted proposal number 21, didn't you? [[Henn Põllamaas responds from the floor.]] Number 22, roger that. I shall put to the vote Amendment 22 tabled by the Committee on National Defence, which has been rejected by the commission responsible. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U219	The proposal was supported by 26 MPs, 52 against. The proposal was not supported. Let's keep going. Amendment 23, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 24, which is also tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has been fully taken into account. Amendment 25, tabled by the Committee on National Defence, taken into account in substance (with Amendment 24). Amendment 26, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 27, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, and the Steering Committee has disregarded this. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U220	Since the level of defence expenditure of 2% of GDP does not correspond to the current geopolitical situation, I would ask you to vote on this proposal and, of course, to support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U221	I shall put to the vote Amendment 27 tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, which has not been taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U222	There are 27 parliamentarians in favour of the proposal, 53 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 28 is tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, which has been taken into account in substance by the commission (with Amendment 26). Amendment 29 is tabled by Johannes Kert, which has been taken into account in substance by the commission (with Amendment 26). Amendment 30, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 31 is tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 32, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has been fully taken into account. Amendment 33, tabled again by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 34, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has been fully taken into account. Amendment 35, tabled by the Estonian Reform Party Group, has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 36, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has been fully taken into account. Amendment 37, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has been fully taken into account. Amendment 38, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 39, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the commission has decided to take this into account in substance (with Amendment 38). Amendment 40, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 41, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and the commission has taken full account of this. Amendment 42, tabled by Tarmo Kruusimäe and Madis Milling, the decision of the commission is to disregard it. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U223	I see that this fiscal support for healthy lifestyles is self-evident, and in the Commission the result was already almost fifty: fifty. I therefore hope that the large hall will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U224	I understand it was a vote request. I shall put to the vote Amendment 42, tabled by Mr Kruusimäe and Mr Milling, which has not been supported by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U225	The proposal was supported by 22 members of the public, 59 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. Let's move on. Amendment 43, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 44, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 45, tabled by the National Defence Committee and fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. Amendment 46, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, and the Steering Committee has disregarded this. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U226	Thank you. As the security situation leaves us no other way to close all the gaps in national defence, I would like to ask you to put this proposal to the vote and to support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U227	I shall put to the vote Amendment 46, tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, which has not been taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U228	There are 25 members in favour of the proposal, 54 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 47, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, and the decision of the commission is to disregard it. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U229	Thank you. As internal defence needs to be strengthened and border guards amplified, please put this amendment to the vote and, of course, to support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U230	I shall put to the vote Amendment 47 tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, which has not been taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U231	The proposal is supported by 21 MPs, 59 respondents and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 48, by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, and the commission has taken full account of this. Amendment 49, tabled by Mr Kert, has been taken into account in substance by the commission (with Amendment 48). Amendment 50, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 51, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and partially taken into account by the Steering Committee (with Amendment 50). Honourable Riigikogu! We have examined the proposed amendments to the draft decision on 262. We have received a proposal to interrupt the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the approval of the state's long-term development strategy "Estonia 2035" at second reading. Siret Eagle, please! Please, Siret! [[Silence.]] I don't think he really wants to talk to us. Let's go back to the cut-off proposal. First of all, it's a sergeant. Before going to the vote, Tarmo Kruusimäe has a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U232	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good vice chairman. I did not fully understand whether Siret Kotka, the Chairwoman of the Social Affairs Committee, proposed that it be interrupted. It could take a little bit of work, and it could still go through three readings. But who proposed that it be interrupted, and what does it have to do with Siret Eagle?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U233	No, Siret Eagle didn't make that proposal. Looks like he got on the line completely without his advice. The Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia has proposed the interruption and I would certainly have read it in advance. But first we give the floor to Kalle Grünthal, he has a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U234	Thank you, Mr President. It seems to me that we will soon be able to make a very interesting memo about everyone by turning on a camera that shows the location of a person or what a person is doing quietly in a corner of the room. I have such a suggestion that I think work should still be done at work and come to this hall, not to go around in a car. I have a suggestion that the next working week should be full because, as you can see, such a loose life will make good Riigikogu workers very relaxed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U235	We will definitely discuss this at the Bureau meeting tomorrow. Thank you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, procedure again, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U236	I want to tell my good co-worker, Kalle Grünthal, that I was in the hall, but it turns out I had the wrong mask ahead and it just takes time to get used to the right mask. I have to socialize through this mask because I'm Tarmo Kruusimäe and I want to work, that's what you saw. Since it's gonna take some time to adapt to this new mask, I'm at a distance right now. But I agree with Kalle's thoughts.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U237	Let's try to get to the vote now, or we'll have a two-way call here. I vote on the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to interrupt the procedure 262 of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on "Accepting the Long-term Development Strategy of the Riigikogu "Estonia 2035." Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U238	There are 19 people in favor of the interruption, 69 who are opposed, and one who is impartial. The proposal for interruption was not supported. And now we can make a final vote because it is a two-reading draft. We must vote on whether or not the members of the Riigikogu support this bill. I will read the title again so that everything is nicely correct: the final vote of 262 on the draft Riigikogu decision "Accepting the state's long-term development strategy "Estonia 2035'." Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U239	The draft decision was supported by 71 delegates, 18 against and 3 abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U240	Let's continue on today's agenda. The sixth item is the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of competition law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 325. The rapporteur is Kristen Michal, Chair of the Economic Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U241	[[Remote connection]] Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable viewers and listeners! The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed draft 325. There were two amendments between [first and second reading]. Both received consensus support. The first amendment essentially states that an obligation to recover unlawful State aid does not exist in the event that the European Commission has subsequently declared State aid unlawfully granted by its decision to that effect compatible with the internal market. This issue came up with the amendment of the competition law precisely because we in the Commission were discussing a hypothetical situation, so what happens when the state aid is recovered at first, but the Commission decides to change the rules in the meantime. The Ministry of Finance found a solution to this as an initiator. And the second amendment is quite technical: earlier, the deadline for entry into force was 1 April, now it is 1 July. Following the debate, the Commission proposed to conclude the second reading of procedural decisions. Well, there you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U242	Thank you. There are no questions for the rapporteur and we can start negotiations. But I do not see the wish for negotiations either, so we can then examine the amendments. As we have already heard, two amendments to the draft have been received. Amendment 1 has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 2 has also been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and has been fully taken into account. The commission has proposed that the second reading of draft 325 be terminated. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U243	Today's seventh item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure and the Traffic Act, initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs. The rapporteur is Urve Tiidus, representative of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U244	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure and the Traffic Act was adopted on 18 June last year; the law was initiated by the Legal Affairs Committee. The first reading was in this hall last September. A very brief reminder of what it is. The initiator of the bill was an experiment by the Ministry of Internal Affairs on Estonian roads in 2019, when a new tool to control speeders was tried in cooperation with the Police and Border Guard Board. In particular, instead of paying a fine to passengers, it was offered to choose a 45-minute rest period. An alternative and innovative solution for positive effects on traffic behaviour and the draft as a whole also found a favourable attitude here in the Riigikogu at first reading. The draft came back to the Commission on 15 February. a, two more times after that: 4 and 10 May. I would like to highlight some of the most important points of debate and amendments. Not everything is going to be recounted, the discussions were interesting and thorough. I would also like to start by saying that the topic of a calming stop comes into question at all when the one who exceeded the speed did not exceed more than 20 kilometres per hour. There's no choice left. The Ministry of the Interior, in whose area of government the Police and Border Guard Board would be the immediate implementer of the amendment of the law, considers that the introduction of a calming stop, or action proposed in the draft could take place in general order, i.e. as soon as possible. Amendment 3 to this effect has been finalised for the second reading. Indeed, when the draft comes into force, the police can begin to assess the effectiveness of the new leverage tool in a small amount of experiments. Further development of IT systems is necessary for the large and full implementation of the proposed changes. The parties were very unanimous about the idea of a calm stop: members of the committee, representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Supreme Court, Tartu County Court. There were other ideas, but everyone admitted that there could never be too many explanations to speeders about the risks of speeding. So this is even the human facet of this bill. There was a separate debate on how to challenge the time spent at the resting stop, although let us not forget that a person can make this choice when the law comes into force, this resting stop is not a coercion. Henry Timberg, Head of Department of the Ministry of the Interior, explained to the Commission that a discretionary decision is taken on a very large number of administrative decisions, and that the discretion of the judge is also in determining the amount of the fine, and therefore the Ministry of the Interior does not see discrimination when a person is not always offered an alternative suspension instead of paying the fine. There was also a question of how to ensure that a person felt confident that he had served his sentence in the form of a resting order and that his sentence would not be enforced. That's probably what the police need to see for themselves. The appropriate technical means will be put in place, which is quite numerous, starting with the tabloids with car numbers, times, etc. It's an organisational question. Of course, colleagues in the ministry also had different questions. Einar Hillep, adviser to the Ministry of Justice, expressed the opinion in the Commission that there should be some kind of implementing act that would give people confidence that nobody would say that they did not sit there long enough and so on. But Henry Timberg explained that regardless of whether a table is created or not, a person is given a short procedural decision stating, as an alternative, that if a person accepts a rest stop and waits 45 minutes, he can leave. The decision states the time by which a person can look at it himself. At first, things like the new way naturally raise questions, but there were answers for everyone. It was also a question of warning signs. A good colleague, Tarmo Kruusimäe, asked if there would be any warning signs when someone would make you calm down at that stop. As we all know, police practice with moving signs is that they are also placed in front of moving signs, those that are relocated. Experts also stated that foreign studies have shown that road safety has a much greater impact than signs outside. An interesting topic was raised by Attorney-at-Law Indrek Sirk, who participated in this debate and said that the more different options that can affect a person, the more likely it is that a person will be able to find the right and the right punishment for that person, and that a calm stop may even have a better effect than a financial penalty for a chronic instigator, because a fine can be paid immediately and maybe speeded forward. I don't want to think so. But the idea of a rest stop was supported. There were more complicated questions. For example, I am going straight ahead with the need for the same implementing act, but it was again admitted that implementing decisions and all technical matters can be organised even if the law has already entered into force as a general act. Laura Aaben, adviser to the Ministry of the Interior, added that in 2019, when tests were carried out with this calming stop, there was never a situation where anyone would have left earlier. That is also quite clear, because one who is in a hurry will pay the fine and will not settle down there. There was no problem in that sense. The Committee on Legal Affairs asked for opinions from various parties. The Tartu County Court raised the question whether the enforcement of the measure would be carried out only in places where larger car parks could be located, where speediers could be brought to rest, etc. A lot of technical questions. Of course, this is actually a matter of organisation between the Ministry of the Interior and the police. It is clear that people's health needs, parking facilities, including the possibility of setting up an electronic board, etc. must be taken into account. Maybe you don't even have to worry so much, it's my personal position. The Supreme Court asked whether the infringer has any grounds to demand a calming order or whether it is entirely dependent on the opinion of the ADRer. This depends on how much speed is exceeded and, of course, these calming stops are in certain specific places; however, they cannot be demanded everywhere. There are also costs involved, but the representative of the Ministry of the Interior said that the cost of the bill has been calculated and reflected. Traffic surveillance will continue to be flexible. Speed-measuring activities can only be carried out in places where people can be directed to park. Let us be honest, this same experiment also showed that it is good to have a place nearby where you can drink water or any such practical problems in life. An analogous police operation is considered to be the organisation of blowers. There you go. It is also clear that the members of the Commission were told that there was a need to train police officers, and that is not a difficult matter. The challenge came to light once again at the meetings of the Committee on Legal Affairs. That's one of the troubles. People need to be reassured that the calming measure is properly carried out by the person and no one says afterwards that you went away five minutes early, or so on. The Chancellor of Justice was of the opinion that a cooling-off is a sensible measure, but it is simply necessary to lay down more precisely the conditions so that there are no such doubts. General regulation is currently in place and it will be clear in the future how these technical solutions will be organised. Most of them are, of course, digital. For example, the Anti Semimets said an interesting thing that the idea of a calming stop was sympathetic to him in itself, but from complaints, he thought there was no passage, they would come sooner or later, and asked what evidence could go to court. A representative of the Home Office explained that if a person feels that he has done nothing wrong, he does not have to stay in a resting position. No one's keeping him there, he can challenge the fine later. The whole procedure takes place in the context of a short procedure and there is no record in the criminal record. There were other reflections. As I said before, amendments were also tabled. I mentioned the third one. The other amendments were such. Amendment 1 brings together the amendments concerning the right of appeal of a person in relation to the application of the sanctions. The new wording provides that, in the application of the sanctioning measure, the decision on the short procedure shall also indicate that, if the person who has been released from payment of the sanction has fulfilled the conditions of the sanctioning measure referred to in the decision, he or his representative shall be entitled, within 15 days of receipt of the decision on the short procedure, to require the extra-judicial practitioner to complete the evidence, etc. So there's a chance. The Commission's full membership (Jaanus Karilaid, Marek Jürgenson, Sulev Kannimäe, Uno Kaskpeit, Urve Tiidus, Vilja Toomast, Heljo Pikhof) was in favour of taking this fully into account. Amendment 2 adds paragraph 13 to the provision aimed at informing the person when an extra-judicial practitioner establishes that the person has not complied with the conditions of the measure referred to in the decision taken in the short procedure. If he does, he's about to get a message. The Commission was also a member of this amendment, the same names mentioned above. On 10 May, the Commission met again to make another amendment, Amendment 3, which concerns the entry into force of the law. It is remembered that last year, when this draft procedure started, it was due to be 1 December 2020, but now it will enter into force as usual. All in favour of this proposal were Jaanus Karilaid, Marek Jürgenson, Sulev Kannimäe, Uno Kaskpeit, Urve Tiidus, Vilja Toomast, Anti Seminar and Tarmo Kruusimäe. That's a story. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U245	Thank you. There's some questions for the waitress. Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U246	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! To refresh a bit of memory: was the cost of this table included in this budget, which was one of the major points of discussion? And if so, what was the cost of the board?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U247	If you remember correctly, my fellow Member from the Committee on Legal Affairs, these assessments were not so specific, at least I do not have that in mind and the protocol does not accurately reflect it. It is perfectly understandable that the entire technical and digital solution will be ordered by tender and will result in price formation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U248	Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U249	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! There's such an unpredictable thing as a traffic rage. If the perpetrator decides to choose a rest stop, but still can't stay still for that long and get worse, what happens then? However, if he wants to leave earlier, will the time equivalent of the stand be deducted from the financial penalty? Is it going to be cheaper than that, considering how many minutes he could stand there?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U250	Thank you very much for this question. It's a good psychological question in itself. We don't know exactly what we're doing. But an earlier experience is that those who chose to stop calming also sat down calmly, especially in view of today's opportunities for teleworking, etc. But there is no comparable estimate of time and money in this draft, and I'm pretty sure it won't. If the resting stop is not kept to the end, a notice will be sent immediately and then there will be a wrong penalty for speeding, whatever it is, according to the number of kilometres.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U251	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U252	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Honourable Vice Speaker. Good waitress! My question goes a little bit in the same direction as the questioner, given that those who are big hurryers can rush out of that stop, even though your study may have claimed otherwise. But do you even need this whole tabloid system? It seems very complicated. The easiest thing would be if a person sent whatever minute after a geotold image of his location on the road, and it's been established that he's been sitting by the road that time. Do we have to build a hugely complex system for this once again? Of course, it is possible to do so with apps and other things, but today all images have a geotour built into them, and when a person sends a picture of where he is, it's settled, he's been sitting there for that time. These digital options are still under consideration, I understand. Can you elaborate on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U253	Thank you for your question, Imre Sooäär. Of course, it is a digital and technological solution. On the contrary to you, I think that the board is not very expensive. But in itself, sending such geo-labelled information, I believe that experts will also consider this option. This is exactly the technical solution I can't describe to you right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U254	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U255	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! In addition to rushing on the roads, we are always seeing some drivers, on the contrary, driving too slowly so that dozens of cars form a large queue behind them, causing dangerous situations, because every chance they try to get past this traffic jammer. I didn't make any suggestion because the traffic code states that traffic must not be prevented. But do you think the police should also influence the traffic behaviour of people who, on the contrary, are endangering everyone else on the road by driving too slow?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U256	Thank you very much for this question. The first thing I am saying is that the Commission did not address the issue of a calming down from this point of view. But if you allow me to make a personal statement, I say that the world is like this, that some are slower and some are faster, and we never know what the situation is in anyone's car. Of course, if 90 kilometers per hour is allowed, it is advisable to drive 90 kilometers per hour. Another thing that stands out from the practice of life is that sometimes you have to choose a little earlier outing to drive on the big roads. I don't think there's ever gonna be any punishment for someone driving too slow. Of course, it is also a matter of having a driver's license and knowing all the rules of the road. But you don't know what the future holds.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U257	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U258	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, one more question. Did the Commission consider the same measure for other traffic offences, such as ignoring the stop sign or other typical things that are often done, not just rushing? That, too, would make you think about the rules of the road and whether it has been done the right way. This is, by itself, a very innovative solution, and if I am not mistaken, this solution was proposed in the interministerial competition for ideas of innovation, I think, as I recall from the press. Can't we use a similar thing on other occasions? I mean, it's a sort of sitting down on the side of the road so you can think about what you did, not just when you're in a hurry.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U259	We didn't discuss whether to send the stop sign to a calming stop, but we have a respected Minister of the Interior sitting in this Chamber and you know what the future will be. After hearing all the presentations from the Ministry of Justice as well as the Ministry of the Interior, opinions from the Supreme Court, the Tartu County Court, and the Office of the Chancellor of Justice, it still seems that this calming stop is most suitable for the rushers. Sometimes you need to take some time off. I think it's a great idea. How it is technically accomplished will soon be able to experience when we are speeding. If it doesn't, it'll probably be an accident.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U260	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U261	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Did the Commission discuss the issue of speeding up the public transport lane also extending to bypassing decent passengers and the abuse of public transport lanes? Wouldn't this sin deserve a resting stop, if there was some kind of diversion to the alley or somewhere in your pocket? Shouldn't the police have any more control over the abuse of the public transport lane? As Minister of the Interior, I asked the chief of police repeatedly to do this, but I don't think the chief of police took much of a ride.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U262	Thank you, too, for your question. This question did not arise directly in the Commission, not even in the context of a cooling-off. However, since this draft is based on an experiment of this kind, which can be said to be of some use in controlling traffic and speeders, it was limited to speeders and to what I expressed here earlier in terms of numbers. As far as the lanes are concerned, this is definitely the jurisdiction of the police, and here I give up my comment. Nor was this discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs. But as we know, the world changes all the time, new behavioral traits come, new rules come, etc. Of course, I feel very strongly that a person makes the most right decisions when he does not endanger himself or others. Then the traffic rules will be met, and we'll all be safer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U263	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. We can open negotiations. Tarmo Kruusimäe has expressed its wish for negotiations. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U264	Thank you, good vice chairman. The Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, who is here, the Minister of the Interior and, of course, all the other good fellow fighters-attemates with whom work is done here, as well as the people who watch us through the Internet! Very good bill, all right. Well, about somebody picking it up now or something, I'm saying it's not a scam. The year was 2005, when it was the first in Rabarock Järvakandi. When I voted there, I noticed that some three cyclists were in a horizontal position on the field. The others were a little drunk, and the police had made them sober up there. Later, it had been done with drunken drivers. I must say my congratulations here to you, good Varmo Rein, who you have been doing police business there in Raplamaa and flexibly, relatively flexibly, still approaching those people who really do have force majesties. Everyone's sober drivers, but then no one's sober anymore, and whoever's pretty much looks like something's coming from here a little bit, so they'll make him calm down, sober up. It's a good idea in itself. Because we are, otherwise, perhaps the world's first state because we have all citizens punished almost several times for things. Now for this procedure. It was tested in 2019 and today it is 2021. In 2020, we were introduced. So slowly these Riigikogu mills are actually inevitably grinding. This experiment showed that only two people said they didn't want it, they agreed to a fine, they were in a hurry. That 45 minutes, the police officers answered us, it's enough time, a person doesn't start doing it back, he just agrees with it inevitably. Now, this board. Well, a laptop, where you write down the driver's name and time and show it to a person, would be enough. There is no need for large IT solutions. Now, the Chairman of the Commission and also the Minister for the Interior, if an agile solution is proposed, point 1 should be that clause: it must be compatible with the already existing system. Otherwise, these ponytail boys are gonna say I made such a good program, but here, give me a mill, then I'm gonna connect him to some other stuff, that wasn't before we talked about it. Always have to be compatible. Good ambassadors! Tomorrow we're going to have our own AstraZeneca. Do we have a tabloid in there that we have to sit for 15 minutes? It's on paper! How did they go to Vigala Sass? They pulled some number with a marker on their hand! We don't need those tabloids. If we want to do something, if we want to do something agile-innovative, we're gonna do it and we're gonna do it. That's exactly it. In America, they say, "Wow! Very good, and let's do it! " But Estonians will think about these buts why we cannot do this. Then we're gonna go into space, we're gonna need some tabs, and then we're gonna need somebody to drink. There's no need to rush! You don't need to rush, you don't need that tabs, and then you don't need that water. People relax differently. Yeah, some say I talk upset, some need something else to calm down. Let's not cling to those words. Otherwise, we could say that I don't know if someone like Federico Fellini in "Amarcord," where Uncle Teole needed something else to calm down. It was now for those people who are still investigating. And, of course, quote: "Kiss a little penguin, oh big penguin, / and a little kiss big. Let live love, cold as vodka, because we desire nothing else! Let peace be calm, or stormy peace, or contentious peace! Let's be calm, let's shut up. " I support the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U265	Thank you. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U266	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. I am not talking about the content of this amendment. In my opinion, the process through which we have reached the fact that the draft is in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu is remarkable. Ministries worked together, was such an innovation team, an idea was chosen that could change people's traffic behaviour. It is not about collecting the amount of the fine, but about achieving a change in behaviour. Experimented, experimented. Now the result of this experiment has come to an amendment to the law. I hope that, in the public sector, this type of, really goal-oriented things, interesting solutions to change people's behaviour, it will be a matter of road safety or health or lifelong learning, there will be more experimentation, experimentation, and we will be able to put these good ideas into the framework of the law and actually apply them, whether on a board or with water. So the power and more of this type of solutions! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U267	Thank you very much. There is no further wish for negotiations. We can go to the examination of the amendments. So there are three of them. The first has been submitted by the Committee on Legal Affairs and has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. Amendment 2 has also been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and they themselves have taken full account of it. Amendment 3 has been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and has been fully taken into account. We have also examined the amendments. The lead committee has proposed to conclude the second reading of draft 216. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U268	Today's last item is the Internal Security Development Plan 2020 has 2030. The rapporteur is Kristian Jaani, Minister of the Interior. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U269	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will give an overview of the internal security development plan, which we will agree on the objectives and lines of action to keep Estonia safe for the next decade. Of course, gladly, before I go to STAK, I'd also like to talk to you about this calming down, talk to you for a while. A very interesting and very fun idea, and I think it is a great pleasure to see such a consensus on such an innovation project. So thank you all very much. But then let's talk about the internal security development plan, short for STAK. We started the development plan several years ago, and within that time, hundreds of public authorities and NGOs have helped to understand security challenges and solutions. For example, discussions took place in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs and county development organisations in all Estonian counties in 2018 and 2019. People from security councils, public health and internal security institutions, interest groups, as well as several city and parish leaders participated in these discussions. We got different ideas, we were convinced that security was meant much more widely than just preventing threats and offences and solving events that have already taken place. People's well-being, including socio-economic issues, the well-being of the home area and wider community activities play an important role in influencing the sense of security and also in solving security problems. Therefore, the plans for the development plan presented today are not enough to achieve the objectives of internal security, but also the success of the various areas of state life and, above all, synergies. I know that the goals set in the Internal Security Development Plan will certainly contribute to this. It is of great value that almost several hundred people have participated in the development plan. They contribute to the security of their daily work and leisure, even if they are not directly aware of it as community activists, for example. In the development plan, we have placed a person, his life, his health and property, and a safe living environment at the heart of security. Our goal is for people in Estonia to feel safe and help themselves to be safe in their home and in the wider country, and also to have a professional and modern authority for internal security in our country. But as I said earlier, it is not just a matter of one authority. Prevention will be very important in the next ten years, but unfortunately not all accidents can be prevented. Therefore, swift and wise help must always be guaranteed. The most important changes needed in the next ten years to create a safe Estonia, we have focused the reference on the main focus. Firstly, designing a safe and proactive living environment. Second, quick and professional help. Third, solid internal security. Fourthly, effective population management. Fifthly, smart and innovative internal security. Innovation was also discussed here on the previous item. The major changes that need to be made in these areas over the next ten years relate to the involvement of people, targeted prevention, crisis preparedness and development of information and communication technology capabilities. Thus, the range of topics is extremely wide. This is due, inter alia, to the fact that the internal security development plan has not only addressed security in the light of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and internal security authorities, but more generally. In making Estonia safer, it is important that these issues are resolved by public authorities, local authorities, the private sector and, of course, all Estonian people together. Before I introduce the major challenges of internal security and the lines of action of the next decade, I would like to begin by pointing out that we are actually in a very good starting position. The people of Estonia feel safe. 92% of the Estonian population in the public opinion surveys carried out in 2020 found Estonia to be a safe country for living. Just as much as he thought their neighborhood was safe. According to the statistics for 2017, Estonia has a high level of security in the European Union. We want to keep our sense of security at least at the same level over the next ten years, but we realise that this is certainly a serious challenge in a constantly changing world. We want to achieve the greatest changes in reducing injury deaths. About ten years earlier, the number of injury deaths has fallen by more than 40%. However, more people die of injuries in Estonia than in the European Union on average. The risky behaviour of men is worrying; men are killed four times more than women because of their injuries. The rapid response of both the ambulance and the rescuers, but also the skills and courage of loved ones and the community to intervene at the right moment, will play an important role in preventing such tragedy. Many accidents and injury deaths occur due to wrong behaviour, such as excessive alcohol consumption and careless smoking. For example, in 2020, more than half of the victims of fire and water accidents were intoxicated and most were men. Nearly 90% of the killings and murders were committed by drunken people. It is important and positive that more than 90% of people in Estonia consider preventive behaviour to be important. Our desire is that this attitude be reflected even more in making real choices. There is also room for improvement in people's knowledge and skills. Although most people understand their role in increasing security, there are considerably fewer people who consider their own willingness to help themselves or others in the event of an accident to be sufficient. It has a confidence of 61% of the respondents. To sum up, I note that the number of injury deaths has decreased with regard to issues where there has been systematic prevention for years, such as fire deaths. Prevention is necessary in addition to internal security and public health in other areas. The development plan will contribute to more and more effective prevention at school, workplace, community, as well as at home and in the family. Targeted prevention activities, evidence-based and knowledge-based prevention programmes and information will play an important role here. Cooperation at local level is particularly important in addressing security issues. Through various cooperation and prevention networks, we can develop suitable tailor-made solutions for specific regions, i.e. we need to be flexible. In the development plan, we have set out to further develop and support such networking, as well as to contribute to community initiatives. Once again, the focus of security is always on man, his life, his health, his property. Protecting them depends primarily on everyone, but also on the community and the country. This is why in the development plan, on the one hand, we have paid attention to maintaining the state's capacity and responsiveness and, on the other hand, to ensuring that people themselves have the security and readiness to contribute to a safe living environment (e.g. volunteers). A public opinion survey on internal security carried out in spring 2020 revealed that 17% of respondents had participated in some voluntary activities related to security during the previous 12 months. One in five Estonian residents aged 15 to 49 would be interested in becoming an assistant police officer, volunteer rescuer or marine rescuer. Unfortunately, many people who are interested in volunteering do not do so for various reasons. In order to increase people's participation, as well as their ability to help themselves or others in the event of an accident, we plan to do more prevention and explanation work and to offer more versatile opportunities for engagement. In 2020, volunteers had the opportunity to support, for example, the national hotline 1247 in its activities. 181 volunteers were involved in this grateful work. Volunteering related to security is certainly to be further diversified, for example by creating opportunities to contribute more to prevention. As I said before, prevention and the contribution of people themselves will be more and more important in the next decade, but, of course, the country's ability to react must also be maintained. Not all accidents and dangers can be prevented, and people must always receive appropriate and quick help if they are in danger. In the development plan, we have set out to provide disaster and threat response services at least at the current level. This may sound less ambitious, but the reality is the opposite. Maintaining the current level requires innovation in technology, technology and human training. The fact is that in providing internal security services, we face a number of challenges on a daily basis. The issues of dislocation, urbanisation, population ageing as well as the shortage of internal security staff will guide us to look every day for new opportunities that will help to automate and improve the state's services. For example, it is planned to develop a procedural information system for the Police and Border Guard Board in the near future and to switch to a full digital procedure for offences. Developments supporting data-based management at strategic, tactical and operational levels, including risk monitoring and forecasting, will help to respond more effectively. Service design, behavioral sciences, artificial intelligence and big data are keywords that help us find smarter solutions. We are now working to improve innovation capacity, but we will work hard to achieve this in the coming years. All this so that the skills of our people and the logic of our institutions' development activities support innovation. In ten years' time, we want to be in a situation where the innovation projects we have launched have made services more people-centred and effective and have helped to save the state's costs. The extension of cooperation between the Police and Border Guard Board and local authorities, for example by granting local government law enforcement rights to carry out existing tasks, will help to improve the response to accidents and threats. We also need to find ways of keeping our employees and volunteers. Of course, there is a lack of working hands in almost every area of life in Estonia. The field of internal security is no exception. In the development plan, we have seen solutions to improve both the working environment and development and career opportunities, but we cannot get past the issue of pay. In 2025, the minimum wage for police officers, rescuers and frontline workers of the Alert Centre could be at least 1.2 Estonian average wages. In order to keep salaries competitive, the agencies will, where possible, restructure their activities, but additional resources from the state budget will continue to be needed. In the coming years, we will face the challenge of many police and rescue workers retiring, and we must offer competitive wages to new entrants. In addition to keeping workers, there is a need to ensure that new frontier workers grow on top. This requires, among other things, the creation of additional study places at the National Defence Academy in the near future and a review of the number and location of study places at the Academy. In the development plan, we also focus on issues relating to population management, i.e. migration, citizenship and identity management. Estonian citizenship and migration policies and identity management will continue to be based on the interests of the Estonian state and society in the next ten years, including the need to ensure public order and state security. In the area of migration, we encourage the arrival of foreigners with high added value to society in Estonia, but on the other hand we are dealing with preventing and preventing illegal stays in Estonia. From developments in the near future, I would point out, for example, the introduction of a technological solution that will allow migration monitoring to be carried out even more on a risk-based basis. More specifically, it will help to prevent and prevent irregularities in the rules of stay, residence and employment in Estonia. The introduction of an automated biometric identification system database, or ABIS, is also worth mentioning. Internal security is undoubtedly also an important area of the Internal Security Development Plan. In order to maintain this, we are working to improve both the protection of constitutional order, the fight against serious and organised crime, border security and crisis preparedness. In view of today's situation, I will focus more on crisis preparedness. In the development plan, we have planned activities in this area to improve the preparedness of the population, to increase the continuity of the general framework for institutions and to manage crises in any emergency situation. More detailed actions to improve crisis preparedness in different areas, such as action to prevent and combat the spread of epidemics and communicable diseases, should be more detailed in the areas of ministerial responsibility. As I have already said, one of the lines of action we are focusing on is, above all, to manage and improve the people themselves in different crisis situations. Information activities, training materials and codes of conduct, as well as the integration of the subject into general education, are certainly of great help here. The preparedness of institutions and local authorities for crises must also be improved. To solve them, we must ensure that our vital services work at any time and anywhere in the corner of Estonia. In 2020, bottlenecks in crisis resolution were mapped and preparations were made to amend the Emergency Act in order to modernise the organisation of crisis management, to close the gaps in the organisation of crisis management and to clarify the preparation of the population for crises. The direction has now been taken to draw up a new draft law, under the direction of the State Chancellery, which combines the topics of the National Defence Act, the Emergency Act and the Emergency Status Act. For example, it is planned to clarify the crisis management tasks of ministries and agencies, so that the responsibilities of institutions are more clearly defined and each institution has a better understanding of its role. In addition, it is necessary to specify the format for the cooperation of crisis committees and the governance arrangements in the country during the crisis. There are certainly gaps in the organisation of crisis management. Solutions need to be found when this new law is being drafted. By amending the law, we also specify the arrangements for preparing residents for crises. At present, there is a central actor in prevention of the preparation of the population for crises, with the main responsibility for organising cooperation between institutions and for developing and managing central communication channels. We can see that it should be the Rescue Board. It is very important that every institution and company should assume responsibility and properly comply with the obligations under the Emergency Act. It is not necessary to say that, in improving the capacity to prepare for crises, we always prefer good preparation and crisis exercises, not the crisis itself. Finally, thank you once again to all those who have helped to draw up this development plan. We have received a lot of good proposals and ideas from the discussion with the Committee on Legal Affairs of the Riigikogu and from the political groups in the past, on which basis we will complement the development plan before finalising it. The development plan will help us to keep a firm target in the future on these diverse issues, but will leave enough flexibility to keep up with the challenges and opportunities that change year-on-year and to adopt different smart solutions. Finally, in terms of inclusion, I also mention the voluntary representative organisations that have been very helpful in making the internal security development plan the way it is at the moment. There will certainly be further proposals from them before we finally approve the internal security development plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U270	Thank you very much. Now it's time for questions. I would like to point out that we have two presentations: first from the Minister and secondly from the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Each member of the Riigikogu has one oral question for both rapporteurs. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U271	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. There is one chapter in this development plan that you have also mentioned, which is about population management, which is, frankly, an extremely unsuccessful term. I thought the Ministry of the Interior was serving the people on the basis of its Latin name as well. Now it has been reached that the population has been managed. I would advise you to abandon this term in the course of further proceedings. But within this chapter, citizenship policy is a topic where there is quite a few words. It is said that you can see that the situation could be better with regard to the number of persons of undefined nationality. Consequently, I have a question. You said that citizenship policy must be in the interests of the Estonian state. Does today's situation, where we have 70,000 persons of undefined nationality and nearly 100,000 third-country nationals, serve the interests of the Estonian state? Do you support the Central Party's proposal to give hall passers citizenship without exams?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U272	Thank you for your question. First of all, a very good comment and a proposal on the word 'population management', I will certainly take it from here. As far as the issue of citizenship is concerned, my position, as well as the view of many others, is that when we talk about minors and children, it must be as easy as possible for them to obtain citizenship in Estonia. While we are talking (this is not a good term) about the owners of a grey passport, the process of obtaining their citizenship has been very simplified over the years. Of course, the ideal option should be that Estonian citizens live in Estonia and that there are as few or no people of undefined citizenship as possible. So on this, I think, in the coming years, there will certainly have to be a great deal of discussion and very much debate. Well, I guess there's been a lot of different billing around here. So I'm looking forward to it. I think that a social debate on this subject is most welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U273	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U274	Thank you. From this previous question: do you support the possibility that all children born in Estonia, whose parents have lived permanently in Estonia since at least 1991, will receive Estonian citizenship by simplified procedure? This is also the case when their parents are Russian citizens.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U275	Thank you for your question. As far as I know, the latest amendments to the Citizenship Act provide for a simplified application for citizenship for such children.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U276	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U277	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. No, we have discussed this in this Chamber, but the result is that about three children have acquired this citizenship, but as long as they cannot give up their citizenship of the Russian Federation and minors cannot do so, they will also not be granted Estonian citizenship. You'd have to work on that. But I will now continue on population management. I'm asking more, not just about the kids. If the goal is to have citizens living in Estonia, and to reduce the number of people with grey passports, will you support the Central Party's proposal to grant citizenship to all people with grey passports without examination?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U278	Thank you for your question. At the moment, it is difficult for me to answer directly. This would certainly require further analysis and review. Once again, over the years, many simplifications have been made for people with undefined citizenship, so that it would really be easier for them to obtain citizenship. In any case, I agree with the issue of minors that it should be as simple as possible for children born in Estonia to have citizenship. There shouldn't be a very complicated process here. I'll come back to what I said before. I think that the fewer people with undefined citizenship in Estonia, the better the situation is.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U279	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U280	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Everything you're saying here is very beautiful, I really will say it without any irony. But you said the goal is to keep the level of internal security at least at the current level. That's not possible. I did not hear from you a word about the fact that the government of which you are a member reduced the budget of the Ministry of Internal Affairs by tens of millions over the next four years and plans to lose special pensions for the Defence Forces and the PBGB. That means, in fact, let's be honest, leaving the rescuers and policemen for hundreds of rescuers and policemen in the worst-case scenario. This development plan has thus become a completely meaningless slogan that has nothing to do with reality. What is the point of this, and what are you going to do to ensure that this development plan overlaps with reality so that it happens?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U281	Thank you for your question. The question's upset and the focus is very correct. When we talk about the budgetary strategy adopted by the country, indeed, the areas of government or administration of all ministries have jointly and severally agreed that the running costs must be reduced. However, I very much hope that these forecasts, which have spoken of our economy being on the rise, are the right ones. With regard to the adoption of the state budget in the autumn, it will be adopted in the Riigikogu, I am a bit more optimistic and I hope that we should not talk about it in such tones in the autumn. When we talk once again about the internal security development plan, indeed, it is also about the budget. Basically, the 11-year internal security budget is EUR 4.1 billion; it is an 11-year budget in the field of internal security or government. If we look at these additional needs, I, as a 'process' of the country's budgetary strategy, have requested additional resources of 1.6 billion. These additional requests included, for example, the increase in the wages of rescuers and policemen, etc. I'm certainly not gonna give up the fight. The challenge is very great, the right thing is pointed out. However, the internal security development plan is very important as a document and sets out very specifically targeted thoughts for a long time. It's a cooperation document, it's not just about the Home Office government. It's a cooperation document that talks about a lot of partners. I don't know if I heard correctly, but just in case, I mention that the special pension system for police officers has actually been abolished earlier. The system of special pensions for police officers disappeared on 1 January 2020. For those people who entered [the police system] after 1 January 2020, the special pension system was no longer in force for all those who were at work at that time, the application and are still in force.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U282	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U283	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! We have repeatedly talked about an unsolved power gap during an armed conflict, and we have also talked about how to link border guards to border protection tasks that are, in fact, acceptable to everyone. How it's gonna work, it's up to us. You are also saying that this development plan is a joint development plan, not only for the Ministry of the Interior, but also for other authorities. It is this side of the border defence that is, in fact, a joint project with the Ministry of Defence, how to say. But I've heard lately that the side of the border guard has remained like an orphan and is no longer wanted to deal with it, even though it has been said from your mouth that it is still right and...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U284	Time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U285	... a purposeful solution. So, what's it gonna be like?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U286	Thank you for your question. I can confirm that the situation in which border surveillance should go across the border, and that in this case, the role of those of our people who are in charge of border surveillance today, is still the point of discussion and discussion with the Ministry of Defence as to what these tasks should be for our border guards and our expectations for them in this situation. So, dear colleague, I cannot say in any way that this issue has been rejected. This is still being dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U287	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U288	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I read some strange observations in the explanatory memorandum that police services are provided regardless of sexual orientation. Such information is inside the material, but at the same time, the question of border surveillance has arisen in the context of the pandemic. At present, the coalition has buried the domestic defence reserve. Maybe we should look into the more serious problems and ask how longer-term border guards are guaranteed in the event of serious crises, not just on the basis of the Defence League. So where do these reserves come from? We have learned a very serious lesson. It should be there, not that there is a police service because of or despite sexual orientation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U289	Thank you for your question. The internal defence reserve has not been abandoned in any way as a focus; it remains important to me. For myself, I'm going to put it very simply. It also simply means that we must have a larger number of volunteers and there are volunteers who, in a crisis situation, are going to help border guards. It has still been taken into account that when we talk about border surveillance in a crisis situation, very good defence allies, who have already done so before, will help. So under the internal defence reserve (or whatever we call it), we mean more and more trained, with social guarantees, better training, training, training etc. We continue to have this goal. After all, in the Internal Security Development Plan, the ten-year target is that, if 17% of the population is now willing to contribute or are already voluntarily contributing in some area, in ten years' time, this percentage could be 30%. When we talk specifically about the number of auxiliary police officers, the increase in this number in five years could be over 600 already. From a long perspective, if we are really talking about the crisis situation and the resolution of crises, we have seen the need for internal security volunteers of around 6000. This is our long view of increasing the number of volunteers. One of their important roles in addition to object protection is, for example, helping to guard the border. But in short, yes, the goal of increasing the number of volunteers in the Internal Security Development Plan has not been left out in any way. This is one measure of how we can better monitor our borders in a crisis situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U290	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U291	Thank you. Good Minister, thank you for this review and for the proposed development plan. This is certainly very important and very interesting. My question is that there is no one very important problem, as a separate emphasis, that affects internal security, namely criminal organisations of the mafia type. This is a problem that actually exists in every country around the world. Unfortunately, there is no country that is completely untouched by it. So I hope that you are different from the predecessors who have always tried to slip over this in some way, perhaps talking about criminal activities, but not about those organisations that are behind it and who can be dangerous to our country and to the functioning of our society. Have you thought that we could make a separate register with a picture of all the types of criminal organisations of the Mafia, so that we can get an overview each year, for example, in the form of a report, who is working in our country and what they are doing? Maybe we have a criminal organization in another country that doesn't do criminal acts here, but he's here. What do you think of that? Could this register be mentioned here, and what are we going to do in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U292	Thank you for your question and thank you for pointing out a very important subject. I have no intention of slipping over this in any way and why: if you google it, you can see that a lot of people have talked about experts both on the police side and on the public prosecutor's side, which is the situation we have in Estonia. This has not changed much in recent years. When we talk about organised crime, there are still about 20 criminal associations in Estonia that are constantly under the supervision of such, say, one. If we're going to say which one of them might be a little more dangerous, then seven or eight could be one that's a little more dangerous. Indeed, this has not changed in recent years. What is positive and what has been a change is that several leaders of organised crime have been convicted in recent years, and a very large part of them are currently in detention. It also shows that the apology of these organisations, that I say this, that the influence of the associations is quite well suppressed by the good work of the police. If we look at the last few years, for example, in the last two years, 14 things have gone to court that have affected organised crime. So this topic is very important. As far as the issue of register is concerned, it can be said in the same way that this register exists in the sense that, for those people who have been convicted, this information is entirely public. Of course, if we are talking about intelligence or confidential information, there is no way to make it public in this form. But I can certainly assure you that this information exists both in Interpol and in Europol, who communicate internationally, with other countries. It is certainly possible to find all these different links if organised crime has these links outside Estonia. While there may still be organised crime, although they do not want to pay much attention to these characters, their field of activity continues to be largely related to drug crime, so-called white-collarism and there are also frauds. When we talk about money, when we talk about criminal revenues and take as a basis, for example, purely drug trafficking and drug-related crimes, there are about 30 million criminal proceeds from retail sales. 30 million! Experts say it's about 10% of what it really is. So when we think about what this could actually be, we are talking about EUR 300 million, which again shows how important all that is to detect and obtain criminal income is. When we talk about criminal revenue or how much criminal property has been seized last year, for example, this amount is over EUR 26 million. This property has not yet been taken as so-called proceeds of crime, but it is currently seized by the state. This shows once again how much these sums are actually going to be. It also shows that this is certainly not all criminal revenue or criminal property. This is a place where both internal security authorities and internal security authorities must contribute more and seek smart solutions. The people of organised crime, criminals at all, are very clever and tracking property is often very difficult. In this sense, I would certainly mention the amendment to the regulation of communications data, which, as a result of the Court of Justice of the European Union, is on the table as a solution. At the same time, I am pleased that solutions are being sought in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, such as this communication data subject versus organised crime. It is a very effective tool to be even more successful in the fight against organised crime, the pursuit of property, the recovery of proceeds from crime, etc. I hope I gave you an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U293	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U294	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, manager. My question is about recent events and it is about the future as well as this development plan itself. Is and how the Internal Security Development Plan envisages the possibility of a proportionate and appropriate use of police forces in all circumstances and always in a uniform manner, regardless of whether they are public democratic protests by citizens or a public tribute to the memory of the troops who occupied Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U295	Thank you for your question. This theme definition is not so much related to the internal security development plan, but in fact the principle of proportionality is something arising from the law of law and order. This, of course, must guide the police in their day-to-day activities, whether it is the simplest, most routine, if any, the challenge of patrolling or whether it is an activity involving public gatherings. So police action must always be proportionate. This is a requirement that, at the level of the law, comes from the Law Enforcement Act, it is not something that is stated in the Internal Security Development Plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U296	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U297	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President of the sitting. Honourable waitress! We often finance capacity developments in Estonia through reforms, at least we try to do so. If we look at the area of internal security, you have come from the inside of the system, then there have been repeated claims to Parliament that the underfunding has accumulated year after year and the problems are growing in the context of funding in this area. My question to you is whether, in addition to digital reform and digital solutions, there are other sources that can be covered within this area or, in fact, your message to Parliament is a lasting and permanent message that, ladies and gentlemen, put pressure on and find additional resources in the budget to develop and keep this area alive.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U298	Thank you for your question. There's always too little money, there's no question about it. When we are talking about internal security, as I mentioned earlier, the entire internal security development plan, the so-called 11-year budget, and also our additional requests, amount to 1.6 billion. Of course, there is always something that can be done with internal reforms, that is not a question at all. But there's a border somewhere ahead, and there's just no way to do it any more with internal [resources], without the person on the street who has to get this service when he's in trouble, maybe he won't get it anymore, he won't get it so fast or so operationally. So, of course, I always agree that internal reforms and ideas on how to place existing money in a different way are extremely important. You mentioned that this digital issue could not be addressed here, but, however, the best innovative solutions can still come from the digital field, and this is extremely important. This cooling-off, which we talked about here earlier, is such a simpler example where there may be very large and large digital solutions that are not needed. But in the past, we have introduced the fact that it is easy, for example, in a self-service environment to apply for an identity document or to present our own biometric data in the services of the PBGB. Maybe you don't have to go to a person anymore, but you can go to a biometric kiosk and you can take a picture of yourself, prints, give me a signature sample. These are all things that save a lot of human working hours. So, to sum up, of course, this amount of extra needs is a piece larger than what we have today.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U299	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U300	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Three items ago we addressed strategy 2035. Then the Centre Party, which you represent as a minister, and the Reform Party voted down our proposal for improvement. I will read it literally: 'We create a crisis reserve for police and border guards and provide border guards with the necessary capabilities, preparedness and legal basis for military protection tasks in border areas. " It is wonderful that you promised that you would fight for your responsibilities to be fulfilled. But I'm asking you what you're gonna say.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U301	Thank you for your question. First of all, 'Estonia 2035', in addition to this great strategy, STAK has indeed been built up, and they have not followed a separate path in any way. When I come back to the reserve, the national reserve or the crisis reserve, or whatever we call it, I once again assure you that we are actually talking about a large number of volunteers. Here, the Ministry of the Interior has no obstacles to further recruiting and employing volunteers, which can still be done now. The question is simply how to better recruit these volunteers to help them. If we look at the number that is willing to volunteer in itself, so many people say that they would like to come, but also give reasons for [why this is not possible], whether it is a lack of time, whether physical attempts are such as may not be possible, or whether age is also given as an example. But once again: in fact, a larger number of volunteers in the longer view of performing different tasks are not an obstacle. Probably, yes, it is not always reasonable to give specific tasks or rights to legal volunteers because volunteers act on a free will basis. It is certainly very important here to look at and assess the rights of volunteers that they can exercise.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U302	Uno Kaskpeit, please! Uno, we can't hear or see.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U303	[[Remote connection]] Do you hear me now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U304	I can hear you now. Please, yes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U305	Here's the question. I understood your response to the size and use of the police forces in such a way that large police forces with guns and dogs were brought out against their people before the Riigikogu, while on 9 May in front of the Russian monument, where there were more people than were allowed to be there, the police were not able to see at all. Maybe four, five, or six in a shrub passport. How do you figure a hundred?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U306	Thank you for your question. There's a big difference between action and tactics when the police come out of sight. Some public gatherings are those where there are very specific organisers and stewards, there has been a cooperation experience with the same organisers in several previous years, and this cooperation in the planning process has always been one where suggestions from the police, as well as from local authorities, have always been heard. This has been the case, for example, with the public gatherings that have taken place on the way to Cemetery. If you take a public gathering aside, where there is no organiser, where there are no stewards, then this is the situation where the police have to choose a tactic where they are more visible. He's taking on the role of steward himself. So this is where the big difference comes from. I can assure you that when the great crowds gather, the police will always be ready. This was actually the case for different events across Estonia on 9 May. How many of them were there to see directly is the question of tactics. [This depends on] what previous experience has been with the same organisers and how either the police proposals or suggestions from the local government have been taken or how the general plan has been acted upon.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U307	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U308	[[Remote connection]] Good Vice-President of the Riigikogu Martin! Good Minister Kristian! For starters, I'm a very happy person. For over 15 years, I have been able to engage in very, very emotional and very nice activities by volunteering to rescue Rõuge. Thank you, Minister, for your part in our affairs and for helping us. I have a very good young savior in Rõuge, my own son, who is 16. In recent years, my soul's little sense of concern has arisen because my son is increasingly telling me that he wants to be a professional savior. But I know exactly the men who work 24 hours a day after they rest, they work another job to feed their family, because it's just that the savior's salary doesn't come out. What do I tell my son?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U309	Thank you for pointing out a very important subject. As you all know, today's professional, professional rescuers have put a stop to work to bring this exact same thing to the attention. Those who work as professional rescuers have a very large number of savior's minimum wage, EUR 1068, which can reach less than 1000. This will make them work in a number of other jobs. I'm sure it's a very big challenge for me, but I hope it's for the whole government. The fact that people continue to work as professional, professional rescuers shows how big fans they are and how important it is for these people to be able to help someone and save someone. It's extremely important, but you can't just do professional rescue work from the "Fanish" to infinity. It is really very important that we can really value our saviors and offer them a decent salary. What they receive as a minimum is certainly not what was the original objective, which was the 'ideal plan'. It provided that by 2025 the person entering the organisation would be the savior of a minimum wage of EUR 2024, and the increase in wages for the following year alone should have been ideally 18%. Right now, yeah, from this big dream plan, we're getting a little backwards. However, the expansion of the payroll fund in the area of Homeland Administration is coming up. Of course, within this sum, you can do one comma of another, but that's a long way from what the real goal is.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U310	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U311	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I'll come back to that 9th of May and to the April demonstrations. It is absolutely inappropriate to start telling us how the police did everything they had done in the past, worked with the organisers, etc. We know that the previous times had not been preceded by the situation we had in April, where dogs, weapons and riot police, or rapid reaction police, came out and literally terrorized peaceful people. This situation had not previously been comparable and contrasted. When we were assured that the police were following the rules and based on the threat assessment of the Health Board and the Special Branch, we were just lied. On 9 May, no compliance with the rules was observed, no pills were taken away, people were not driven away by power, [no] 2 + 2, they were allowed to gather, amount stand, etc. And now it's said that in the meantime, conditions were relaxed. In short, what I want to ask you is: how can you trust the Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board, who has lied to the public, to members of the Riigikogu and probably to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U312	Thank you for your question. I have publicly stated and justified my trust in the Director-General of the PBGB, Elmar Vaher. When we talk about the previous experience, I meant everything that has happened in the city of Tallinn on the date of 9 May in previous years. Since I personally have been managing these activities for quite several years, I can very well appreciate the risks associated with the activities of 9 May, know what this cooperation has been and how this cooperation has been respected. I would point out that it was also registered as a public event. On the spot, the advice of the Health Board was quite well received, a large number of protective masks were distributed, as far as I know, and were accepted by the people. In this sense, the counsel given to people on the ground was quite well received. So just these two events were different in nature, and I also explained in advance where the difference comes from.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U313	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U314	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, first of all, thank you for presenting the internal security development plan and answering questions. Just as the development plan looks to the future, my question concerns young people. Is your heart satisfied as a member of the government when the country takes half of the interest in young people [from the money] back? Of course, all the responsibility for the activities of interest lies with the municipalities, but if [this measure] has been agreed in advance and so many young people have been given the opportunity, thanks to this measure, to participate in the activities of sports, music or fine arts, are you really carefree, even though young people remain on the street, hanging out, forming gangs? After all, the risk of them entering the criminal path is far greater than for those who are involved in such activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U315	Thank you for your question. Young people, the future of young people, the behaviour of young people are extremely important to me. I think there is still a chance in the Estonian country that young people will be able to fill their leisure time. All things, of course, could always be more. I am more than sure that local authorities have these opportunities to continue and to a very significant extent offer these opportunities to young people. But it is extremely important indeed, I agree with you that young people have an interest. Above all, it is important for young people to be safe at home in order to have a safe family. I think these are the most important things: home education and the environment in which young people live. Of course, I am also concerned about the situation our young people have been in when we talk about all the restrictions on COVID, the fact that young people have not reached school, maybe they have not been able to communicate with their peers about how this has affected their spiritual situation. These are all very big challenges, we must be ready for them and we must definitely deal with them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U316	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U317	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. It is certainly also part of internal security that there is internal control among police officers, whether all activities are carried out under the law. I approached the Director-General of the Police Department with a question (our meeting took place online) as to whether one of the police officers assigned to the ranks of the Health Board acted in accordance with the law on law enforcement, introducing himself, as prescribed by the law. He, on the contrary, pulled people out of [the people], did not introduce himself, etc. All of this was watched by private policemen who absolutely didn't react. I asked Elmar Vaher if any internal investigation or disciplinary proceedings had been initiated because of their actions. I still haven't had an answer to that. Is it within your power to influence your subordinate to answer these questions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U318	Thank you for your question. There are two approaches. On the one hand, for every incident in the police, debrief or self-analysis is always carried out. With regard to the specific activities that have taken place and continue to take place here in Toompea or earlier in the Vabaduse Square, it will be in the process of analysis, certainly at some point it will be completed, and the police will also be able to introduce their own internal appeal. As far as the role and tasks of internal control are concerned, of course the Internal Control Office is available at the Police and Border Guard Board. Last time I was in Question Time, I called on everyone because it is actually right: if people feel that their rights have been violated or physically harmed, they would turn to the police and, for example, to the Internal Control Office. As far as I know, some requests have indeed been made to the Internal Control Office. I can't tell you this name at the moment in particular, whether it was done for this person, but I know that internal control has been addressed in itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U319	Kalle Grünthal, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U320	Thank you! Minister, thank you very much. In fact, my question was whether it was in your power to influence Elmar Varer to respond to my request, to an oral request for information, but you did not say anything about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U321	Thank you. I can certainly let him know that he has been asked a question, and the question must be answered whenever possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U322	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U323	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! We've been trying to ask you that over and over again. We had the Director-General of the PBA, Elmar Vaher, in the Group this morning, and we asked what was the basis for these various measures, why they acted differently on 9 May and 11 April. He has argued that both events were based on a PPA threat assessment. Today he said that these threat assessments didn't differ. At the same time, we all saw how the behaviour of the police was completely different. But let's come back to the fact that you have to, I understand, follow the rules, and our Prime Minister has been talking about the rules the whole time. On 9 May, the government had established a rule that only 150 people could meet for the event, yet 10,000 people visited the event. Have you initiated or are you thinking of bringing proceedings against the organiser of this event...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U324	Good questioner, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U325	...for all those people who...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U326	Honourable questioner, your time! I ask you to answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U327	... participated in the event and...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U328	Thank you for that question. Indeed, some of the relevant information about these organisers has also gone to the Health Board, namely that the [rules] for the number of participants or for dispersal have not been respected. At the same time, we need to take this into account and understand that when we talk about restrictions, talk about public events and talk about public meetings, which are "legally organized events," the organiser is indeed obliged to comply with these restrictions, but there is no way to prohibit, if someone simply wants to come there, he also abides by all the rules, he does not have a warm or cold event or meeting, but he wants to place his flower on the foot of any monument or any place in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U329	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U330	Thank you. Yeah, well, people wanted to hug at the beginning of April, but it didn't work out. But I'm moving on to this subject, I'm moving on to this document. Today is still a very depressing day here in the Riigikogu. First we cracked that "2035" and now we have your development plan. These are all beautiful documents. All right, let's put aside that there's a lot of hopeless pulpit, and every once in a while, there's some sort of tolerance in there. All the challenges we have for security, both national and defence, are even marked off in some places, but there is no money for them, no wage increases, no investment, no ability to close gaps. This also concerns internal security. It's still an internal defense reserve. You know, at the beginning of April, we had our entire reserve scrubbed up to contain these unhappy tin-nosed brawls here. Actually, it's needed, but there's no money. How will these challenges still be solved?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U331	Thank you. Again, point to the necessary and proper place. Indeed, the internal security agenda has a budget of 4.1 billion euros over 11 years. It is this existing budget in itself, but it does not cover all the activities relating to the implementation of the internal security development plan. To that end, I have also submitted additional requests. The sum of these additional requests, as I mentioned earlier, is 1.6 billion. When we talk about volunteers again, it is also, of course, necessary budgetary resources for their training, equipment and so on to recruit and retain volunteers in themselves. I think and I very much believe and hope that, in a more positive tone, we can come back to this issue, the budget issue, in the autumn, when we start adopting the state budget right here in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U332	Minister, there are no further questions. Thank you. I now ask for the Chair of the Riigikogu, President of the Legal Affairs Committee Jaanus Karilaiu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U333	Good manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the development plan in four sessions. At its meeting on 19 April, it was decided to set the date for discussion at the plenary session on 12 May. All members of the Legal Affairs Committee were present: Marek Jürgenson, Sulev Kannimäe, Uno Kaskpeit, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Heljo Pikhof, Anti Seminar, Urve Tiidus and Vilja Toomast. The Commission accompanied all parliamentary groups during the development plan process. Feedback was received from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and the Group of the Reform Party. The Committee on Legal Affairs was also accompanied by internal security volunteers. The NGO Eesti Neighborhood Watch, the Estonian Auxiliary Police Team MTÜ, the Estonian Voluntary Marine and Järveluste MTÜ, the NGO Saaremaa Volunteer Maritime Rescue Society and the NGO Society Eesti Veteläätte were included. The Salvation League replied on 6 May. In the light of the Riigikogu's discussions so far and the proposals of the political groups, the Development Plan has also been amended by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The data for 2020 have been taken into account and the baselines and targets for indicators have been revised. In February, the Minister of the Interior made a presentation to the Committee on Legal Affairs with revised metrics. Compared to this presentation, the [objectives of] citizens' satisfaction with the processing of emergency reports, satisfaction with the resolution of the rescue event and satisfaction with the police's work have been made more ambitious. The Minister of the Interior wanted to raise the level of ambition of the development plan in cooperation with Parliament. The proposal of the Reform Party Group has improved the approach to the security of the development plan, explaining that the links between security and protection from threats should be better highlighted. The proposal of the Reform Party Group also clarifies the logic and explanation of crisis preparedness and resolution. The development plan includes a clarification that the development plan envisages actions to improve population preparedness for crises and to increase institutional continuity, and provides a general framework for crisis management in any emergency, but more precise actions to improve crisis capacity in different areas are described in the relevant development and planning documents. For example, more precise actions to prevent the spread of epidemics and infectious diseases are planned in the population health development plan. The proposal of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party specifies an overview of trends in the external environment. It is added to the description of the objective that the Constitution and its principles are used to achieve the objectives of security, given that the proposals of the EKRE Group stress the need to refer to the preservation of Estonian nationality, language and culture in the various chapters of the Internal Security Development Plan. The proposals of the ECRE Group also concerned a balanced migration policy. The development plan takes into account the balance of migration policy and the development needs of Estonia, is aimed at the sustainability of the nation state and ensuring public order and state security. Point 3.2 of Chapter 3 of the Development Plan, "Most important developments in the external environment affecting the field of internal security', has been amended. The development plan emphasises that social cohesion is directly linked to the strength of society and the readiness to cope with and recover from different threats, including the prevention, reduction and effective and rapid return of irregular migrants in the best possible way and in cooperation with partners. Here too, the proposals of the EHRE were taken into account. In addition, following the proposals of the Salvation Union, the Internal Security Development Plan highlights the issue of rescue. On the basis of the Rescue Union proposal, internal security volunteers have been included as associated parties in several chapters. It also changes that the development plan no longer talks about volunteers in general, but talks about representative volunteer organisations. The last observation came from the Salvation League, the Ministry of the Interior wants to take that into account. In summary, it can be said that the development plan is well structured and comprehensive, the proposals of political parties, stakeholders and volunteers have been taken into account. The main strategic question is whether sufficient resources are provided for this development plan, and for this to be done every year, parliamentary scrutiny must be carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U334	Thank you, good waitress. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you! Now we move on to the negotiations. I'm opening negotiations, and first I'm opening a long-distance session in the form of Kalvi Tough, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U335	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Chairman of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to start by thanking you. I want to thank the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Jaanus Kariladu. After the Salvation League contacted the volunteers in the Riigikogu in a series of ways, we talked to Jaanus about this problem so that the Salvation League should be involved and their problems should be heard, and then the Legal Affairs Committee did so very quickly and the necessary changes also led to this development plan. But the development plan is a document with which we must look to the future. As part of this development plan, I would like to focus on a few issues that are important to me or rather to the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The wages of the rescuers and the policemen. As I have already referred to the Minister for the Interior in my question, we are very, very concerned about this. It is not an acceptable view that rescuers and policemen, doing a very hard job, must take another job or a third job on a free day for rest, precisely to feed their families. How do we motivate young people in such a situation by telling them to look, a good young man or a woman, go and learn to be a policeman or a savior? After all, we draw them into the swamp, figuratively speaking, and in their future lives they are in great difficulty in fulfilling their daily responsibilities. So that's a big question. This agreement that internal security staff should receive 1.2 Estonian average wage is the minimum that should be, but, as the Minister pointed out, in order to reach this level, the wage increase for next year should be at least twenty percent, but the government will be able to raise wages in this very important area next year maybe a percentage pair. Another very important issue is young people. When young people are busy, they don't go out on the street. If they have been offered an education of interest, this means that they have as little free time as possible to deal with issues that we do not think they should really be dealing with. But we all know that the government has reduced the funding for recreational education within the framework of the RES. In our view, this is a very important issue in the long term, precisely in terms of reducing young people's involvement, and then they may have a greater will to deal with things that society does not expect them to deal with. In recent years, a major trend, or a major trend, for us too, is the problem of moving crime into other forms. I mean, domestic violence. This is a very big challenge. This requires a great deal of notice, and it certainly requires more effort from the police to perhaps see more between the homes. It's something we're calling on everyone to fight together. Everyone needs to be safe at home, and any criminal activity between hometowns is totally unacceptable to us. So, the Social Democratic Party supports this development plan, but we are very, very concerned about the points I have raised, particularly regarding the salary of our internal security staff. Let us take all this to heart, and let us do our utmost to ensure that young people who go to school to study in the field of internal security should not be disappointed in their choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U336	I now request the Riigikogu Chair Marek Jürgenson.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U337	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, who have already largely reached the computer screens in this hall! In the big picture, Estonia's internal security is fine. Our people are already feeling safe. According to the 2020 survey, 92% of respondents believe that Estonia is a safe country for living. If we can hold it for the next ten years, we've already succeeded. Maintaining this level in a constantly changing world is, of course, a major challenge. An even greater challenge, however, is to increase the level of security. I would like to focus, in particular, on the development of a proactive and safe living environment when addressing this issue. I consider prevention and community involvement to be important. Both security and personal readiness to contribute to security are greater in areas where the community is stronger. According to the 2020 survey, 88% of Estonia's population are mostly convinced that they should be actively involved in ensuring the security of their own and home places. The willingness of residents to contribute voluntarily is greater than the actual contribution. 47% of the population are ready to participate in the Neighborhood Watch, 13% are ready to act as an assistant police officer and 17% as a volunteer rescuer. These figures are expected to be increased by a few percentage points over the next 10 years. It is important for the state to ensure the best possible conditions for making the best possible use of the potential of the population and for the voluntary system to be sustainable and diverse. Instead of dealing with the consequences, it makes more sense to engage in prevention activities. Knowledge, attitudes and behaviour of people play an important role in preventing damage to life, health and property. 95% of people want to act proactively, but a large proportion of accidents and injury deaths still occur as a result of human behaviour. So the challenge is how to actually put people in danger of acting proactively. It is certainly worthwhile to engage in targeted prevention so that our people know how to help. 61% of people think that their skills are sufficient to help themselves and others in the event of an accident, but there is certainly a need to increase this figure. Safety training begins at home and is the cornerstone of the teachings of each parent without thinking of it as an internal security goal. It is therefore important that parents' skills in safety are constantly improved. This will also save children's lives and health. Our internal security network must be strong, so that no one in need is left without help, the threat is not overlooked and, in crises, we are prepared to act quickly and skilfully. It's all about saving and saving lives. Volunteers are additional eyes and ears for internal security. We will not compensate for the absence of officials. The existence of volunteers shows how strong the country we live in really is. There are almost 500 volunteers in Estonia, nearly 1000 auxiliary police officers and just over 2000 volunteers. Over 10,000 households in more than 500 places in Estonia have joined the Neighborhood Watch. Looking at people's attitudes, there is potential for expanding the ranks of volunteers in internal security, as interest is greater than actual participation. 6% of the population have participated in the Neighborhood Watch, while 40% of the respondents are willing to continue to participate in it. Only 1% of respondents have participated in the work of relief police officers and rescuers, but about one in five Estonian residents aged 15 to 49 are interested in becoming an assistant police officer or volunteer rescuer. In conclusion, on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, I would like to stress that security begins with everyone's own, and it is the help of ordinary citizens that is the fastest in the event of an accident. I would like strength and strength for those who promote internal security here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U338	Thank you very much. Now in the remote session form Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U339	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I'll start with the current. I begin by saying that what took place on 9 May was the capitulation of the Estonian Defence Forces, Estonian Police and Estonian State, a silent surrender to Russia. You can cover it up as much as you want, talk black white, embellish it, talk about past experiences, talk about how it makes sense, and talk about how it has always been done and the rules have always been followed, lied, just as the Director-General of the Police and Border Guard Board has lied to us about the April demonstrations. Well, the wrong has short legs, especially today, when there are videos, there are people who were present, there are photos, there are photo galleries in mass media publications. Can you really imagine it's still Stalin's time that Beria forbids publishing something in the newspapers and is what the taller says? No, it's not. Today, the wrong one has short legs, and that's why I suggest you replace the lying police chief quickly. Otherwise, you will be an accomplice to lying, wrestling, deceiving the public and humiliating the Estonian state. Please take this very seriously, because we, as an opposition party, will not leave this issue alone. Just as those people who are before the Riigikogu every day say that we will not leave and we will not shut up, will not shut up and will not leave you alone. But we're coming up with a development plan. I am, of course, extremely skeptical about all these development plans. Firstly, these are very pointless bureaucratic documents. Secondly, can we really imagine that we can predict for ten years what's going to happen? Look what's going on in the Middle East. Look what's going on behind our eastern border. Look at what's going on in the world economy. Look what happened in the United States. Look at what's going on in American-China relations. And then we're gonna do some pink pastel murals about a bright future where a sheep sleeps in a lion's cuddle. Dreaming never comes to a disadvantage, dreaming can always, dreaming is psychotherapy. But if this dream comes true, it's a matter of its own. That is why I say that we can put together plans, we can approve these plans here in the Riigikogu. But let's remind ourselves what was ten years ago, 2011. What was the world like then? Crimea had not yet been annexed, the Syrian war had not started, mass immigration to Europe and Estonia did not exist, visa liberalisation with Ukraine and the problems of eastern labour migration in Estonia did not yet exist. There are a number of other things that I just can't analyse for a long time what I had ten years ago. That way, we can't tell what's gonna be in ten years by looking at the crystal ball right now. It's just not possible. I understand that this is such an vague strategy paper, and that is exactly how it needs to be treated. But more specifically. So what's the place where the shoe squeezes the most? It's a paycheck. It's a paycheck. At the moment, you in the government have basically given up protecting your employees' salaries. I would also like to remind you: just before I withdrew from the position of the Minister of the Interior, we had, at the Ministry of the Interior, the harmonisation of the entire wage policy of the Ministry of the Interior. This means that we would have aligned the entire complex police [wage system] with that of the rescuers, I cannot describe for a long time how difficult this police pay system is, you as a former police officer know it very well, would have aligned it with the pay system of the Alarm Centre, the Defence Police and the National Defence Academy. We would have created a common system of pay where no institution or any agency's employees would have felt discriminated against. It flew into the trash as soon as our party ministers left the Home Office. Now the second thing is security. Day-to-day security, day-to-day citizen safety, wherever he is, in a nightclub, on the street or somewhere else...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U340	Good waitress, would you like some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U341	The more concrete development of this plan was actually interrupted by the corona crisis. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U342	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U343	Therefore, I am not saying that the later players have overlooked this. But this concerned the creation of an integrated security service or security system, where private security companies, municipal security services and police, the Rescue Board and everyone else who contribute to security would participate with their definite mandate. Unfortunately, the Ministry of the Interior, as far as I know, has not taken up this issue again. But you could take it because there has been talk and it is clear that this lack of human resources is not temporary, but a shortage of resources will also be a problem in the future. Now the border guard. It is good that we use the border guard in situations where we need to close the border more closely, including the defence allies. But first, the defence allies are untrained for this. Secondly, the defence allies are volunteers. They come out when they can, if they want. Thirdly, they must be paid an additional premium. They must be paid an extra fee! And when we used them during the first corona wave, we saw that it ultimately cost quite a lot of money. They say cheap costs double. It is probably more sensible to re-establish the border guard in such a way that the border guard is also able to protect the border, able to close the border for a long time. This will ultimately be cheaper than such involvement of defence allies and relief policemen and other essentially untrained people. Unfortunately, we cannot dwell on everything here at length, but I would also like to mention that I had very large visions for strengthening Estonia's internal security in the technical plan as well. I hope that our plans to increase the helicopter capability have not been thrown into the trash, that plans to increase the capabilities of our border guard fleet have not been discarded and that our plans for crisis preparedness have not been thrown into the trash either. Because all of this together is security. Finally, migration as a security threat cannot be underestimated. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Unfortunately, I can't talk about organized crime anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U344	I'll ask you in the form of a remote hearing, Hanno Pevkur!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U345	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Maybe I wouldn't even have spoken, but the former Minister of the Interior gave us a lecture on how the grass was greener and the sky bluer, when he was in the Ministry of the Interior, and how now everything is bad, and the internal security development plan is one bad development plan at all, and the development plans as such are completely pointless. Well, then inevitably you have to react. First of all, about this so-called urgent matter or what then the development plan really doesn't do at all, about how to respond to threats in the public space. We have heard before, and we will certainly hear in the future how some politicians think that they are the right ones to solve situations. I understand that the Estonian state has entrusted agencies and experts precisely because they know how to resolve crisis situations, how to eliminate threats to public order. When we are talking here about the various demonstrations that have taken place, no one is denying that there was a threat to public order in the escalation of the various events and that the police had to respond to it. What measures to choose is not to be said by politicians in my opinion, but to say by experts according to the threat assessments that the Police and Border Guard Board itself, the Defence Police, the Intelligence Centre, the Foreign Intelligence Agency, whoever has been set up in Estonia to assess the various threats and who have responded to them as a result of these analyses. So I would suggest that we put ice under the hat for all those who think that they are smarter than the experts in the field as politicians, and trust those who have been appointed to prevent and, if necessary, deter threats to public order. As for the previous Home Affairs Minister's statements on the subject that this development plan was somehow bad, it seemed to me that it was from a famous old multiplicity where it was deafened that the pillow was sticking and the blanket was hard, or vice versa, the blanket pricks and the pillow is hard. It doesn't matter. Just all the time, there is something to blame for, even in circumstances where the previous Minister of the Interior was at the drafting of this internal security development plan from the very beginning. If anyone is bothering, please remove the Homepage of the Ministry of the Interior or search the Homepage of the Internal Security Development Plan; you can also see this development process or development how it has been handled. In spring 2018, this process started, it entered the government in 2019 and went on from there. So in this sense, Mart Helm has had the opportunity to direct this development plan himself, to write himself, as Minister of the Interior. I looked at this development plan in the light of the fact that it is really difficult to predict ten years in advance, but the SWOT analysis must be made about the situation we are in now, the situation we are expected to be in in ten years' time and the actions we want to do in one area or another. This is precisely what the Internal Security Development Plan pursues. He has looked at the current situations, the current threats and our bottlenecks and is trying to give some kind of vision, some kind of approach to how they could be resolved. I believe that the knowledge that has been gathered there through various experts, various engagements, with the involvement of volunteers, the involvement of experts in the field, with the involvement of both the Academy of Home Affairs, the scientific side and all other experts, is a pretty good collection of what we can predict at this point in time for the next ten years. Of course, this also means that we are facing new threats and we have activities that we need to react to differently. That's natural. But it makes perfect sense that we try to watch out for a long time. I believe that this concentrate is quite sufficient for us to have a good development plan for the next ten years in the field of internal security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U346	Thank you. And now I understand that there is an answer. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U347	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I would first like to say that people invited and set cannot be trusted if they are lying. The Director-General of the Police and Border Guard Board has been caught cheating when he bought his headphones, bought his boots, got caught cheating on his educational document, has repeatedly been investigated in internal control by miscarriage of all kinds of procurement, and is currently lying about protests. You can't trust someone who's chronically lying. That's one. Secondly, as regards the development plan, it was on the agenda of the previous government that the writing of the development plans should be seriously tightened up, as the situation is such that it is not possible to predict a longer...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U348	Good waitress, I'm sorry, but your connection has been cut! I have a request that we give the floor to Alar Laneman now and then come back to Mart Helme's address. Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U349	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen and listeners! There was no direct intention of speaking, a large part of the speech would have been to repeat the messages that have already been said today, but the circumstances are changing and so are the plans. There has been talk about the current event today, and maybe it is good that we look at the practical side while we are making long-term plans. We're having a little bit of a mess here. I have heard many times in recent times that the police are not properly judged by those who have not been police officers themselves. Today, too, we have heard essentially the same thing that those who have not studied this specialty should not comment on the activities of the Defence Forces. I understand where it's coming from, but there's a big mistake, a fundamental mistake, or there's several of them. You don't have to be a tailor to understand when a suit is sewn badly, and you don't have to be a baker to understand when a cake has gone behind the fence. Seriously, it is a saying that civil control cannot be carried out, because not everyone has learned in the disciplines that we have represented in civil offices. But then neither could the Prime Minister be able to evaluate the various areas. The President, who is the supreme leader of national defence, has not studied national defence. This seems to me to be a big problem, and it has something to do with how we manage and plan what we do. Here too, the legislator has reason to see how to improve the quality of its work. We tend to talk very often about processes, activities, but we should talk about the effect. This is the thing that's happened to these recent events. Even if the police acted on the right assessments, the right people took the right decisions, it is not the actions that matter, the effect of these activities is important, the effect of these activities and the environmental and impact and emotions around them, whatever. Here we need to be better to understand what these effects are. In the planning of the Defence Forces, by the way, that logic is entirely there. We are not talking about action, we are talking about what the effects of this action must be. I think we should all be good together in this area. When it comes to long-term development plans, I understand the motive for being optimistic and looking ahead positively, but life is concrete. You don't pay at the grocery store with volunteering or enthusiasm. It is our duty to the people in the area of internal security and internal security to ensure that they and their families can live today, not only in a bright future. If these numbers are not included in the plan, this savings will be somewhere else, whether the material base, the capacity for the future, which today, by the way, has been said very little. We have to do something because internal security affects all of us, it is not a party interest, it concerns all of us. With the expression used by a good colleague that this development plan is any kind of vision, I would not like to agree at all. Some kind of vision is not good enough, there must be a clear vision, there must be serious questions to be addressed. Then we'll all be happy together, and we'll be proud of our internal security people. So I want wisdom for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U350	Thank you. I'm asking you to hand over the microphone to Mart Helme so he can finish his answer. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U351	[[Remote connection]] It is very difficult for me to continue something, because I do not know when my speech was interrupted. I don't think I'm going to reconstruct unless I have a clear understanding of where I should repeat something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U352	Thank you. Reception, Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U353	[[Remote connection]] I'm responding to Alar Laneman's call. Well, Alar, you may have been in the Ministry of the Interior for a very short time, but I also dare to call you a good colleague, both in the Riigikogu and as a colleague, as an ex-Minister of Internal Affairs. I certainly didn't use the There was really talk about us having a ten-year plan on the table, and I think it's a good thing we have it on the table. The other thing definitely, where you may have been a little wrong, was when you mentioned that they said you shouldn't do civilian control or, as somebody said, that you didn't have to have knowledge. It wasn't exactly the same. What was said was that if we have trusted certain people in certain occupations, these people must also be allowed to do their job. If these people are no longer doing their job for a certain reason, whatever, because of lack of trust or for any other reason, this is another situation. The ex-minister Mart Helmel also had a pretty long cooperation with the chief police officer, the director general of the sitting police. So it is certainly good to say in retrospect here that now a person is no longer fit, but, see, if there was cooperation with you, then it was okay, there was no problem. So, ladies and gentlemen, I understand that all that the coalition is doing in the opposition must be attacked, but in the case of the internal security development plan, I would still advise you to abandon this attack and refrain from it, because that is what we have all done together. Basically, all the political parties currently in Parliament have been involved, either in government or directly in the Ministry of the Interior. During these years, the Ministry of the Interior has had the Social Democratic Party, the EKRE and the Reform Party, and it is worth remembering this also during the vote in this Chamber or when discussing the internal security development plan at all. So, ladies and gentlemen, let us remember this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U354	Thank you. I don't see any more speeches. I'm closing the negotiations. As was said at the beginning, the Riigikogu will not take a decision at the end of the development plan discussion. The eighth item is closed. Mart Helme, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U355	[[Remote connection]] There's no procedural question. I would have called the honourable colleague to order: let him not teach his colleagues, let him not teach.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U356	Thank you. If there is no procedure...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U357	I think we did our job well. Yeah, it's not procedural. Don't teach your colleagues. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-12_U358	Thank you. Today's trial is over. Thank you! Have a good night.
