ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U1	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Government of the Republic! Happy Question Time Watchers! Good afternoon. Let's start the November 17th briefing. First of all, good colleagues, we're gonna run a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U2	29 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 72 are missing. Today's Question Time is attended by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, Andres Sutt, Minister of Entrepreneurship and Information Technology, and I understand that the Minister of Culture Tiit Terik via the Internet Bridge. Good fellows! As a dozen issues have been registered in advance, I have a modest proposal for you before we go to traditional procedural questions, so that any question can be asked for one additional and one supplementary question, then we should reach the 10th at a good pace. A procedural question, Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U3	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to express my sincere thanks to you for the fact that you have placed me at the end of the list for the first time in a very significant fourth place. Thank you very much. But maybe you still have the strength and the courage to put an end to such screaming physical violence against Mart Helme and Kert Kingo so that they can be among the first to ask?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U4	Thank you. I can't take this honor on my shoulders, and there's Hanno Pevkur and Martin Helme. We in the Bureau really did discuss your question, which you raised, and that is how the order came to be today. Thank you for your concern about your colleagues, Kert Kingo and Mart Helme! We will certainly look at it the next time, just as all 99 other members of the Riigikogu are in addition to these two. But now, really, let's get to the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U5	The first question is asked by the member of the Riigikogu Helir-Valdor Seeder and is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. The issue is the security situation. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U6	Thank you. Prime Minister! In my opinion, the chronic problem with your government is that in a rapidly changing time, you will simply get in the way of events, from time to time, decisions will be late, or sometimes there will be no decisions that should be made at all. This has been the case, for example, with testing in schools, which we have been talking about here for months, and the government finally made a decision and must say that there is an effect. As a result, it has been possible to stop the spread of infection. Well, and the issue of the procurement of tests, which was decided on an urgent basis in ten minutes, which is a very unfortunate case, or the involvement of family doctors in vaccination, as he has now finally agreed in the vaccination process, or the creation of a vaccination damage fund, which we have been talking about for months and where no reasonable decision has been reached. As we get closer to the security issues, it seems to me that this also applies to this area. At the end of September, you visited the Riigikogu and confirmed that the threat assessments show that there is no danger to Estonia's control line and borders, and there is no need to install temporary border barriers either. Today we have come to a completely different situation. Until the situation that Riigikogu members spoke about here a month and two years ago, as soon as these events began. And now, once again, in an accelerated emergency session, you made a decision that could have been taken calmly in a regular session if the threat assessment had been realistic. My question is that the next stunt that awaits us, national legislation, I believe that changes are also needed in the current situation. Do you see the need to review the legislation so that we are not late again in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U7	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U8	Thank you. The security situation is really dangerous and anxious, especially in recent days. If we look at what is being done at the border of the European Union in Belarus, how it is using people as a weapon against the European Union, or if we look at what is going on beyond the borders of Ukraine, the concentration of Russian troops, these are all the signals that were being discussed on Monday in the Security Committee of the Government of the Republic, and what we have actually been dealing with all summer. I am still saying: just as in summer there is no immediate threat to Estonia's borders. Nevertheless, in view of the changed security situation, we decided on Monday, listening to all the relevant reviews in the Security Committee of the Government of the Republic, to make appropriate presentations, to propose to the Government. This morning, the government decided to convene an additional training meeting in order to introduce an accelerated barrier to the borders. From this day forward, the reservists will be called together, and within eight days, the Defence Forces will set up this barrier. In addition, last Thursday we discussed in the government how to speed up the construction of the entire border. It is known to be covered by procurement and projects, but [the question is] how we can do it faster. These are also decisions taken by the previous government, which have stretched the border to 2026. I'm sure we'll see how we can build a full line. What I might point out separately is that, at the European Council level, we have had very serious disputes about whether the European Commission should also finance the construction of Europe's external borders from European funds. The European Commission has had a strong confrontation here. At the last Council that took place in October, we carried this issue very strongly. Today, I am pleased to note that, for example, the President of the European Union Council, Charles Michel, has already said that yes, the funding for the construction of the border should also come from the European Union budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U9	Now for an additional question, Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U10	Thank you. I did not actually get an answer to my question concerning national legislation. Do you see, in the situation that has developed, the need to make improvements and clarifications so that we can act flexibly with people who cross the border illegally and that we should not start to do the procedures that are currently provided for by our national legislation and European law and to deal with them as ordinary migrants and provide asylum for them, etc.? In my opinion, we must complement and amend our national legislation as a result of the current situation. But this morning there was a meeting of the Council of Elders, attended by you, the Minister of the Interior, and the Minister of Defence, and thank you very much for having such an operational opportunity. It was informative and, in my opinion, very necessary and useful. But there you said that Putin is playing himself at the table and now, in this whole security process, he's offering himself as a mediator of conflict, and that's bad. I share your view that this is very bad. Against this background, it does not make any sense to me that a few days ago representatives of the Estonian and Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs were communicating with each other and found that cross-border cooperation was good and the Minister of Foreign Affairs again raised the subject of ratification of the Estonian-Russian border treaty in the current situation. My question is: do you share the initiative and enthusiasm of the Minister for Foreign Affairs that this is the right time to move forward with the ratification of the Estonian-Russian border treaty, and raising this issue is absolutely appropriate and reasonable? My opinion is quite the opposite: this time and this proposal in the current context are completely inappropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U11	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U12	Thank you. There must have been no briefing where the members of the Riigikogu would be satisfied with the answers. But that was also the case when we were in opposition, so in this respect it is good that no things have changed. But coming to this question, really, sorry, my first answer was so long that I couldn't answer the second question. Legislation. Yes, the matter came up in the body of elders, and I know that the Minister of the Interior, Kristian Jaani, is reviewing the legislation in this key to ensure that the necessary barricades are in place. However, the Riigikogu is still a legislative body and you also have the opportunity to initiate such drafts. So I'm definitely looking forward to working together here. Now, with regard to communication with the Russian authorities, as far as I know, this was a normal communication with the Russian authorities, as it always does, that there are different issues to be dealt with. It was simply stated what these positions are on the issues that are currently open. Unfortunately, or fortunately, there are no developments on this subject at this time. As far as Putin is concerned now, indeed, this Belarusian crisis has given Putin an opportunity, or he has expressed his wish to be a mediator on this matter, if there is Lukashenko on one side, who is completely insane and using people as a weapon, and next to him, Putin, who also has contacts with the leaders of the Western countries. But I do not think that Europe should show any weakness at all here. We are united on this issue; we must not, in any way, show any division that we do not have. I think it is very positive that the European Commission and the Council of Europe have come vigorously behind Poland. Poland, Lithuania and Latvia are doing what is their duty, or defending the European Union's border. These people are legal in Belarus and they are trying to enter the European Union illegally. Poland, Lithuania and Latvia do what they have to do: they defend the European border. Certainly should not go along with such, I would say, provocations, which have something to do with a milder attitude. I think the right attitude has so far been strong and strong, which dictator Lukashenko has not expected.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U13	A further question. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U14	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Prime Minister! Good Prime Minister, first let me congratulate you. The results of the Norstat poll came out today, which will place you in a prize-winning third place. I mean, it's pretty close, but still! A weighty sign moment. It was only when we were able to congratulate you here at the beginning of September for your second place as a placebo. The leadership of the party is undoubtedly teamwork, but the leader certainly has the greatest honour. We now have almost two full lines of reform party members in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. At today's pace, a little more than a year from now, there will be one line left. Recently, local governments campaigned with a slogan "Let's make room!'. I see you've taken it to the right heart and put it into practice. Ansip wanted you to launch a debate inside the party. Have you already begun to debate among yourselves who are the Riigikogu ambassadors who are not in the next composition, or are you planning to leave this decision to your successor? But that wasn't my question. My question comes up on security. This morning it was discussed in the elders'council, and now I read the news that a reserve gathering has been announced, during which pioneers will be taken to the southern border where the barbed wire garden will be placed. This is all right and good and deserves recognition, but, as the Secretary of Defense said, this reserve training gathering is a little over a week. We can see that this crisis will last for months, probably until spring. What is our longer plan, the longer plan of the government, to keep the necessary force at the border with the aim of preventing illegal entry into Estonian territory?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U15	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U16	Thank you. Maybe it seemed wrong to me, but you were asking for credit for your excellent work under the leadership of the EKRE party. This honor and fame certainly belongs to you for bringing EKRE ratings to such high ground, and I'm sure everyone will look with envy. But we need to lead the government here in a situation where we have a number of very serious crises. One is the health crisis, where we have experienced a downward trend in infection due to the right decisions of the government. We have kept society open, limited it as little as possible and got the hospital network under strain and also infected. These have been difficult and unpopular decisions, for which, of course, no one will say thank you. Everyone wants life to go on exactly the way it's always been. Now, from the security side. We have the Defence League, we have the Defence Forces, we have both volunteers and active troops. These are all the people we can use to protect the Republic of Estonia, and we have very clear plans for this. But there must also be the right basis for these plans to be implemented. We have our own system of advance warning from which we operate. It is not right that we are mobilising all people in a situation where there is no immediate danger, because in this case there may be a situation that, if we keep the background of anxiety at a very high level, at the moment when real help is needed, people are tired and unable. So we're still going with this long plan, which is, based on how the threat situation and the threat assessments are and how we have to act. We are ready to act very quickly, as I said. On Monday, when these reviews were given, we decided to propose that the Security Committee of the Government of the Republic should convene an additional training meeting. This morning, in the government, we made this decision, an additional training meeting was called, and from today the reservists are gathering to build this border barrier quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U17	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U18	Let us move on to the second question. It is presented by Helle-Moonika Helme, which is answered by the Minister of Culture Tiit Terik, and the subject is held in the Ministry of Culture. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U19	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister of Culture, We are currently discussing security issues, but culture is also very important and there is also a certain security aspect in culture. My first question would then be that during the previous government, the Minister of Culture strongly supported the idea of creating the research and development programme of the Estonian humanities and of finding money for it. The programme focused on our history, archaeology, ethnology, folkloristics, and also covered areas of importance to Estonian culture such as literary science, linguistics, art science and music. The programme provided for the allocation of personal research grants to researchers, both for remuneration and for the promotion of research results. How far is this idea now being developed in the ministry? What is your position as the new Minister of Culture on the development of the humanities of Estonia, which I have just mentioned, during my term of office?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U20	Tiit Terik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U21	[[Remote connection]] Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! It is a great honour to be in the ministerial office for the first time today to answer questions before Parliament. I'm sorry I can't do this while I'm physically present, because I'm designated for self-insulation. Mrs Helme's question is very important. Indeed, our culture is also a very clear question of our security. With regard to the funding of the humanities that you have referred to, I will be able to mention as the first measure in time, for example, the call for a creative research grant, which we intend to open in February next year, and which is planned for EUR 413000 in the budget. So this is certainly one very clearly tangible result for which both my predecessor and the entire Ministry of Culture have worked. The second [spectacle] that I would like to highlight to you concerns cooperation between culture and the creative sector, where there is also a very clear financial dimension. In this case, the amount of money is even much higher than the 413000 mentioned above. It costs EUR 4285000 and a little bit of money from the European Regional Development Fund. This is for grants for projects after 2022 and the specific name of this action is support for R &amp; D and innovation projects that offer solutions to development needs. So I believe that this, too, is a tangible measure that, when we answer your question, could please all of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U22	Thank you. Now for an additional question. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U23	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. My question concerns a slightly different area. Namely, we have read in the media that Estonia is ready for a hybrid war or a migration crisis, the politician is, of course, to say that we are dealing with people who have crossed the border in the context of a hybrid war, and we have provided enough tents and translations to do so. Well, tents are probably not the field of the Minister of Culture, but the interpreters are probably at some point. My question now is that, firstly, of course, this shows that Estonia has already capitulated and is ready to receive, host and process immigrants, which is a completely different practice than that pursued by our southern neighbours. But the question to you as Minister of Culture is this. How many translations and languages have Estonia put on ice so to speak, so to speak, to apply them to all procedural procedures if necessary?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U24	Tiit Terik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U25	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr Helme, for this question. It is true that one of the areas of the Ministry of Culture is also the area of integration. As regards integration and the need for translation from the background and cultural background of people who have never lived here before, I cannot tell you at the moment how many of these translations have been put on ice using your words, but the adaptation programme is indeed what the Ministry of Culture is doing. If we are also thinking about what the tensions in society are usually caused by the understanding of different cultures, then it is certainly the language barrier that gives the tone here. Having been in office for a week, the number of interpreters, I'm sorry, I can't tell you right now. I'm sure I'll specify the question and I'll contact you myself.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U26	And now for the additional question. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U27	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office. Once again, esteemed Minister of Culture! As a new Minister of Culture, you will get such diverse questions from the very beginning. I might ask you a completely unconventional question, but still. The Ministry of Culture has two advertisements outside of the Buy.ee environment, the category of which is "Sales of state property." And what do we see there? We see that the Ministry of Culture sells sheep skins, both black and white, each 200 pieces, and in the event of successful sales, the public authority would receive EUR 14040. No kidding, my question is why the Ministry of Culture sells sheep skins and where they come from in the administration of the Ministry of Culture. What has been the purpose of their acquisition, has it been a cultural project or a souvenir? Even if this has been the case, why have they been put up for sale now and why are their prices 40% of the initial price, so this is a clear loss for the state? It is also strange that, if you want to buy, the seller is no longer the Ministry, but the mail order company Kene OÜ, which is a one-wife company without employees. Why the Ministry has chosen this company to market its own goods is deeply incomprehensible. Maybe there's some way you can comment on this case.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U28	Tiit Terik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U29	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mrs Helme, for this question. As regards the realisation of public assets, if this public sector is no longer needed by itself, I can tell you from my previous experience in one of the municipalities of Harjumaa that this environment has been used in the past. For example, in the case of a company or foundation owned by Tallinn, the use of such a purchasing environment in realising assets which are not necessary for itself, if so decided by the council, is a completely practical solution. As far as these sheep skins are concerned, I must admit that I have not yet had the opportunity to come into contact with this issue during this week. Of course, the transfer of state-owned assets, once such a decision has been taken, must be legally very clearly justified and, of course, the form of its realisation must also be chosen in such a way as to make the best possible transaction for the State. On this question, too, I would ask your kind permission that I will specify the details and then contact you personally. I believe we can get the black and white sheep together, the skins placed on the market and traded for the best benefit for the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U30	Thank you. I will finish addressing this issue and we will move on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U31	Question three. The question is asked by Priit Sibul, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by Andres Sutt, Minister of Entrepreneurship and Information Technology. The subject is business grants and employment. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U32	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I have a question about the catering sector and the tourism sector. Kaja Kallas, a good ruler, met with representatives of the tourism and catering sector on 8 November to discuss the effects of the corona crisis on the sector and to discuss solutions that would help both workers and customers to find out about health and the future prospects of the sector. I don't know exactly, at least I couldn't find any indications of whether or not you were attending this meeting. Delfi mediates a good ruler's view: "Thanks to vaccination, we have been able to keep society and the economy open for people who have been vaccinated and infirmed with valid COVID certificates, and companies can operate freely in compliance with control measures. " Well, after that meeting, representatives of the sector said that the state sent them into the forest, that they had the impression that they were invited to this meeting to take pictures and to share messages. This is what feedback came from the sector via the media. I want to know if you've met them. Has the government discussed whether and what measures [to be implemented] and do you consider it necessary to create any support measures for hotel and restaurant businesses? Have they been discussed when these issues could come to the agenda? How closely and how have you interacted with this sector? We know that the crisis is affecting this sector quite significantly, regardless of what one or the other of us thinks of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U33	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U34	Thank you, good questioner! I have met with representatives of the tourism sector, including the hospitality sector, on a good number of two-digit occasions. We have actually had regular meetings for a long time, they have been closer in the spring, when the COVID crisis was at its peak, but we have also been quite frequent in recent months through Teams to discuss these very topics. Now, the policy of this government, as the Prime Minister has said, has been to keep society as open as possible, and vaccination with the Coronary Certificate has actually helped to do so. People have been able to go to a restaurant, people have been able to go to spas, and this has certainly helped us to keep society open. It is true that if we look at the economy as a whole, the Estonian economy is definitely in the boom phase. There is one sector that stands out, this sector is tourism and hospitality services, where really the level of 2019 has not yet been reached. There are some positive signs. If, for example, we look at the turnover of restaurants from June to September, we do not yet have data from October, they will come at the end of November, then we can also look at the performance of October, in fact, the fall in turnover from June was 6%. And beyond that, July, August, September remained a 2% drop in turnover compared to 2019, which was a peak in tourism and hospitality. What have we prepared, and what support measures are already in place? If we look at what the sector really needs in the post-COVID environment, it concerns business models, it concerns digitisation. It is in these two areas that REACT-EU has 17,6 million resources, of which the product development measure for tourism operators is already open and can be applied for until 5 January, and a central digital solution support measure of 4 million, which will open in November, that is, this month and the possibility of applying will last until February next year. I think these are important measures to support the change in the sector and to help survive this difficult period. And, of course, if we look back in time, there have been almost 57 million of these grants this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U35	Thank you. More question, Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U36	Thank you. I think it's irrelevant how much you've met. The question is, do they understand each other? I read the feedback where the Association of Hotels and Restaurants says that they had the impression that they were only invited to take a picture and then they read through the media that their sector did not have any problems in the heads of government. If we don't understand each other, the number of meetings is quite irrelevant. The second topic. I just want to know, I didn't understand if it was your lonely hound or if the government had a plan. When I read the coalition agreement, I do not see that there should be significant changes, but you indicated at the Eesti Pank event that changes in labour migration are needed, that otherwise taxes should be increased or that at least that is how the media companies will mediate. I don't know exactly what you said, because I wasn't there myself, okay, but we should leave the servant mentality. From slave mentality to modern slavery, it's quite simple. But knowing you, I don't think we're talking about cheap labor. Like I said, there are sectors in the government. But what exactly do the government or you mean? In which sectors, after all, do we have priority sectors, how many people are missing in the direction in which something has to happen in what perspective? After all, we have certain sectors out of employment numbers, which means there are no restrictions. But how do you help or what do you expect these changes to be? When I read the coalition agreement, I cannot understand that you are planning any significant changes compared to what you have done so far. Or has something changed since then?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U37	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U38	Thank you, good questioner! I will also answer about the end of this previous question, whether we have mutual understanding and whether we are hearing each other. My assessment of this is: yes, we hear and we have discussed [these topics]. Have we always been in agreement on all matters? No, but we have always had a constructive debate with representatives of the tourism sector. I think that is something you can also freely question from these representatives of the Union or from specific operators. Now, your second question concerning the situation on the Estonian labour market. If we take the latest report from the Institute of Economics, for example, the growth of Estonian entrepreneurs is mostly hampered by the lack of skilled labour. These were topics that we also discussed at the seminar of Eesti Pank on Friday, where Mr Urmas Reinsalu was present as the representative of your party, who introduced Marxist economic theory. I think this theory has proven itself. Where's it going? It's coming to a dead end. But what we are currently preparing in the government, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior, is a way of accurately assessing and looking at the gaps in the labour market and labour market regulation that are precisely related to skilled labour. I think it's important. This is important because our demography inevitably forces us to admit that we will have fewer people of working age on the market. At the same time, we have very good companies that export, are active in innovation, and it is very important that these companies have a skilled workforce. The long-term solution to this problem is certainly a better match between the education system and the needs of the labour market, as well as the popularisation of the professions of insanity. I think that very often industry is a deceiving image of companies in the future that industry is something that is old-fashioned and black. The modern technology industry is certainly highly technology-intensive, many IT skills are needed, and I think that young people will certainly have a bright eye. As far as concrete proposals are concerned, we intend to come to the government in December and then also consult the various parties, both employers and employees.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U39	Now for an additional question. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U40	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! I'm probably one of the few in this hall who can say that the chef is my title, which I've earned since the beginning, from the lower level, to the end. It's great to be popular, but let's face it. During this pandemic and crisis period, we have lost one third of restaurants in Tallinn's Old Town. Catering establishments in other parts of Estonia have been quite seriously hit, and the measures that have come in there have not been sufficient. In this respect, the question is whether we could not take Estonia to a more normal level, somewhere in the middle of Europe. I will look at the 2018 excerpt of the Institute of Economics and see Luxembourg (3% VAT), Hungary (5%), the Netherlands (6%), Poland (8%) and they will come from there. If, at just 12% or 9%, it was possible to move this VAT to be competitive, the few that have remained. All the more so since we will soon be discussing the [proposal] of traffic cameras here, which means that food can no longer be transported home from the Old Town. If only by bike, but with some other mechanized thing, you can't get to the old town. They can only carry food from 8:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m. It would be good for this sector if we were to move VAT to 9%. Not on food, because we know it will not be cheaper for the consumer, the merchants will put it on, but on these catering establishments. Have you changed your position, or will it continue to be the dogma of the Minister of Finance that we do not make any distinctions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U41	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U42	Thank you. It is certainly right that there are a number of restaurants that have closed their doors. There are certainly many companies in other sectors of the economy that have closed their doors. At the same time, there are also a lot of new restaurants open. If I am not mistaken now, in fact, the number of catering establishments has not decreased in the face of this crisis, but I have to check it out. If I'm wrong, I'm sorry. As I pointed out in reply to the previous question, actually from summer to September, which is the last one we have data on, in fact, the average turnover in the restaurant business has returned. I am not convinced that there is a problem with VAT today and therefore our restaurant culture is not competitive. We have very good restaurants, starting from street food to top class and everything that gets caught in it. I have been to restaurants myself, including the Old Town, and there are very good food restaurants, and there are quite a lot of people there too. This problem is diverse. It certainly exists, and this sector, as I said before, has been the most complicated. I think that the solution is, above all, in some adjustments to business models, because if we take the experience of co-selling and food co-selling from restaurants, for example, it is clear that if we have the COVID wave, then the office workers who might otherwise come out to eat the restaurant would rather order the food home, and therefore those who have the option of co-selling are actually better adapted. I agree that the top restaurant, of course, cannot engage in food co-sales, this is the second segment. But I also think that the current opening hours and COVID evidence do not in any way prevent people from visiting top restaurants and if we keep society open, then the tourist will come back here, and we will be able to reach again those turnovers, which we actually have the aim of the EAS, so that we can get back to the tourism exports we had in 2019 by 2025, but we still need to discuss this sector's strategy with the alliances. In any case, flexibility and some adjustments to business models are necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U43	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U44	Let's move on to question four. It is presented by Kalle Grünthal, answered by Prime Minister Kallas, and the issue is managing the corona crisis. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Kaja Kallas! The national contingency centre is constantly sending us information about the situation in Estonia and the data from other European countries are added to the attachments. Interestingly, they all reflect very drastic situations. But since I have a small overview of the Norwegian state, I asked that you also provide me with Norwegian data. The answer was that this in-depth overview of the Norwegian state was not made by our country, but the request was received and it was announced as of 11 November that COVID disease and the number of hospitalizations had increased in Norway. On Tuesday, 9 November, more than 2,000 positive tests were added and there are 187 COVID-19 patients in hospitals. Now, at first glance, it seems to be a very scary number, but if we start comparing with Estonia, there were 2126 positive tests in Norway, 1089 positive tests in Estonia on the same day. There are 187 patients in the hospitals in Norway, we have 611. The difference is that the population of Norway is five times larger and it is data that is not at the gossip level. However, Norway has removed all restrictions without exception and masking, no new outbreaks of pandemics have been observed within two months, and the fact is also that the proportion of people vaccinated with two doses of vaccine does not exceed 33%. And most importantly, according to the Norwegian media, the COVID is equal to the flu. Sweden is going the same way. Question: when will you stop running this dead end twice and take Norway as an example, just as you took Bangladesh as an example in wearing a mask?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U46	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U47	Thank you. Norway is a good example of the fact that if the level of vaccination is so high, i.e. 69% full vaccination and a partial vaccination rate of 77%, then one can afford no restrictions. We have put in place control measures because we have two thirds of people who are in hospital and clogging hospitals, unvaccinated, and if the proportion of unvaccinated people in society is high, then the virus will spread to vaccinated people, because it will break through this protection, because the virus is just a lot around. Norway is a good example. As they have achieved a very high level of vaccination, they can refrain from any control measures. Unfortunately, we are not there, and therefore every effort to convince people to vaccinate requires more time and more work, especially from medical staff. I am very grateful to the family doctors who do this all the time, who call people who ask for their fears, who are trying to show that the disease really should be more feared. There's more people who vaccinate. The positive thing is that with the effective doses, we've gone on nicely. We know that, especially with certain vaccines after five months of protection, the virus breaks through better, and with these doses of effectiveness, or third doses, we have moved on. On the positive side, when we talk about nursing homes, the weakest, the nursing homes today have 69.93% of the workers and 77.12% of the clients of nursing homes who are at the time of the effective dose are vaccinated with an effective dose. They suffer from this disease so seriously and may end up in a hospital. The more these people are protected, the easier it will be for everyone, and the better we can continue with an open society.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U48	Now for the additional question. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U49	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Kallas, I haven't heard such a lie in a long time. But with this, it's your peculiarity. This is about staff, which you have been talking about here. In fact, according to you in the COVID department, there's supposedly a shortage of staff, and in order to correct it, you promised to pay these people double fees, but then suddenly you found that there was no money. What was the solution? You sent these people all on a four-month pay leave, which means they will not return to work until the end of January. Why do you make such decisions when your wrong actions are really causing the situation? And the second question is what came to me on the phone today. The last one called me. They're doing speed tests for the kids. First, the test is done outside and these tests are anonymous. If one test is positive, the whole class will be sent home, which means that the parents of the whole class must actually be self-insulated because they may be infected. Why is it done in this way? I have two questions relating to governance. Why are you complaining about the shortage of employees if you do not fulfill your promise to pay double fees and why are children tested in this way at school?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U50	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U51	Thank you. You guys are all messed up now, as usual. Firstly, healthcare providers are, of course, autonomous, hospitals are autonomous in the way they organise their work. What have we done by the government? We've raised the COVID bed fee by 75%, just so hospitals can pay their staff more. If there are internal arrangements in hospitals, be it vacations or how someone works in a position, these things are not decided at government level. Each employer decides these matters himself. For our part, we have provided hospitals with these tools to motivate people. And indeed, it is becoming increasingly difficult to motivate people to work at these jobs because it is hard work, it requires the use of protective measures, it is actually very uniform work. If people want to work as an operating nurse, for example, it's a completely different job. Now for schools. First of all, self-insulation doesn't have to go to people who have been vaccinated. Yes, we have suggested that if, for example, parents have a sick child at home, if they are with a child, if there is a lot of this virus at home, it can break through protection, and such a vaccinated person can carry on with the disease. We have made recommendations, and family doctors also provide sick leave, and such parents can stay at home. Now testing in schools. This screening is actually a success story. Thanks to the fact that we test the children three times a week, we have actually received a lot of positive test results before these children have gotten together with other children, even if they do not have any symptoms. There were over 1,000 positive tests in the first week. So these kids didn't come into contact with anyone else, and that's why they didn't transmit the virus. As a result, we have been able to reduce the infection, compared to last week, we have lost 35% of the infection. It's a very big drop. So this school screening has definitely been the right decision. There's been some argument. We thought it best to do this in schools under teacher control, if everyone is doing this test, but in fact, parents are mostly responsible and do these tests at home, so that the child with the positive result does not go among others, does not travel in public transport, does not carry on with this disease. If the test indicates this disease, if the test is positive, then it must undergo a PCR test and continue to behave accordingly. Everyone else can go to school.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U52	Now for an additional question, Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! The issue is managing the corona crisis, and from week to week we only hear how you do not have such information or who gets the wrong idea again or doesn't get it at all. And then you're going to be moaning some numbers that nobody understands and that don't match the numbers shown earlier or elsewhere. But the problem persists. At the moment, the government's crisis management has been expressed in such a way that restrictions are imposed on Estonian residents internally, they are discriminated against in every way, but at the same time the borders are open. This subject has been in briefings from week to week, and this has been highlighted by the ambassadors. Finland can come to Estonia peacefully without anyone checking for infection. The same is true for Latvia. Latvians go to spas and amusement facilities in Estonia and I don't know where else. Nobody controls them. And then there are those who come from third countries via the airport, such as Ukrainians. Explain to me what kind of guidance is when we let the virus enter the country in deposits and then we just limit and discriminate against our people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U54	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U55	Thank you. First of all, if we look at where the disease comes from, the number of cases introduced varies a little bit, it's about two to three percent. And those coming from abroad, where do they mostly come from? Coming from Turkey, coming from Russia, but these are our own people, these are Estonian citizens, whom we cannot stop in any way from coming home. It's perfectly clear. In addition, we have agreed on the countries of the European Union that are in the green zone, and there is no control when coming from these Schengen countries. Because if our level of infection is higher than, for example, in Finland, it is clear that we are not at risk for those who come from Finland. There's a threat right here. We have no extensive restrictions, we have everything open, we have decided to keep everyone open: can work in restaurants, can work in theatres, people can walk around. Most people have behaved responsibly, vaccinate themselves and, accordingly, can participate anywhere in society. There are exactly the same restrictions in other countries. If you are watching or if you read foreign media, Austria, for example, brought in the full lockdown of unvaccinated people. They can't move anywhere, they'll be checked to make sure they're home. They have limitations. In Denmark, where the level of coverage of vaccination is much, much higher than we have, as the infection is about to go up, Denmark brought back the demand for COVID evidence. Again, exactly the same: vaccinated people and people with a history of disease, who have evidence, can participate anywhere. It's all for the protection of unvaccinated people. I've said it many times, and I know you don't like the answer, but the fact is that most people in hospitals are unvaccinated. They are the ones who get seriously ill, they are the ones who get into intensive care, they are the ones who actually fill beds in hospitals and [after] scheduled treatment must be limited.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U56	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U57	Let us move on to question five. It is presented by Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by Tiit Terik, Minister of Culture. The issue is cultural investment. Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U58	Thank you. Dear Minister, I can't see you in the picture right now. Allow me to congratulate you on your new job. However, the former minister has left you quite a number of questions for your inheritance. You probably know that on 8 November the former Minister of Culture had to appear in the special anti-corruption committee of the Riigikogu in order to answer questions about the investments planned in the budget for next year. The Minister of Culture decided to share 90% of the state budget investment grants for the following year in Võru and Valgamaa, where he himself was nominated for both the previous elections of the Riigikogu and the last municipal elections. Hence the question: do you have a fresh look at the investment plan in the Ministry?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U59	Tiit Terik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U60	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. I thank you for these good words and it is nice to meet you in this work format, in addition to meeting in Tallinn. As regards the investments that are made in the regions, municipalities across Estonia are always very grateful for the investments that the central government and the state are helping to make in the regions, whether it concerns the cultural sector, the sport sector or some other important investments that the local community needs. As regards the proposals that you mentioned in the previous Minister for Culture on investment, I know we are talking about the size of the 7 million which are planned to be invested in this area. 6 million of this, or the lion's share, concerns multifunctional football fields and not just in the area you mentioned, but also in Paide, Jõgeva, Narva, Viimsi. I believe that these are extremely important investments, even on the basis that youth sport and youth exercise in the current difficult situation are also extremely important in the context of mental health. As far as South Estonia is concerned, the Minister has indeed defended projects concerning renovation of Haanjamaa Sport and the main building of the fitness centre in Haanjamaa with an amount of EUR 200000, as well as the construction of the permanent exposition of Valga Patriotic Education and their exhibition hall, indeed, the construction of the multifunctional square roof of the Võru Municipality Government, the renovation of volleyball squares in Võru City, as well as the construction of the Wittenstein Time Centre have brought the minister to government. It must be acknowledged that these decisions have been taken by the government and that it has presented its budget proposals to the honourable Parliament. You can review them too, but if you borrow the words of Oskar Luts, I can tell you that I got to the ministry when the budget was done. But indeed, out of respect for my colleague and my predecessor, I do not see that I should intervene very strongly and look around these objects, all the more so as a large part of the money has gone to football, which is not related to these beautiful Southern Estonian municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U61	Thank you, Minister. Your picture had changed. Before you had flowers in the background when you answered, there was no second answer. I hope nothing bad happened to them, that they didn't fall off. No further questions. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U62	Let's move on to the next, sixth question. It is presented by Martin Helme, which is answered by Andres Sutt, Minister for Enterprise and Information Technology, and the subject is labour dumping. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U63	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Yesterday on the board, the question was whether the word "dumping" existed in Estonian. The dictionary of the correct language says it is. In recent weeks, intensive lobbying has taken place in Estonia, or I would say, an attack on both Estonian immigration policy and the labour market. Eesti Pank organised a propaganda event in full clear order to promote the idea of bringing low-cost labour into Estonia. The Employers' Confederation, led by your party partner, Arto Aas, continues to beat this drum. Various farms have called for low-cost labour. Against this background and as a result, you have come up with the idea that a temporary workforce in Estonia should be allowed not to work as it is now, for up to one year, but to be extended to up to three years. Estonia's government today has led us to the highest inflation in the last 12 years. Last time inflation in Estonia was as high in 2008, when the Reform Party dragged us into the five richest countries and, of course, did so in such a way that we had one of the biggest economic crises and the slowest recovery in Europe and the world. So what does inflation mean? Inflation means that people, workers, will inevitably have higher wage expectations, because they will simply no longer come out with their existing wages. Instead of helping people raise wages in terms of price increases, you now want to open the immigration gates that are already wide open, so that entrepreneurs do not have to raise wages, but can bring cheap labour into the country. I have a simple question. Why do you want to deprive the people of Estonia of the opportunity to receive wage increases in the context of inflation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U64	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U65	Thank you, good questioner! I stand for the development of the Estonian economy and, together with the development of the Estonian economy, the wages of the Estonian people will grow, just as they have always done. I have never talked about low wages, that's what I heard about the question. I agree in this sense that we are not talking about the low-wage labour force that we would need for some reason in Estonia. However, just as I answered Mr Priit Sibula's question here earlier, referring to the same report by the Institute of Economics, but also to a wide range of meetings with entrepreneurs individually, visiting companies and actually meeting professional associations, it is clear that it is precisely the skilled labour force, the skilled labour force, that is, where there are some gaps in Estonia today, which hinder the development of entrepreneurship and thus hinder the creation of jobs with higher added value. The creation of jobs with higher added value is precisely the goal that I stand for, and that is the goal that was discussed at this seminar at Eesti Pank. Just as I stress here too, I have never spoken of mass immigration, nor have any business organisations, nor have I heard it from any entrepreneur. I think we have no reason to put words in someone's mouth and say what they have not actually said. As far as inflation is concerned, we can certainly think that Estonia has such a power that we can move energy prices on the global market, which are the main inflation components in Estonia. The biggest contribution was the price of energy increased by more than 40%, which has a relatively small link to the situation on the Estonian labour market. Estonia's labour market is primarily affected by the success of our own companies. If, for example, we look at export figures, we look at the competitiveness of our companies abroad, that is very good, our companies can pay higher salaries to employees. Historically, inflation was even higher in the United States last month. So this temporary rapid increase in prices is clearly a global phenomenon, not our pushed or created topic in Estonia. So we are dealing with the flexibility of the labour market, we are working to have a skilled workforce so that entrepreneurship can develop.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U66	Thank you. Now, the question to be specified. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U67	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I don't want to put words in anyone's mouth, I just want to expose the duplicity and deceit that goes with all this propaganda. Of course, no one is saying directly that we want cheap slave labour from Ukraine, which works seven days a week for 12 hours a day, but that is exactly what they really want, and that is exactly what this regulation is. When you talk about skilled labour, I would point out that there are already rules in Estonia that allow us to make 18 different exceptions to immigration, and we already have rules that say that people with over average pay will receive work permits more easily. What's the skilled workforce that comes in here with less than average pay? That's cheap labor, that's slave labor. Don't make me laugh. If you say that you want to stand up for the innovativeness of the Estonian economy and the Estonian economy, and then you will do everything to prevent the economy from being innovative in Estonia so that companies can continue to operate by investing as little as possible in innovation, because they can keep their competitive advantage on foreign markets with low labour costs, then you are really focusing the Estonian economy on the path of stagnation and retardation of development. As long as we are hitting the drum with the largest possible import of labour, the same people will not be able to talk about how they stand for innovation or IT or I do not know what they stand for. In fact, the fact is very simple: the more cheap labour can be brought into the country, the less people on the ground can ask for wages, and the less businesses have reason to invest in order to be more productive. I think it is absolutely clear that when we are talking about this proposal, which you are talking about, in order to extend one-year temporary work permits to three years, there is no mention of skilled labour, but of unskilled workers who are actually being brought here by their temporary name as permanent workers. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] How do you make them work together?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U68	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U69	Thank you, good questioner! I think this is where we have a world-view distinction: you are talking about cheap labour, I am talking about the need for more investment in Estonia in order to develop the Estonian economy and Estonian society. For this we need to be open, for that we need to better reconcile our educational agenda so that our own people receive education, especially in the areas of engineering and technology, which are precisely the areas where economic development and innovation take place most. If we look at what is happening in the world with which our companies compete, digitalisation, for example, is a key word for both services and production. Of course, in order to meet the challenges of both services and production, we need people with good digital and technological skills. Having visited a large number of successful Estonian exporters who are active in the production sector, they are technology-intensive and that is their competitive advantage, not cheap labour. If we also look at companies or foreign investments that have been made in Estonia over time, they have all reprofiled their activities towards greater added value rather than talking about cheap labour. I will also give some examples of the median salary. If we take the most recent data on net wages, which were available, from 2019 to 2019, the median net wage in Estonia was 955 euros, Latvia had 682, Lithuania had 632, Poland had 593 euros and the European average was 1447 euros. So our median net wage is two thirds of the European level. Estonia has long since ceased to be a land of cheap labour, and it does not have to be. I don't think it's worth trying to turn that clock back in any way and say that someone wants to make Estonia a land of cheap labour. I certainly do not want that, nor does this government. If there is another party that wishes to do so, then it is important to talk about it in public. Of course, when we talk about filling these labour gaps with the skilled workforce we have here, it is also very important that the monitoring of both tax compliance and their work permits and the actual work of people is strong. That's what we've been talking about with the Homeland Department. It is very important that we raise our supervisory capacity and reward those who are law-abiding, who are tax-abiding. That's how we get to the next level of development.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U70	And now one more question. Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U71	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for this opportunity. Minister, thank you very much. At the seminar on labour migration in Eesti Pank, you argued that we should stop scaring and painting ghost images, and did not recognise at this seminar or today that another relaxation of immigration rules would mean mass immigration. You argued that the solution for us to be able to pay more pensions is to promote immigration. Now I have the question: how do you understand the concept of "mass migration"? In fact, our migration balance for recent years with the eastern Slavic and non-European countries is already in the same order of magnitude as the 1980s, when we had mass immigration. Second fact. Of the 60-69-year-old population of Estonia, 41% belong to the population of foreign origin and this proportion is a result of mass migration. Their family members will also come along with the workers, and the birth rate of immigrants from the East Slavic countries will be lower than that of the indigenous population. If we believe in the statistics of Estonia and the European Union, according to which the birth rate of immigrants from Eastern Slavic countries continues to be lower, and the employment rate of immigration from Asia and African countries is lower than that of our indigenous population, how can you say that promoting immigration helps to pay pensions, although there is a clear logic that this is not the case, and our own experience confirms the opposite. At least if we don't just look at our noses.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U72	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U73	Thank you, good questioner! Indeed, on this topic we also held a lively debate at the seminar of Eesti Pank. Just a few facts. If we are also talking about immigration by nationality, for example, the statistics for 2020 show very clearly that the largest group of returnees are Estonian citizens. And it's very good that our own people, who for various reasons have gone to study or work, have decided to return. I think that one important reason why these people have returned is that they see that it is possible to carry out themselves in Estonia as an open, secure and forward looking country. I am also one of the returnees, and the reason for my return was precisely that I wanted my children to have a strong bond with Estonia and that I should come and be able to contribute here so that our country and society develop and create opportunities for others, so that they too can enjoy the opportunities that the country has given me. So I guess once again, we have no reason to panic about showing that there's a round of people coming from somewhere across the border to work here. This risk simply does not exist and we have never talked about asylum seekers; it is a completely different issue. This is an issue that is now very sharply raised in Belarus and there are completely different solutions. What we are talking about is, in the future, filling the gaps where we lack our skilled workforce for various reasons. I can give an example in the field of information technology, which, once again, is very important for digitalisation. If we look at the investments that businesses need to make and in what area, so that the Estonian higher education system can produce highly qualified people with higher education in engineering and technology, we need more than 250 people with doctoral degrees in the order of magnitude. In order for the training to be of high quality and for young people to have a perspective. These are also issues that we have spoken with the Ministry of Education about how we can create a stronger attraction for young people, particularly in the areas of technology and engineering, and to achieve strong capacity for succeeding in universities. Let's do these things together. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U74	Thank you. I will stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U75	Let's move on to question seven. It is presented by Rene Kokk, a member of the Riigikogu, answers Prime Minister Kaja Kallas and the topic is Estonia's readiness for a possible hybrid attack. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U76	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Apparently, most people in Estonia are familiar with what is happening today on the Polish-Belarus border through various media publications. Thousands of immigrants are trying to smuggle through Poland into Europe illegally. My question is whether you have recently visited different border areas in Estonia and what you are currently assessing Estonia's readiness for a possible similar attack. How are we prepared for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U77	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U78	Thank you. I may not be able to tell you the specific dates when I went, but yes, I have visited these border areas. Indeed, what you are referring to is true. The situation with regard to the border between Belarus and the European Union is dangerous and alarming. As I emphasised earlier, Poland, Latvia and Lithuania are doing what a border country has to do, which is to protect the European Union's border from illegal immigrants. These people are legally in Belarus and they are trying to enter the European Union illegally. First of all, what are we doing by Estonia? At the moment of protection of our border, Poland, Latvia and Lithuania will also begin. We've offered to help. Political assistance is needed, but we have also provided physical assistance, and we are ready to continue to do so. When we came to our border, we decided this morning with the government to organise an additional training meeting of the Defence Forces in order to quickly install border barriers in places where the border has not been constructed. Such a decision has been made and is already being taken. This additional training is currently taking place. As regards the further development of the border, we have a timetable in place, but at the last government meeting on Thursday we discussed how to speed up border building, both in the form of procurement, projects and construction. For my part, I have worked hard in the European Union Council to ensure that European Union funds also have money to build the border. So far, it has been a huge confrontation between the European Commission and the construction of the border is a matter for the Member States themselves. But there was a very strong pressure on the European Commission in the last debate, and I am pleased to note that the President of the European Council, Charles Michel, also said at the end of last week that border funding should come from European funds. So we have a temporary solution to prevent immediately and a long-term solution to build the border, plus all the international and diplomatic steps we are taking to help Poland, Latvia and Lithuania protect the European Union, including us.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U79	And now for the additional question. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U80	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Yes, I certainly agree with that and, in the current situation, it is absolutely right to help our neighbours by all means, so that this situation does not happen again here. As a result, I would like to ask whether the Estonian state is currently in the process of making any additional purchases. Not those that have already been part of the procurement plan, but whether we are now obtaining any resources outside the previous plan to enhance the protection of Estonia's borders.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U81	Thank you. This is exactly what we discussed on Thursday, how to speed up these procurements and the process of building up which is foreseen until 2026, as agreed by the previous governments. We discussed this in the previous cabinet on Thursday. I know that both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Defence have been sitting together several times to find ways of accelerating this border building, with the support of both procurement and projects. We are looking for these solutions and we have a clear desire to build the border faster.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U82	And now one more question. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U83	Thank you. I would like to ask about the Estonian-Russian border and the necessity of protecting it. One thing is that we must always feel that there is a danger, all the more so because we do not have a border agreement and the border building is in progress. But on the other hand, the panic that broke out last week, that Pihkva is an airport, and [migrants] are about to come, and [planes] are going to be directed here, I also find it harmful. In a situation like this, it's a panic. Make sure you're even worse than you're not ready. It's at least as bad as the fact that you're not ready for refugees. I wanted to ask because you are certainly better informed about this than I am about the frequency of illegal border crossing recently. Any sign of anything at all? We used to hear that some villagers near Võru saw the Vietnamese and captured them. And then someone swam across the river and nobody got across the river. But I haven't actually seen any news of it lately. Maybe you have more information? Or is the border so well secured that it is already difficult to get there?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U84	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U85	Thank you, very good question! In fact, migration on the Estonian-Russian border has not risen in 2021, rather the opposite. If we look, in the last six years, the order of magnitude of people detained from the Estonian-Russian border has been declining. While it was 292 people in 2015, 112 people in 2020. This has clearly been a downward trend. Of course, there were COVID in 2020 and people moved less, but if we look at 2019 too, it was 148 people. Actually, there isn't much movement. As regards the crisis in Belarus, I would like to emphasise that this is a hybrid attack in which the Belarusian regime, Lukashenko, uses people as a weapon. They are pushing these people towards the European Union and they are taking advantage of them. These people are legal in Belarus, they have been granted visas to come to Belarus and they are trying illegally to cross the European Union's border, which Poland, Latvia and Lithuania are defending. Now that we are talking about Pihkva, Pihkva is Russia and there must be a visa to come to Russia. We do not know that Russia has somehow relaxed its visa regime. Nor do we know that Russia is planning any major flights to Pihkva. The Pihkva airport is not at this level either. So, as we know, there is no threat to the Estonian border, but it is always worth preparing and we are preparing to avoid such a situation on the Estonian-Russian border.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U86	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U87	Let's move on to question eight. The question is asked by the member of the Riigikogu, Kert Kingo, who is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. The subject is the rule of law. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U88	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! On 25 January, you gave a speech right here in this Chamber, saying: "The sixth crisis is a crisis of truth. We live in an age where lies spread quickly and far away. Winston Churchill said during World War II that the lie is halfway around the world before the truth of the pants gets on. In today's information society, it is easier to publish lies over and over again, and it is almost impossible to prevent them from spreading. " Yet, you yourself have been that person, and it is a very sign that has caused this crisis of truth. You lie consistently here in the Riigikogu Hall and in many places where you give interviews. I am talking here, above all, about compulsory vaccination, which you are still and consistently saying that we do not have it. I would point out that, on 13 April, the WHO has given its position explaining: compulsory vaccination is when a person is subject to restrictions when it is not carried out, either at school, at work or elsewhere. But you're gonna force people to vaccinate here, otherwise they'll be discharged. You have created an opportunity in the form of a risk analysis to be more easily discharged. You yourself have a degree in legal education and you probably understand this WHO explanation very well. That's why I think you're deliberately misleading, lying, and twisting reality. My question is, how long will you continue to lie like this, to vase and to distort the truth? And the second question: how does this kind of lying fit into the rule of law?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U89	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U90	Thank you. In Estonia, 58.4% of all people have been fully vaccinated, I have just checked. If we had a forced vaccination, we'd have 100% of the people vaccinated. It's that simple. But we don't have a forced vaccination. People have the right to refuse vaccination in exactly the same way as they have the right to refuse any other restriction on, for example, the workplaces that are anyway. If you don't want to, you don't have to work in this job. The risk analysis option is designed for employers to assess their risks. It has been in place since 1999 for all companies. For example, at certain workplaces, a risk analysis says that an employee has to wear a helmet. If he wants to work there, put on a helmet. If he says he has a contra-indicated helmet, he can't work in this job because it's dangerous to him or it's dangerous to others. Such restrictions vary widely between workplaces. Some jobs have limits on how you have to dress, how you have to look. These are also restrictions. But a person has the free will to decide whether or not he wants to work there. All the control measures that are currently in place are for places where a person does not have to go, but can walk. We do not have such restrictions in stores. Churches, all people can go. But if there is entertainment where a person can participate but does not have to participate, control measures are provided for. Only vaccinated people will get there, at least as long as the spread of the virus is so high. And all this to protect these unvaccinated people, because the majority of people who get seriously ill are unvaccinated, and that is why it is in their own interest. This is the way other countries have gone. Let's look at what Austria is doing now, where unvaccinated people are shutting down in their homes, because they are the ones who get sick enough to end up in hospitals. If you do not wish to vaccinate, that is the freedom, and that is the path that other countries have chosen.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U91	Now for the additional question. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! As the rule has already become, there was no answer, there is talk of other countries, everything else, but there is no specific answer to the question, and you continued to lie. I quote the following part of this same speech, and this part is: "The worst that a member of a government can do to Estonia is to provoke and escalate conflicts. I'm sure the new cabinet won't do that. We do not share society on the principle of 'we' and 'they'. They're our people, too. We are not going to fight the battle of Ümera... " In short, I'm sorry! "All people want to feel like valuable members of society. " These are your words. However, what has happened is that it is your government that shares 'we' and 'they' into society, that is, vaccinated and unvaccinated people. You will apply priority treatment to vaccinees and non-vaccinated persons for dismissal, discrimination. You are blatantly violating the laws and human rights, and you are doing exactly what you yourself spoke of as a crisis in your speech on 25 January. My question then is, as one of the members of the Riigikogu of your party loved to ask the members of the previous government all the time. Aren't you ashamed? Are you not ashamed because you have been the divider of the people, the sower of anger and hatred and the sower of fear?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U93	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U94	Thank you. A lot of titles you give me. But what I'm saying is that you like to quote this speech and thank you for it. It was quite a speech, even if I said so myself. I'm still behind all this. All the people of Estonia are our people, and that is why we need to protect unvaccinated people, because they are the ones who get sick and can suffer from this disease so seriously that it has very serious consequences. It's also for the protection of these people. The virus isn't ours. This virus is what everyone's resentment should be against because, unfortunately, this virus isn't going anywhere. There was hope that we could overcome this virus, but we have overcome it not only in Estonia but also everywhere else in the world. Of course, I agree that all people want to feel valuable and that all people are valuable. It is just that right now we have a health situation that we have hospitals on one side that may be under this burden, so that they cannot provide scheduled treatment. On the one hand, we have health professionals who can no longer do this work, and on the other hand, there are actually very small requests to all members of society. The first request is that when we come into contact with others in public spaces, we wear a mask because it reduces the spread of the virus. And the second big request is that we vaccinate ourselves because it reduces the spread of the disease and, in fact, the chance that we get to the hospital. That's what we as members of society can do. Indeed, the whole picture of society comes together from all members of society. Every thorn counts! The Health Insurance Fund survey showed how many people prevent one person from having a serious illness. You can get to know these materials for yourself. This is all so that our society can be open so that our children can go to school, and we can actually work in business, so that people can work, etc., so that society can be open, just as it is in the Nordic countries, where the level of vaccination is very high.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U95	A procedural question, Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U96	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I want you to know that I don't need your protection, and I'm not your person. I have a COVID patient at home who is fully vaccinated, and we also have two family members who have not been vaccinated but who have not become ill and are healthy. So we don't need your protection. We can see that what you're telling us about the remote is a propaganda that doesn't correspond to reality. Please read today the letter from the ambulance union members, which has appeared in the media, where they point out the arguments that contradict your statements. Please do not speak for people who do not need to speak for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U97	Thank you. It wasn't procedural, but let's keep going. Valdo Randpere has two options, a very operational member of the Riigikogu we have. A procedural question and then a key question. First of all, Valdo Randpere, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U98	I'd rather have a procedural proposal. Jüri Ratas, if you hear that the question is not procedural and that some sort of agenda is going to be read out for a long time, then stop this question, which is not procedural and do not let it finish, because the real question is also that there is one further question here. I was so busy that I could book it first. Mart Helme was slower. Unfortunately, the laws of nature are such that the slower ones can't ask. But you just let him do it. Please don't do that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U99	Thank you. I'm also going to tell you that it wasn't procedural, it's going to the same opera as the last one. We have no procedural questions in any way limited in time, and I believe that every member of the Riigikogu, in his sense of responsibility, understands that the procedural question must be related to some kind of procedure, to technical concern, and I hope that you will follow it. But now let's move on. A procedural question, Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U100	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office. I just don't know if I saw wrong, or if it was like this, Paul came to Puustusmaa first, and then somebody else was here and then suddenly changed places. Suddenly, Valdo Randpere, who has a question about the matter, appeared there. Those who are away, [remotely connected session], they move backwards. That's a first. And two. I actually thank you for the answer you said to Valdo Randpere, because we see clearly here that it was now proposed by the liberals that the ambassadors of the good Presidency of the Riigikogu be sanctioned, or then interrupted, punished, fired. It's a liberal agenda that needs to prep in this hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U101	Thank you. I will answer this first question about your speech concerning Mr Puustusmaa and Mr Randpere. This order is exactly so that whoever is faster will have the opportunity of this additional question, and it does not depend on whether it is asked from this honourable Riigikogu hall or whether it is currently being asked by way of distance sitting and Question Time from somewhere outside the house or from this house. Let's move on. Additional question, Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U102	Thank you. First of all, I am glad that I was able to prove that I was extremely busy, even though the questioner may have known that before. But now unfortunately, Kert Kingo left the room, I would have liked to help him a little bit. He read the WHO's position, and then he started to accuse you of acting against it. But the WHO is talking about a mandatory vaccination, and Kert Kingo is asking for a coercive vaccination at the same time. Just in case, I looked up the "Estonia from the lyrics dictionary" quickly: it is mandatory to do what must be done, for example, some insurance is compulsory, taxes are compulsory. The coercive is strictly mandatory. For example, a general service is established, which is strictly compulsory. But now I'm actually coming up with the same thing, this mandatory vaccination in some workplaces. Working in Estonia is in no way a human right, but it is not an obligation either. In Soviet times, non-working was parasitic and punished. Today, a person can freely not work. In some workplaces, the requirements are that a person cannot work there. These requirements may include vaccination. If I had to, God forbid I did, but if I had to call an ambulance, I'd really like to know that there are no unvaccinated workers. In addition, I also looked, I can't even say it, but I have an interesting point. I will also tell you my interesting observation and analysis on some of the next questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U103	Please, your question! Procedural question, Kert Kingo, please! A microphone for Kert Kingo, please. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U104	Thank you. Would the chairman be so good as to call the ambassadors to order? Parliament's hall is not a place to share its life stories and to discuss it with itself. The Question Time format provides that MEPs can ask and the members of the government should respond.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U105	Thank you. We are in Question Time, where members of the Riigikogu ask questions and the members of the government should not answer these questions. Okay. Please, Prime Minister Kaja Kallas! Here in this virvard was Valdo Randpere's supplementary question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U106	Thank you. The reference to "Estonia's lyrics dictionary" is certainly very correct. Indeed, as you say, working is not compulsory and there are very clear restrictions on certain jobs. Kalle Grünthal, for example, cannot work as a lawyer because he does not have an education. It's the same restriction, you can't work there. Or there are restrictions in another job, I don't know, on the correct appearance, for example. In the same way, if you don't have such a proper look, you can't work there. There are educational restrictions in a large number of workplaces, and the same requirement for vaccination is actually designed to protect both workers and customers. Just like that helmet example I gave you. There are certain jobs where you have a helmet requirement. I don't think anyone would imagine working in a bank office or a teacher should wear a helmet. This is not foreseen in the risk assessment. At the same time, we cannot imagine that the builder is not wearing a helmet because there is a dangerous situation. So the jobs are very different. And yet I would insist that we do not have a forced vaccination. If we had a forced vaccination, 100% of the people would have been vaccinated, but unfortunately we have 58.4% and we are working every day to convince people that vaccination is reasonable to protect ourselves and others.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U107	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U108	Let us move on to the ninth question posed by Merry Aart. This is answered by Andres Sutt, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology. The subject is the timetable for consolidating information technology. Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U109	[[Remote connection]] The consolidation of national information technology has been discussed at length. As early as 2014, the service centre Valtori was established in the area of government of the Ministry of Finance. The Finnish experience has been studied, I mean, for example, the project "Tori." In May 2020, the Ministry of Finance commissioned an analysis of the organisation of basic ICT services. Recently, the consolidation of information technology, whether it is the role of the State Cloud, the birth of a new state institution or something else, is being discussed more and more frequently. Each of these activities requires a resource: time, people, money, but also a coordinator. That's my question. Perhaps you could describe in a few words what is the state of consolidation of national information technology. But I'm even more interested in what the schedule might be. I know we've been talking about the years 2026 to 2027. Is it realistic, are these things still in force, or are there any changes here?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U110	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U111	Thank you. Good questioner! Indeed, at the beginning of this month, the government decided to move forward with the consolidation of IT basic services, i.e. computer workstation and server infrastructure services. To this end, I also issued a decree that will create the State Information and Communication Technology Centre with the abbreviation RIT. This body will start work in December and a public competition has been announced for the head of this body. RIT is established on the basis of the Registries and Information Systems Centre. Here comes the team, which is also currently providing basic job and server services, and they are moving to RIT at the beginning of next year. In the first stage, the RIT team will also be joined by the Riigipilve team. In the next year, we will reach consolidation of the first areas of government, these services will move under the RIT. The whole project will be completed by the end of 2025, i.e. 2023 So from the time frame referred to in the question, we are faster. It was also my wish that we should make this change as soon as possible. I would also like to stress that we are certainly not just talking about mechanical assembly here. We are also talking about the transition to a new quality of service and the increased use of cloud technology so that we can develop our digital state and our digital society in essence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U112	More question, Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U113	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for your answer. That explains a lot. I didn't know there was a center that was going to do it or that was coordinating all these things, but it's very good to know. But I would ask if there is any understanding, any knowledge of what this financial resource might be. I imagine there are tens of thousands of computers behind it. I am not thinking of a financial resource for computers here, I am thinking of a financial resource for both human resources and all other technical resources and things. Is there any knowledge of the financial resource that could cost?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U114	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U115	Thank you, good questioner! This project will be financed by the recovery facility for an amount of EUR 35 million for the financing period up to 2024. If we had not decided to consolidate the basic services, it would have been more expensive for us over time to keep up the whole of today's system. We have not yet solved all basic IT needs. This EUR 30 million, which is in the budget for 2022, is a long step forward. We will increase our cybersecurity, reduce the share of red tape and thus create a solid foundation so that we can develop new digital society services also by the state. And perhaps I will add that this consolidation will certainly result in some of the services that have been provided today from inside the house, but which we will be able to buy in the future on the market. Perhaps, in fact, the private sector will also have more business opportunities as a result of this process. There are some segments that we certainly cannot buy in from outside for security reasons, for example, we are talking about a cloud of state.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U116	And now one more question. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U117	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! First of all, I'd like to get rid of one question that's left in the air. Kert Kingo was not very grateful that I tried to hand him a hand with the previous question, and he found that I was talking about my life story. It wasn't like that. I'd rather speak Estonian. The Estonian language consists of words; in Estonian, words are like "mandatory" and "suspicious," with different meanings. If Kert Kingo translates WHO documents and finds a word or receives an Estonian translation that says "mandatory," it is not the same as "mandatory." It's just a little bit of a note. But, in general, I must say that I am pleased that it is very reasonable to hear questions in Question Time today, just as it is now. For my part, I will add another question in the field of information technology. I'm sure a lot of people are interested in that too. The question of the last mile has been in the air for years, just like this consolidation. How about this project, where are we with this? When can we say that all the last miles are built now? Is there any perspective, since in the past many had problems with the fact that, although this last mile was more or less ready, these last meters to make the connection, still cost enormously? Is there any hope that there will be some sort of self - regulating of the price below, so that people will really have the strength to pay to join the fast Internet?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U118	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U119	Thank you, good questioner! The last mile is certainly one question which, I think, outside the larger cities, is asked at every meeting, which you probably have with the voters. Two measures are currently underway. The first thing that is done by Elektrilevi or by the current name of Enefit Connect, who was supposed to create during this period, maybe 41000 or 43000 connections. The speed of this movement, and I think it has also been a design problem, has certainly been problematic, because most of these addresses will remain in the following and the next year and maybe a little over a third have been done. That's the subject I'm going to bring up with the developer. The second, 2.0 of the last mile, which expired last month, has reached about 75% of this volume. But in the end, maybe we'll talk about 7,500 addresses if I say the memory right. Looking ahead, this week, the last letter for consultations with local authorities on the next rounds financed by the recovery facility and SRF funds, amounting to 69 million. There certainly the design is different, first it gets the money allocated by municipalities. Every municipality has the opportunity, if it wishes, to create a ranking of the addresses that are most important to them. I certainly wish there would also be a very concrete schedule, at what pace the developers must move, so that we do not have a situation, as we have in the first measure, where this freedom of choice was very high and developments have remained at the end of the period.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U120	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U121	Let's move on to question 10. It is presented by Mart Helme, answers Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, and the subject is the migration crisis. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U122	[[Remote connection]] President-in-Office of the Council. I have a small comment first. I thought for a moment that I would give up asking a question because one of the members of the Reform Party has come here to literally hooliganate and interrupt Question Time. But then I changed my mind about why I should stop him from making a fool of me and Kaja Kallas. Come on! So I am still asking my question, and the question concerns our eastern border and our hybrid attack, the hybrid war, the migration crisis, as anyone wants to call it, but these things are intertwined either way in this situation. The question is not about the southeast border, where the government is now taking some of the pussy steps, namely, yesterday we saw on the news how the barbed wire rolls start rolling towards the southeast border and the pioneers are mobilized for exercises to put these barbed wire rolls in place there. We know there's about 30 kilometers of barbed wire reels to stop it. About 20 miles [30 km] in construction or already built. It's about 60 kilometers from a mile to the southeast of 125.130, the rest of it's still what it is. But completely vulnerable is Lake Lämmijärv and Lake Peipsi, and that is what my question is about. Elmar Vaher has said that there is no problem because there we have good visibility. It is great if we have good visibility there, but how do we prevent hundreds of migrants coming across the ice in winter, for example, from entering Estonia? Do we send all of our Defence Forces, the police and the Defence League with them, if there are women and children there, to wrestle on the ice, or is the government perhaps planning to take an icebreaker to Peipsi to keep a channel that is not constantly frozen and cannot be overcome? How do you think this section of the border can be covered?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U123	Thank you, good questioner, your time! I'm also saying I haven't noticed hooliganism here. Now there is a procedural question, and I want to say that at some point I have to finish this Question Time. A procedural question, Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U124	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office. I saw with my own eyes how I pressed the question, the real question, and I saw it come in front of it, and then it disappeared, and Valdo Randpere came in. There's some kind of fish in here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U125	Thank you. I would certainly ask that the information technology department and officials of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu review whether there is any problem within this system, even during Question Time. And I have a request to the Prime Minister to respond for a maximum of one and a half minutes, because then we must start preparing the Riigikogu sitting. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U126	Thank you. I'll try quickly [to answer]. First of all, you said that it does not matter how politically correct it is to say whether it is a hybrid attack or a migration crisis. There's a very big difference. Belarus and Russia present in their narrative that this is a migration crisis. But it is, in fact, a hybrid attack on Belarus towards the European Union. This approach is supported by all the institutions of the European Union, including our allies in the European Union and NATO. I would advise you not to take over the narrative that is being built by Belarus and Russia. This is not a migration crisis, it is a clear hybrid attack. With regard to the construction of the border, with these different sections, we are going ahead to speed this [process] up. You yourself have been Minister of the Interior from 2019 to 2021. The Minister of the Interior is known to be responsible for the construction of the border, the protection of the border. We have been in the government for a little less time, so the question is, why didn't you take these steps? But don't worry, we will certainly speed up this border construction, including the Narva River, which concerns Lake Peipsi, so how can we ensure that our border is secure in all respects? These are the steps we are taking and are trying to speed up this process.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U127	Thank you. I will stop dealing with this issue. I thank all the members of the Riigikogu who asked questions. I thank the members of the government for their answers. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U128	Ladies and gentlemen, On this fine autumn day, we have the opportunity to open the 8th working week session of the VI plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Now is the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Helir-Valdor Seeder is first. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U129	Thank you, Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, As we are all convinced on several occasions, the chronic problem of the current government is that they are jogging behind events, not reaching decisions in time, and regrettably sometimes they do not reach the necessary decisions at all. This has been the case in managing the corona crisis, so it has been in compensating for the rise in electricity prices, so it has also been in the current security crisis with a risk assessment and action at borders. We are coming up with another problem regarding the security situation, the events at the border. This threat is also very real for Estonia's borders. In order to prevent possible legislative problems, it is necessary to amend national laws in Estonia. As we have seen in Latvia, Lithuania and Poland, people are crossing the border illegally or being forced to cross the border illegally, and Latvia, Lithuania, Poland have adequately implemented different measures so that this does not happen in reality. So that in Estonia people who are not migrants, war refugees, refugees, whoever they are, are not people who have volunteered to move to welfare countries, or who are being forced, as we can see from the border, that we are forced to give these people the opportunity to apply for international protection and refugee status, then the Fatherland will present a draft that will enable this situation to be avoided and ensure Estonia's security better than the current laws do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U130	I don't see any more wishes. I have adopted one draft and, as usual, we will decide on it in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Now we're conducting a presence check. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U131	91 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U132	Okay, let's go to today's agenda. First item, the third reading of the draft law amending the Penal Code and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic, 407. I'm opening negotiations. That's not what you want. The commission has proposed that the final vote on this draft be carried out and we are now preparing it. Ladies and gentlemen, since we just had a presence check, is it okay if we go to the vote? I hope that those colleagues who are far away will feel the same way. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to point out that a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required for the adoption of the draft as a law. I am voting on the draft law amending the law on covered bonds and other laws, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 407. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U133	The bill is supported by 88 members of the Riigikogu and there are no opposing and impartial members. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U134	Bill 395 of the Law on the Amendment of the Construction Code, initiated by the Government of the Republic, is our second item on the agenda and this is the third reading in the same way. I'm opening negotiations. There's no wish for words. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote. I assume we can go to the vote. No objections. Please take a position and vote on the draft law amending the Construction Code initiated by the Government of the Republic in respect of 395.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U135	The draft supports 67 members of the Riigikogu, 15 against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U136	The third item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Public Information Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of Urmas Reinsalu Isamaa, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U137	Honourable representative of the people! On behalf of the Isamaa Group, I have a clear and unambiguous message. The Fatherland fully supports the realisation of public information, the principles of transparency in the public sector. In this spirit, we also tabled amendments to this bill in the basic package. To our astonishment, these government ambassadors did not receive a centimeter's support, not an ounce. The proposals aimed at halting the bureaucracy, systematic and sneaking of the Public Information Act, which is taking place in Estonia, by means of a very extensive and stretching system of secrecy. They were not supported. This is extremely regrettable. Examples of this dynamic need not be sought from far away, but from this morning. The Special Committee on State Budget Control discussed the issue of the procurement of extensive rapid tests, antigen tests, which deviated from the basic procedure of the Public Procurement Act. The Minister of Education answered on several pages why he had been excluded, firstly, from the ordinary procedures of the Public Procurement Act, and, secondly, why these tests were obtained from a single contracting authority, as it later became clear from the information provided by the Health Board, that they were only tests for professional use. I reject the substantive answers, but symptomatic is that the reply to Parliament, signed by the Minister for Education, to get explanations for the public, was fully classified, based on the public information, you will see what an ironic paradox! Understandably, this gave rise to a reasoned debate among the Members of the Commission and, on the basis of my proposal, on the spot, the Minister of Education withdrew from the status of the original document and stated that the document was no longer secret. But you can see how easy things are in our country. The basic procedure laid down in the law is violated, documents are classified and as easy as it is to classify documents; it is as easy to remove the secrecy from these documents, as it is to remove one sentence. In fact, this sales contract between the Republic of Estonia, i.e. the Ministry of Education as a representative of the client, the contracting authority and a specific company, remained secret. Question: why in the Republic of Estonia must these contracts be secret, which will take place, in the amount of millions of euros in procurement with a ten-minute decision-making interval, as the paper writes? The minister's answer was that the company wanted it to be secret, the company needed it, that's why we built the temple, made it secret. It seems that the legal order is transparent, we have digitalised the country, we have mail registers where documents can be accessed. But this is the surface. When you go into the content of important documents of public interest concerning the use of taxpayers' money, which is about the establishment of rules, it becomes clear at the same time how easy it is to classify documents in the Republic of Estonia. Whether it is a request that a company that received priority outside the basic procurement procedure simply received priority, and the company found that these conditions should be classified. This is just how it happens in the Republic of Estonia. This contract is still classified in full. Members of the Commission have this document in place, but members of the Commission are not allowed to speak to the public in full on the basis of sanctions under the Public Information Act under threat of punishment. This, my friends, is the Republic of Estonia 2021! It needs to be changed and the starting point of the change gave, as always, a benevolent hand to the Fatherland. I regret that we are currently at such a stage of governance that they were rejected without any internal debate in Parliament. As a consequence, in this context, due to this logic of behaviour, which did not wish to discuss the proposals to protect the public, public information, freedom of the press, the right of citizens, taxpayers to information that it was not intended to be opened, neither does the Group of the Pro Patria Party consider it possible to take part in the final vote on this draft law and to vote in favour. I am very sorry to say this about Parliament's chair here, but I am even more sorry about the citizens of Estonia, the Estonian press, the public space in Estonia, who have the right to information about the operation of public power, and more importantly, about the misguided activity or not at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U138	Mart Helme, as representative of the EKRE Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U139	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I largely support the views of the previous speaker, but I will add my nuances here. Indeed, we are dealing with a country where much is said about the rule of law, where much is said about the involvement of the people, where much is said about the need for power to be transparent, people need to know what is behind the decisions that concern them. But if we go to reality, go to real life, it turns out that we have a rule of law limping on two legs because we have officials, but also politicians in their wake, or vice versa, learned how to actually carry out procurements with the yokk schemes so that they are opaque, how to organise government with the yokk schemes so that the public really does not know what is being discussed, who is discussing what results are being achieved. We have a great seal everywhere: AK, for official use. And often the deadlines for official use are unreasonable. All of this suggests that the real power, the official body, does not trust the public, fears the public and deceives the public. These are very, very serious danger signs. Such things cannot be accepted. I would like to bring one dimension to this whole debate, which may not directly concern this draft, but which concerns disclosure in the wider sense and secrecy or nonsense in the wider sense. Over the years, I have participated in countless classified meetings in sealed rooms, which are eavesdropping, etc., both in the previous Riigikogu and now and as a minister, and on very many occasions I have left these meetings in total amazement. Because what's been distributed there to the senior leaders of the country doesn't qualify in any way, in no way, to be classified. There is often the most bizarre talk about what we will read in a few days' time in some media, which, in the course of some other debate, will also come to the public in quite a short time than completely unclassified information. Yet it is the picking-up of phones, the signing of signatures that we have attended these meetings and are obliged to keep quiet as a grave and to remain silent over the years. We are showing some kind of analysis that will not be understood when we examine why these people have been paid wages and why these analyses are kept secret, because there is nothing secret about it at the end of the day. Even the most common political observer draws exactly the same conclusions when he is a little concerned with thinking about things. All of this shows that those involved in this secrecy really don't do their job the way they should. There is a very clear question, a very fundamental question. If what is being offered to us as a secret is indeed a secret, are those who really have to work on classified materials and draw important conclusions from the point of view of the security of the Estonian state doing their work badly because they have not really analysed classified material? Or the officials who do this job don't trust politicians who have been allowed to work with the highest state secrets, but are not trusted? They are shared with falsely classified information, falsely classified documents, and actual secrets are somewhere at the disposal and safes of individual authorities and their individual authorities. This is totally unacceptable. Here we come to another extremely fundamental issue: the lack of civil control over the special services and the power authorities. This is the greatest threat to our society as a whole...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U140	Do you need more time? Mr. Helme, do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U141	Yeah, three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U142	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U143	... in fact, the fruits of this threat we constantly feel in our daily political life. When we look at this round game of chairs that we have in the high state offices, we see one and the same star officers orbiting from one place to another. One term of office shall end; it shall be extended for the following term of office. When the two statutory terms of office are completed, they will be moved to another office, again for five years or, in some cases, for seven years, and when the time is up, it will be extended and moved to the next place when this term of office is completed. All of this shows that this mania of secrecy serves one very specific purpose. Certain associations secure the position of the state in the form of this secrecy and possession of its classified information, and this is not in line with the principle of separation of powers; it is not in line with the spirit of the Constitution, nor, of course, with the expectations of the public, nor with the rights of the public to obtain an exhaustive picture of state governance. This is a threat to our national survival, because the official body cannot guarantee the country's survival. Only the entire nation can guarantee the survival of the country. And right now, we're gonna see how the crowd's been blown up. Just now in Question Time, we also heard how no, no, we don't have a forced vaccination, but those who don't, we just let them go. Because you can imagine that some occupations require wearing a helmet. Then put on your helmet, all those who think that wearing a helmet and injecting a vaccine for people forced, threatening to lose a job, losing income, are equal categories. Well, please, that kind of thinking is perfectly consistent with what I described. It is not democratic, it is not the rule of law; it is not in the public interest. By continuing this policy, we are facing very serious problems, because we have just seen how difficult or even difficult we are, but how incapable we are of resolving the crisis in Estonia. If this crisis becomes existential, indeed a hybrid attack that hits Estonia, I would like to see how we can handle it only under the leadership of officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U144	Please! There's no more calls. Let's start preparing the vote. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal of the commission is for a final vote on the draft 409. I shall put to the vote before you a draft law amending the Public Information Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U145	The draft is supported by 57 members of the Riigikogu, 18 against, with 9 abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U146	Our fourth item is the third reading of Bill 414 of the Law amending the Traffic Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. I don't see a call request. The commission has proposed a final vote on draft 414. Since we have just voted, I will not make the call and vote on the draft law amending the traffic law initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U147	With 64 votes in favour, 17 votes against and 1 abstention, the draft was supported and passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U148	Our fifth item is the draft law on land reform initiated by the Government of the Republic and the amendment of other laws 418 at second reading. I would now like to ask for a presentation by the Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs, Tarmo Tamme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U149	[[Remote connection]] Ladies and gentlemen, I hope I hear you well.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U150	Yes, you are, please speak!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U151	Thank you. A meeting of the Commission was held on Tuesday 9 November. Members Merry Aart, Ivari Padar, Martin Repinski, Helir-Valdor Seeder, Andrus Seed and Aivar Viidik took part in the committee meeting. Triinu Rennu, Deputy Director General of the Land Office, Ave Henberg, Legal Adviser to the Legal Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and Glen Roosaar, Adviser to the Treasury Department of the Ministry of the Environment, were invited. We discussed the preparation of draft law amending the Land Reform Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic for the second reading. I introduced a discussion on the agenda and gave the floor to the representative of the Land Office to present the amendments to the draft. Ms Rennu gave an overview of the proposals made during the inclusion process and of the views expressed by the initiator's representative. Mr M. L., who referred to the Commission, proposed to amend the part of the child benefit in the Land Reform Act so that it would no longer be linked to the simultaneous raising of four children, but would have been raised for at least eight years. He also wanted to extend the range of child benefit recipients to the parents of the care family. The initiator of the draft act did not support this proposal. The main reason was that it was not justified to change and wide-ranging the principles of the "child benefit" at the end of the land reform. This benefit is intended for parents raising four children at the same time, as families with children already have a lot of costs, so buying land would be more advantageous for them. The topic of the care family is regulated by the Social Welfare Act, which does not consider the child of the care family to be a direct family member, and the local government covers the cost of maintaining the child from its budget. The Banking Association submitted a proposal as it considered that the rights of the mortgage holder were not sufficiently protected in the public interest proceedings for the acquisition of immovable property. The Union considers that the mortgage holder's consent would always be necessary for the write-off of the mortgage. The Union pointed out that, although the consent of the mortgage holder is necessary under § 271 (1) of the Law on the acquisition of immovable property in the public interest, paragraph 2 nevertheless confers the right to write off the mortgage without the consent of the mortgage holder in a justified case to the decision-making body for the acquisition of immovable property (the judge's assistant). It remains unclear on the basis of which the judge's assistant will assess whether and in what cases the write-off of the mortgage is justified. The representative of the initiator did not support the Banking Union proposal. The situations outlined by the Union are those where a public-interest immovable property has a mortgage which must be released before the acquisition of the land, since the public-interest land owned by the State or the municipality cannot constitute a guarantee for the bank. Previously, the Land Administration has had no problems with the members of the Banking Association and agreements have always been reached with the banks. When the procedure for the acquisition of immovable property begins, the respective mortgage holders shall always be involved and consideration shall be given to how the conditions of the mortgage holder for the release of the immovable property can be ensured. The owner of the immovable property can pass on a specific compensation which he is able to pay to the mortgage holder. If the owner of the immovable property does not agree with the conditions, the Land Administration has previously taken one expropriation decision, which was immediately notified to the bank that the compensation had been paid into the account of the person concerned and had the right to reduce the amount of the mortgage against that compensation. The Law of Property Act also regulates the rights of the mortgage holder. The mortgagekeeper cannot be better protected than the owner of the immovable property, so the originator considers that this regulation is more in the interest of legal clarity. The Land Office, as well as the Transport Board, are struggling today with cases such as these, where people have mortgaged people in their behalf. Such activities are intended to prevent individuals from becoming aware of their debt. For example, mortgages in family circles that are not subject to consent to be extinguished. In order to ensure that the acquisition of immovable property is fit for purpose, it is important to delete the mortgage on immovable property acquired in the public interest. The removal decisions must be furnished not by the assistant judge, but by the organiser of the proceedings, who has been given discretion by law. The role of assistant judge in this procedure is therefore formal. The Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities proposed to supplement the regulation on the use of limited property rights in KAHOS so that it would also apply to apartment property. The initiator's representative did not support the proposal. Paragraph 1 of the KAHOS provides that the owner of the dwelling is to be subject to the provisions relating to the owner of the immovable property. This proposal is therefore already covered by the law in force today. In addition, the Union proposed to amend KAHOS in such a way as to make it possible to notify the owner of the apartment by means of a housing association of a limited right in rem or signs of the intention of compulsory extinguishment. This proposal could not be supported because it is not compatible with the Estonian legal order. It is important to distinguish which messages can be transmitted via the building management company and which must be delivered to the owner of the dwelling. By way of derogation, the law allows the opening of proceedings to be notified through the building management company, but in the event of the deletion of a specific right, the owner of the immovable property, in this case the owner of the property, must be included. A joint proposal was submitted by the Estonian Private Forest Association, the Estonian Agricultural Chamber, the Estonian Farmers' Confederation and the Estonian Owners' Confederation. They did not consider it appropriate to include § 82 in the Land Valuation Act. The justifications were that the possible reduction of already low farm charges is unfair, that the addition of this section would create legal confusion and that the fixing of the user fee at the level of 3% would not be fully justified. The proposal was not supported by the initiator's representative. MHS does not regulate in the public interest the payment for the tolerance of technical networks or installations, as it is governed by the law in force by the law implementing the law of property law. The draft 418 does not concern tolerance fees; it is covered by the draft law amending the Land Valuation Act, the Land Tax Act and other laws, which is pending before the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu. Triinu Rennu explained how the draft farm fee 406 would change when it came into force, and commented on the change in the example of a specific parcel with a current farm fee of EUR 17.53. In a new regular assessment, the land's farm premium of 7,5% would be EUR 96.42. 5 + 1 options were also discussed during the draft procedure, where 5% would be the land-use charge and 1% would be the highest rate for land-revenue land, i.e. compensation for land tax. By the time the draft was drawn up, it had been calculated that on average sales transactions and use transactions were related to each other in such a way that they account for 3% of the value of the land. A proposal was also discussed where 3% would be the land-use charge and 0.5% would be compensation for land tax. With this proposal, the new farm price would be EUR 45. Thus, compared to the rate of the 7,5% farm premium, the payment of the farm premium would increase rather than fall. In the case of Draft 418, the initiator's intention is to establish a general system in order to enable the local authorities, for example, to determine the user charges themselves. The land-use charge is calculated by taking the median land value that has been made available to all by the Land Administration and multiplied by 3%. Thus, municipalities can determine the land use charges themselves with this calculation model and do not need to order expert valuations. In addition, the Unions in their proposal pointed out that the fixing of the user charge at the level of 3% is unjustified. Mr Rennu explained that the reference to the MHS amendments had not been successful. This 3% was also taken into account in the changes concerning the user charges for the usufruct. The application fee of 3% was established by means of an analysis of the transactions, which assessed the sales price of state-owned land in relation to land use charges. Previously, the user fee was 5%, which today would be too high on the market, and therefore the corresponding changes were made. It was also ensured that the amendments to the MHS and Land Reform Act were consistent. Andrus Seed noted that the examples provided used a new land price and asked whether the new land price was already known, even though the valuation was still coming. Triinu Rennu replied that the Land Administration had known about the new land price, as the Land Board constantly complements its valuation models in order for them to be correct. This EUR 96.42 is the farm price calculated on the basis of the new price of the land, if 7.5% is applied, i.e. it shows what the landowner could get from the network operator. This amount is not the value of the immovable property but the amount of the farm premium. Therefore, the expected new price is known to the Land Board as the aim of the agency is to carry out regular evaluation work in the summer or autumn of next year. The new land price has not yet been formally published. Triinu Rennu continued that the proposal, as explained above, also raised doubts as to whether there has been sufficient consideration for the provision of a mandate standard to the Government of the Republic to establish a methodology for assessing growing forests. He explained that this decision had been carefully considered and necessary because, in today's situation, there was insufficient legal clarity as to the valuation principles used for the purpose of transactions. In carrying out transactions, it is important to assess the growing forest as part of the immovable property, since either the property acquired in the public interest or the land transferred may be loaded with forest land and then fair valuation of state assets and fair return are essential. The argument put forward by the associations that it may also be used in regular evaluations is not appropriate, since regular evaluations are regulated by a separate regulation and in these cases only land and not growing forests or buildings are assessed. Therefore, the representative of the initiator of the draft considers that the suspicion raised in the joint return is unfounded. Until now, the assessment of the value of the growing forest on the property has not been specifically regulated for the purpose of carrying out and compensating transactions; therefore, for reasons of legal clarity, it is necessary to establish a common methodology. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications submitted a proposal to supplement KAHOS with Paragraph 11 (31) in such a way that the remuneration is not paid in so far as the acquirer, in agreement with the owner of the immovable property, undertakes to establish a functionally equivalent facility in a new location instead of a building on the immovable property to be acquired. The initiator of the draft act supported the proposal. The amendments were also examined. A total of five amendments were proposed and all of them were taken into account by the Commission. Four proposals were made by the initiator and the fifth by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Finally, procedural decisions were also taken. Draft 418 was proposed to be placed on the agenda for the plenary session by 18 November 2021 (consensus), to propose that the second reading of draft 418 be closed (consensus). When the second reading of draft 418 is closed, it is proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and that the final vote be held on 24 November 2021 (consensus). The consensus decisions were taken by Merry Aart, Ivari Padar, Martin Repinski, Helir-Valdor Seeder, Andrus Seed, Tarmo Tamm and Aivar Viidik. That was the end of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U152	Good Tarmo Tamm! You have questions too. Heiki Hepner starts.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U153	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I'm kind of confused. You said the amendments were five, 4 + 1. When I now looked at the list of amendments, I found six. The Fatherland Party has also tabled an amendment which, in principle, fits in with this sixth amendment, but that is not the proposal of the Fatherland. The content there is almost identical, only one place where there should have been 5% is 3%, that is, as is the law. There were no minutes up on Monday morning; the page on the amendments was not up to be looked at. How do you comment on that? Where could this amendment to the Fatherland have gone in this way, and what is this sixth amendment?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U154	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. This was done at the last moment by the Commission and it was a technical change. But where the amendment to the Fatherland went, I cannot comment on that. I may be able to clarify that and give you an answer for the sake of clarity, but here I can't tell you where it went. If he was on time, he probably couldn't have gone anywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U155	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U156	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good waitress! This draft 7,000 strip, I see that five officials here will be raised to the Land Office and their labour costs will be EUR 138576, very precisely, which will make an average salary of over 2,300. It's mid-level, looking at their paychecks. Is this job so complicated that it requires such a salary number?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U157	I congratulate [for] how thoroughly you view all these drafts and how you process them yourself. That's admirable. We did not really discuss pay levels in the Commission, but these specialists are worth it. I understand that due to this concentration under the Land Administration there will probably be some savings and probably some jobs will disappear and something will be optimised. But, yeah, I guess for a good specialist, this salary isn't high. Unfortunately, we don't all get that salary in public offices yet. I don't know what else to say.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U158	Okay. Heiki Hepner, do you have a procedure or a second question, you both have fingers up? But in any case, please, a microphone for Heiki Hepner.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U159	[[Remote connection]] It's a procedure first. Good chairman of the sitting! Maybe you could help me handle this bill a little bit? I would like to point out once again that neither the list of amendments nor the Commission's minutes was up on Monday morning so that it could have looked at what amendments the Commission had negotiated. This sixth amendment is not technical at all; it broadly coincides with one text of the current draft, but its content or meaning is not technical at all. How should we proceed with this debate now? Indeed, it would still be interesting to know where the amendment to the Fatherland has gone. Maybe the sixth is ours, because there's really been a change of word. What's currently on the list, there's 3%, we had at least 5%. How am I supposed to behave now in the process of handling this bill, maybe give me some guidance?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U160	Yeah, thanks! Let's try... [[T. Oak: Thank you, dear questioner.]] Mr. Oak! Mr. Oak, I'm gonna solve... I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U161	[[Remote connection]] I was reminded from the Commission that this proposal had not been submitted by the Fatherland and that the amendment was to amend only the top number of the section. I have no doubt about that if the Commission officials assure me.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U162	Okay. I will also try to explain myself a little bit, because Mr Hepner asked for the assistance of the President. First of all, as regards the introduction of amendments, it is nice to see that the list of amendments is set out on 15 November, i.e. the day before yesterday. So in this sense, I believe that Mr Hepner may have looked at the wrong bill or the wrong place, but on 15 November this list has indeed been put up there. Secondly, with regard to the amendment by the Fatherland, the rapid control and question to the technical staff of the Commission gave us feedback that they had not received the proposal from the Fatherland. So maybe Mr Hepner can then for the future, today we have a list of amendments here, but for the future, check how it was addressed to the Commission, whether it was oral, whether it was written, to be clarified in the future. I understand that the rapporteur for the Commission, Tarmo Tamm, also says that he received such a signal that the amendment had not been drafted. But as a matter of fact, maybe it went through the committee meeting, Tarmo Tamm can comment on that. But Heiki Hepner now has a question, not a procedural one. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U163	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. In fact, then, I would ask this substantive question, which is linked to this amendment. 2017 Riigikogu passed the Act on tolerance fees, which was also enforced by the Supreme Court, and then the Riigikogu found that 5% is quite appropriate, plus 2.5% land tax would be what should be added. Did the Commission also have substantive calculations, which have taken place in its few years, in essence in three years, that 5% has turned to 3%? And what should the owners who believed in the state's word be 5%?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U164	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for your question. I would first like to thank the President of the sitting; he came very quickly to help and brought clarity to the House. But now, Mr Heiki, in answering this question, I can say that it was not discussed separately in the Commission, either by 3% or by 5%. Unfortunately, there was no such debate in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U165	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U166	Good manager! Good chairman of the committee! It is extremely difficult to read this draft, and it is not the Commission's mistake, but it is common for the Prims to be corrected in the different sections, but it does not really show what is being corrected there. I look here at § 351 has made a lot of improvements, though the sentence has been omitted, though the word has been changed. Perhaps you can explain what correction is 28. In the third sentence of § 351 (2), the part of the text "in force at the time of the privatisation decision' is replaced by "in 2001'. So what's really gonna change? This is certainly very important for those who have privatized something at some point.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U167	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Dear Member of the Riigikogu Aivar, a good colleague! I don't know how to answer you, but I'll make sure you get the responsibility that was essentially changed by this primal. There was no substantive debate about changing this primal one, and I do not know [to say]. If I'm offering you anything here, I'm probably not offering you the most accurate answer. But I'm sure we'll give you that answer, the Commission staff will send you this and you'll get the right answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U168	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U169	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good waitress! I'm coming back to those worker bees. To 7,000 strips, each strip one working hour, a total of 875 working days, or 2.4 years and five officials. So that means 175 working days for every official. My question is, in this context, when the bureaucracy is rampant, where the number of officials should be significantly reduced, does that mean that I read here that the five jobs that go to the Land Office are 175 days. Or are they gonna stay there quietly ticking after and still find a job somewhere? Is there a limit to the length of time they will be given to work on this 7000 strip? Or are they gonna stay there?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U170	[[Remote connection]] Dear colleague Peter, I cannot say this now, as chairman of the committee, whether these staff will remain there and how this work will be reorganized. I think this Earth Administration job will be reorganized. These land operations will also need to be carried out in the future, and which official will move to which place and which role will be played, this was not discussed by the Commission. But I'm sure all these expenses are covered by a general wage fund, which they can't cross in any way. How they carry out their work within this framework and who they pay higher and who they pay lower, it remains up to the head of this field. But the Commission did not really discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U171	Good waitress, more... Still, Aivar Chef, quicker fingers, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U172	Thank you. Frankly, reading this bill still makes no sense what they want to do here and what they want to change. I also look at the amendments to the Land Register Act, there is that § 341 paragraph is amended. Perhaps you can also send us the explanations of the Commission officials that these improvements actually bring to people? It's really hard to read the law. You search the Internet, you don't know what the bill and the corrections are coming to you. It's very difficult to get this pure law, and then put it together with the corrections that there are dozens and dozens. Why don't you help in this place? It's an amendment to the land register law, those points.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U173	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, dear colleague Aivar. There is certainly a need to think more broadly about how to read this law better so that ordinary citizens can understand it. But it is, I think, the subject of all the draft laws, and after all these paragraphs and primins, somewhere must be reflected. How many of them should be unwritten during this debate and how much law should be reflected, I don't know, maybe this text will go too wide. But I certainly promise you that the answers [to these questions] will be what you presented here in the Riigikogu today. But, Aivar, in conclusion, I can say that it will be much easier to privatise land, for example. If there is a strip somewhere, you can measure the borders with your neighbour, for example, and you can change the status of the landowner through the Earth Administration, you don't have to go to the notary. That's one thing. The second is keeping a mortgage, which is expensive for the state, and it can erase these mortgages, where the sums are actually no longer available. This will make this reform simpler, more logical and more understandable. All in all, both landowners and the state should win. But, Aivar, I'm sure you'll get the answers to the questions you asked.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U174	No further questions. The President takes the right to explain to Aivar Koka that the draft law is accompanied by the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, as well as by the amendments, and that the explanatory memorandum contains all these changes in a nice way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U175	Thank you, Mr President, for your help.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U176	Thank you, Mr. Tamm! I'm opening negotiations. Heiki Hepner on behalf of the Isamaa Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U177	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, President-in-Office. I thought, however, a little more about this tolerance fee and explain it to my colleagues. It was passed as a law at the beginning of 2018, but this process had been going on for many years. 2012 The Supreme Court annulled the current law and then debated how much its tolerance fee should be. Ladies and gentlemen of the Riigikogu also dealt with this issue in a very thorough and long way. I think that today, too, we will probably have a lot of Members in the Chamber who then discussed this issue and found really, after an in-depth analysis, a substantive analysis that the farm premium should be 5% of the value of the land plus the tax price of the land, which was and is still 2.5% at the time. After all, it seemed very logical that the tax price of the land would be added to the price of the land and thus 7.5% in total. Now the new draft, which we are currently in the process, says that 3% plus the tax price of the land. My question is: where has the 2% gone? Is this how we create such legal continuity that basically in three years we say that what we have agreed will no longer cost anything? Is it such a legal message for our owners that the laws that the Riigikogu adopts are only for a moment? This is certainly a serious place for us to think, and this 3% is certainly not fair. It is very regrettable that, although the landowners provided input to the Commission, also to the Ministry, this was not taken seriously and was not really discussed, there was no substantive debate. If you worked years ago to find the right percentage, then in one moment it's nothing, and they say that you're suddenly getting too rich, that it's suddenly too much profit for you. Owners who have made a farm fee [applies] no matter whether electric lines, roads or any other communication have been built in these three years, are clearly deceived at the moment. So there is no way to be satisfied with the content of this draft and the 3% proposed. I can't tell you how to solve this. One option would, of course, be to interrupt the current procedure and come back to it once new proposals for improvements have been tabled. However, this is a question that does not provide any end-to-end certainty for owners and does not create a good practice of lawmaking if, in a very short time, we radically change the principles that have been thoroughly analysed and agreed in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U178	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U179	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I wasn't going to talk, but I think we should say a few words when we listen to what Mr Hepner said and Mr Tamme said. On the one hand, very briefly, firstly, this draft is necessary, it is positive. Another thing that is not so positive now that it is again written in such a language of birds, very difficult to grasp, and also the current explanation that was there, which the honourable Tarmo Tamm read out, is quite complicated. I also received no answer about the officials who will deal with these bands and their burden and how long [they work there] as a result of this pandemic, the proliferation of officials and their targeted use. Although money saves, and I repeat, this 7,000 strip is really necessary and should be stopped. But now, in the case of farm charges, it was only when we talked and the Minister of Justice, Maris Lauri, came up with it, the matter of sea windmills, even windmills, of the farm fees, that were on the coordination circle, that totally pulled it on the water. This should be looked at much more seriously. I, too, pointed out behind closed doors in the committee that this also has a bearing on the other farm charges that my colleague Mr Hepner was talking about here on this draft. Here I agree with my colleague, Mr Hepner, that it should actually be discussed a little more calmly, particularly with regard to farm fees and this proposal for forest owners and farmers. It was quite difficult to understand why they did not qualify in this context. But thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U180	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please speak up!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U181	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good people who are watching us through the internship! It's a terrible thing to hear the state retreat from its responsibilities. The tax as such is still a sign of good will on the part of the state. And if 2017 was able to accept it and hold it, is that the message of this year's government that you were previously crazy governments, and then you had to endure it, but now we have this sunset, life is a flower, so you don't need a farm fee. This is exactly how people get used to their disability and the percentage of these trees is reduced. If the problem is people who should need a farm fee, then maybe the point is, "How long do you suffer from sad laughter, take these sad ones and hit the well"? It wasn't good behaviour on the part of the state to make these farm fees harder here. We are still statesmanly, and if we have promised anything, we will stick to that word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U182	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U183	[[Remote connection]] I got an operational response on this toleration fee of 3%, so why isn't it 5%? Owners who have to endure some burden on their land will certainly not lose their money, as this percentage has already been taken into account as a result of an increase in the tax price of the land. Consequently, instead of 5%, it is also 3%. But the bill doesn't deal at all with the level of the farm premium. Tolls come from the law implementing the Law of Property Act. So the owner has no reason to worry that he will receive less money as a toleration fee than he has received so far. The tax price of the land will increase this remuneration anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U184	I don't see any more words. I'm closing the negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. All six amendments have been tabled by the lead committee and have been fully taken into account. Let's read them out. First, second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 418. We're done with second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U185	We will move on to our sixth item, the second reading of the draft law on state family mediation initiated by the Government of the Republic, 438. Heljo Pikhof will present the report of the Hindu Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U186	[[Remote connection]] Hello, everyone! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I will introduce what was done in the lead committee between first and second readings. The Government of the Republic initiated the draft on 27 September inclusive. The first reading took place on 27 October and the deadline for amendments was set at 5 October 2021. In the Riigikogu, four amendments to the draft were tabled by the Group of Isamaa and the draft was submitted in writing by the Ministry of Social Affairs, who is also the author of the draft in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, the Chamber of Lawholders and Bankruptcy Administrators of Estonia, the Association of Estonian Conciliators, the Round Table of Estonian Women's Associations and the Association of Estonian Women's Shadows. All these amendments to the bill are found on the Riigikogu website on this same draft 438 card. The Committee on Legal Affairs prepared a second reading in two sessions. Liisa-Lotta Raag, Adviser to the Department of Children and Families of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Andra Olm and Stella Johanson, Adviser to the Legal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice, Andra Olm and Stella Johanson, Head of the Conciliation Service of the Social Insurance Board Ann Lind-Liiberg, Representative of the Estonian Judicial Association, Chairman of the Viru County Court Liina Naber-Kivisoo, Chairman of the Estonian Conciliation Association Helen Vääne, Adviser to the Chamber of Lawholders and Bankrat Managers Jaan Lõõnik, Adviser to the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities Mailiis Kaljula, Chairman of the Board of the Non-profit Association Children's Protection Association Helika Saar, Member of the Board of the Association Merle Albrant and Secretary General of the Round Table of Estonian Women's Associations Eha Reitelmann took part in the meeting of 8 November. All those involved were heard and the views on the draft were also discussed. At the meeting of 9 November, including Liisa-Lotta Raag, Adviser to the Department of Children and Families of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and Vaike Murumets, Head of the Department of Private Law in the Legal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice, a total of 20 amendments were decided and procedural decisions were also made. Of the four amendments tabled by the Isamaa Group, the proposal to change the title of the draft was supported by the Commission. The other three amendments were rejected by the Commission on the grounds that they were not directly compatible with the objective of the draft. The following are the substantive explanations of the amendments introduced in the draft and the explanatory notes to the content of the three amendments have not been taken into account. These are included in the list of amendments to Amendments 4, 10 and 11 respectively. The Commission also made procedural decisions and proposals. The Committee on Legal Affairs decided to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 17 November and to propose that the second reading be stopped. If the second reading of the draft is completed, the proposal to put the draft to a final vote by 24 November will be referred to the third reading. The majority of the Riigikogu's membership is required for the adoption of the draft act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U187	Good Heljo, colleagues have some questions for you. Priit onion begins. Please, Mr. Onions!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U188	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! I have a question. I do not know whether this was discussed in the committee, at least you did not refer to it, and perhaps it was not discussed that the invitation of family mediators in Estonia was a partner of the Ministry of Social Affairs, issued by the Conciliators' Association since 1998. If I read this bill, the title of which is now the National Family Reconciliation Act, it specifically regulates who can be reconciled, and it can be a person in a contractual relationship with the Social Insurance Board. But those people who got invited may not be. In what form, and what kind of services can those who have dealt with family mediation in Estonia since 1998, continue to provide after the adoption of this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U189	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Indeed, it was discussed in the Commission and perhaps here... I am looking for where the one who has received it was. If the Chamber of Conciliators has issued an invitation, this invitation will also apply to the national family mediation, but Liisa-Lotta Raag of the Ministry of Social Affairs commented on this draft. He explained that the national training programme was 40 hours larger than the private sector, as it included a children's rights module. He agrees to support the proposal that professional family mediators do not have to pass the SKA exam because they have been checked by the Chamber of Commerce, but he cannot accept that the qualifications of other family mediators are not verified. He explained that other trainings were also recognised and not all were required to complete national training, but that their qualifications had to be certified by examination. In the case of professional conciliators, however, he said that a distinction could be made.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U190	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U191	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I'd like to pick up the same question from here, perhaps. I would not like to touch on the way in which the Minister simply gave misinformation to the Commission, as if the members of the Chamber of Conciliators had not passed through this children's hearing module. It's all done there. But my question is how and in what way this competence has slipped into the Social Insurance Office at this point. What international or recognised family mediation training have they completed within 160 hours? Or they have also passed this profession [of training] and now they want to repeal it as they do. Or maybe there's another place where it's possible to get this experience faster and more favorably, so you can start training all the professionals in this field?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U192	[[Remote connection]] Tarmo, you also asked us this question in the Commission. Maybe then I'll comment on what that answer was. In particular, you commented that the Social Insurance Board should also involve experts from outside their institution in close-relationship violence and asked what training had been given by the Social Insurance Board officials so that they could be called experts in close-relationship violence. Liisa-Lotta Raag replied that experts were currently involved from inside the house, but this does not mean that they would not be involved from outside, and it is planned to be dealt with. Liisa-Lotta Raag explained that people working at the Social Insurance Board who have previously been in work at women's support centres and have been in contact with this area for a long time. He assured me that people with appropriate training would be recruited in each department. He also stressed that his own expert on relations violence did not have or know who had exactly what education at the Social Insurance Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U193	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U194	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I am interested in the special circumstances of family mediation contained in Article 11 (1) (3) if one or both of the parties to the conciliation has a mental disorder or a disability of intellect. I have a question as to whether family mediators will also be given access to sensitive personal data, or health data, and where it will be regulated. And I'm also interested in this, let's say, abstract wording: intellectual disability. How is this intellectual disability identified, identified, and what kind of document is it that says it is intellectual?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U195	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I do not have it right now, but I am saying that we did not discuss it more precisely in the Commission. But, of course, if you answer your question, it's not always a mental disorder and a disability. A person doesn't always have a diagnosis. In this sense, in some cases, it is well known, but if a family conspiracy has such a suspicion that there might be some kind of disability, then it is a special case.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U196	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U197	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good waitress! It's an important law, but there are so many nuances. Let me ask you a question like that. I read here that until now, you don't have to take into account what children say in this family mediation process. But then there is some Brussels IIb regulation that will apply from 1 August next year, Article 21 says that a child who is able to have a position must also be given the opportunity to speak. Is that what we need to expect from Brussels, so that we can also take into account the opinion of a child who can have his or her own position?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U198	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. That's a good question. When we look at the table of the amendments, Amendment 9 says to amend the text of § 10 of the draft text and to formulate it as follows: "In order to determine the child's interests, the child affected by the dispute must be given the opportunity to express his or her opinion during the conciliation procedure. The child must be heard in an appropriate manner taking into account his or her age and level of development. The hearing of a child may be waived if the child concerned in the dispute has been heard within the six months preceding the start of the conciliation procedure by a child protection worker or another person working with the child in relation to the facts which are the subject of the conciliation procedure or if, taking into account the age and level of development of the child, it is not possible to hear the child." Similarly, it has been said here that, in order to avoid repeated hearing of the child, the family mediator will, if necessary, cooperate with the child welfare officer or other persons working with the child, etc., etc. In short, I am not going to read all these paragraphs here, but if we look at § 10 (1), it actually got into the law with an amendment and can only be rejoiced about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U199	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U200	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. In this sense, indeed, this amendment, to which you referred last, will help to make it better that this original text was a total disaster. However, it does not make sense why children need to be put into this at all, and I think they should be rather exceptional cases. But I have a question about terminology at all in general, it seems to me to be a bit controversial. If, until now, people were able to turn to a professional family mediator without any mention in the public domain, then now, according to the law, when this contract is finally concluded, the national register will record it. I don't know if you discussed whether and how reasonable it is, and if no agreement is reached, whether or not what indication will come, will the "conciliation" fail and somehow go into writing this description, or what will happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U201	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for your question. We didn't discuss it more precisely. But the national family mediation service is free of charge, it's a big plus that service does. Not everyone is able to pay.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U202	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U203	Thank you, Mr President. Good Commission waitress! I mean, since people are watching it now and want to find out what this family deal is, I'm going to ask you a question like this. Initiating family mediation requires the will and desire and consent of both parties, i.e. the consent of both mother and father. In this light, it is unclear to me who will then be reconciled, because there are other ways in which the parents who have signed agreements can fix them, whether it be a notary or some other method. Why do people who are not in a fight, who are both willing to enter into agreements, need some family mediation service?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U204	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. In general, the reconciliation service is still for those who cannot agree with each other, but agrees with the family mediation service. It is not necessary, however, for the interests of the children to find an agreement, to agree, if necessary, on the right to communicate with the child, as well as on matters relating to the maintenance of the minor child.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U205	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U206	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I have a question for you, as a Social Democrat, that perhaps yes, the Ministry does not see that a child needs more protection. But don't you think that children are weaker, more vulnerable in our society and shouldn't be involved in these parental disputes? My question is, I didn't see the social democrats running to the barricades now, but do you sense that there is a barrage in § 22 of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U207	[[Remote connection]] In order to determine the child's interests, it is still essential to give him or her the opportunity to express his or her opinion. It has also been said in this law when it is not asked: if there is already any prior knowledge of the child's connection to the procedure, or if the child has already been heard in these circumstances, there will be no double questioning. Of course, the child's level of development and age must also be taken into account. After all, even when health care is provided, you must listen to the opinion of a child of a certain age.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U208	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U209	Thank you, Mr President. I'd still be interested in hearing a child here and not listening. As a general rule, the parent with whom the child lives has a very large influence over the activities of his child, and in that case the child is still affected by the parent with whom he or she lives. For this reason, however, I dare to assume that making this decision about hearing a child is not always the right thing for an incompetent person or, let's say, a person with little experience. The second question is that the same family mediator is actually open to the influence of a more financially insured parent. How have you tried to avoid these problems?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U210	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I do not understand how he is more positive about a materially insured parent, because this service is free of charge. As regards whether or not one parent may influence the child, I think that the official speaking to the child still has the necessary knowledge that he or she will still get an objective picture of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U211	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U212	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In August, Türi had a very unpleasant and painful incident, where in the middle of the night children were taken away from their mother and handed over to their father because he was entitled to them by judgment. As far as I could remember, there was this sentence that this family had been dealt with by a family maker. This is now the result that we see that the family mediator may have participated, but if the result of this reconciliation is that the father, who has obtained justice through the court, will exercise his rights in the middle of the night, I think this is not the best solution. How effective do you think this family mediation service was at that moment in the light of this case?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U213	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. In fact, I don't know if the family mediation service was at all in the case you're talking about. However, if the parents fail to reach an agreement or if one party does not want a conciliation service, there will be no conciliation. That's the only way it's a trial.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U214	No further questions. Thank you! It is now possible to open negotiations. Kalle Grünthal, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U215	Ladies and gentlemen, Good people who look at us! I believe that this national law on family mediation has been drafted in principle in absolute good faith with a desire to improve the situation that we have now encountered a problem. The purpose of the proposal is to support parents following their break-up in reaching agreement on the future life arrangements of their minor child and to encourage their parents to cooperate in raising the child, thereby ensuring that the child's interests are protected and well-being is in principle of great value. But as always, there is. The question now is that, in my opinion, this bill has been drafted in a relatively private office without knowing and knowing the kitchen side of this vital and very important problem. Unfortunately or fortunately, I have had to deal with these situations with my long trials. On the basis of my practice and examples, I can say that this good draft does not actually fulfil its substantive objective. First of all, I remember that when this bill came into this hall, it was said that it was to reduce the number of courtrooms and resolve these parental contradictions. What I can say is that actually, in the case of the separation of parents, yes, in the case of marriage, marriage is divorced and this can be done with the agreement of the parties without any judicial intervention. However, there are criteria in which it is not possible to divorce this marriage without a court of law. These are when parents argue about raising a child, and even when parents argue about sharing property. In normal practice, these things go hand in hand. And even if children have been "divided" and an agreement has been reached on how to raise them, it does not in fact reduce the number of courtrooms, because the dispute over property may still remain. So this effect here cannot be achieved. This also applies to normal partnerships, since there are also the same criteria in which those property rights over the property acquired during the marriage can be decisive. What's the situation now? It is currently the case that, when examining the child's question, the court will also involve the guardianship authority in giving its opinion. This is done through State resources, from which the guardian will then receive a corresponding remuneration and are relatively rational. It is also an advantage that the person who settles the case in the judicial system, that is, the judge, has absolute authority, he is heard, he is able to silence even the most aggressive of arguments. This probably cannot be done in a family mediation system. Another important factor is that the judge has absolute experience, one that is not available to family mediators with the current training. His experience is based on long-term judicial decisions. He sees it, he appreciates the possibilities of resolving the matter so that the parties are satisfied. Although I also say that, according to my practice, 70% of all those who have turned to the court will be able to reach this very simple solution, somewhere 20% will be able to settle normally and somewhere 10%, quoting this law now, is [related] either to mental disorders or intellectual disabilities, which even the judges do not overcome. Therefore, I do not see the possibility of a family mediator being able to solve the problems of people with mental disorders or intellectual disabilities. Another problem is that family mediation is that the guardian in court proceedings and here too, the family conspiracy, in any case, is still developing a certain preference for one side. It develops in such a way that just one parent can justify his views much more effectively, and sometimes appearance may also be a problem in this matter. The family mediator is absolutely not impartial. I also asked the honourable rapporteur today what is the motive for material influence and what will happen when it is implemented. I didn't get a very clear answer. But what I'm trying to say is that a person in a better physical state can influence a family mediation by means of certain gifts, monetary values, in order to get a positive result for himself. And the result? The other side doesn't agree, one is unhappy, and we're still back in court. So he's kind of a vicious circle. What else I have noticed is that there is a question of hearing a child in the conciliation procedure. It's basically saying it's okay, but it doesn't have to be heard. What I'm trying to say is that a child who really loves both parents and who he lives with at that point is encased and doesn't want to get into this circle of problems, but a judge in his practice is capable of breaking through this capsule of his and getting a result that is objective. The special cases of family mediation, where one parent has a mental disorder or an intellectual disability, are also completely incomprehensible to me. Well, damn it, I'm gonna say it straight, it's not like they're the specialists that can make that assessment, and they don't have the right to handle personal data. But I think the whole thing is about money, financing. 520000 of the state budget and 258000 of the Norwegian grant, a total of EUR 778000. It's just a matter of the moment of the money distribution. Maybe it seems to me, and I'm doing too much, but this law is still not ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U216	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U217	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, I read the bill too. In some respects, you can even agree with the previous speaker, but not in all aspects. Certainly in the same form, I do not pay attention to it and talk about the things that cause me most concern or headaches. First of all, I do not understand at all, or well, surely this bill cannot be called the beauty of a long time made, although indeed, during the previous government, it has already been prepared and delivered. I have to admit, even then, I was not too enthusiastic about it. But in the process of creating it, I think he's gotten even worse. Firstly, since 1998, as I asked the question, we have an association of conciliators who issue invitations as a partner of the Ministry of Social Affairs. Today there are also professional family mediators. If we adopt this law, these professional family mediators will certainly no longer have any work or place under this law. This does not mean that they have to actually stop their activities, but they have to look elsewhere for a legal basis for their services and activities than for a national family mediation [service] law. This is for the simple reason that § 3 has terms, and when the law talks about family mediation, the terms already refer to a family mediator who, as I said earlier, is a person in a contractual relationship with the SKA. And in reality, there is already talk here of a purely parental agreement, which means that the content of this service is the resolution of disputes about the life organisation of a minor child in the light of the child's interests. We all understand that in the context of family and family mediation, there is a rather narrow ampluaa and area. Family mediation in itself is much wider than what is written here under the term. The second aspect, which I think may not be the most sensible one. If people in their current form go to this service, the specialist will receive help and, as we discussed at first reading, it will certainly be difficult and difficult for parents, let alone children. I don't want anyone standing in front of that kind of thing. But now there's a national register that if people can get a deal and it's confirmed in the SCA, that contract will be recorded in the register. I don't exactly understand why and who and in what form it is needed, although it is true that ex-court settlements are also public for those who want to look for it. I certainly do not share in this sense, although I understand the joy or optimism of a member of the Social Democratic Party that this service is now free of charge. First of all, there is nothing free of charge for the previous speaker to describe how much it costs. This week it was possible to read how many more civil servants had emerged. There will be 44 more officials with this bill. I don't understand why the state couldn't buy in this service. For those target groups for whom it is not viable and affordable, it would certainly be possible to compensate for this service in such cases, so that this service is not lost. This does not require the state to employ people to provide services to people. It's about terminology. There are two more paragraphs that bother me about this bill. One is § 10, which refers to children. I think that children's rights must be taken into account here absolutely, and certainly in the course of the amendments to this draft it has become much better than the original wording. But in my opinion, it would still be reasonable to involve children only in cases where this is considered extremely necessary. In other cases, in my opinion, when people make agreements between themselves, it is not appropriate to devote children to this. And the second is Article 11, which talks about family mediation in special cases... I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U218	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U219	... that if the international family mediation does not deal with essentially unequal partners within the framework of this family agreement, i.e. if there is violence in the family or something else, this service is not actually provided in this form. That doesn't mean people don't get help. Of course, as I described, there are different services, etc., but this service is not a family agreement. But we even write into our law a separate section on cases where I am not a specialist, but as much as I have understood, this international family mediation does not deal with the regulation of relations between such parties. For these reasons, on behalf of the Isamaa Group, I propose that the second reading of this draft be interrupted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U220	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U221	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good coworkers, you're on the other side of the screen. And, of course, people who are interested in what's going on here! I have to say two things first. In the world view, there's been a bit of crossover here, and I'd rather have seen people on my left here say, oh-oh-oh, kids need to be protected. But I also understand that in their case, family is an extremely abstract concept. Then we conservatives must actually protect these children. That's the first, most important point here. But I might come to another thing. I have experience with very bad practice. The first was that Tallinn provided free legal aid. It was the brother of the Chairman of the Council, Toomas Vitsut, who gave us [the advice] in the Liberty Square. I guess it was because a person showed up, told me his problem, and he said you had to take a lawyer. It was so overwhelming: he listened to the person, but it was free. Now, if you want better advice, you're gonna have to come up with some money. In the meantime, medical [service] was also practiced in Tallinn, i.e. medical students and trainees listened to the person, the person said he had it and it, and then the answer was that you should contact a doctor or a family doctor. That sounds just like those travelers. Travellers or escorts for a long time. If we now want to make such a free family agreement, I think that all children, regardless of their financial situation, and parents and families should still receive a good, high-quality [service] equally. The fact that he is free of charge is not free of charge! He is jointly funded, it will be paid by all taxpayers to honour this huge number of jobs that will be created. So I can't accept it, but it's free. If the result later can be because the international family mediation is much wider and what is offered for free is narrower, then it is said that you should contact the Estonian Association of Family Dealers. It's gonna cost you, but, uh... Is that what we need? Now the second question is that we actually have the most important constitution. In the Constitution, we have several and several sections that protect the family. What about the kid's interrogation? Yes, it's an interrogation, it's an interrogation, but do you think that, for example, a 13-year-old child will understand exactly if a social worker or child welfare specialist speaks to him in an urgent tone: tell me how you are now! The third paragraph of § 22 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia tells us beautifully: no one must be forced to testify against themselves or their loved ones. Perhaps at the moment the child is asked, the parents should actually be there. And if we take here § 26, for example, that everyone has the right to family and private life or [§ 27] that [family] as the basis of the people's survival and growth and society is protected by the state, then we should be extremely precise. But what is a very big contradiction in the world is that at this point, when two grown-ups who have created their union out of happiness and love are at some point in misunderstandings, the child must endure it on a daily basis. And now it's like a module from hearing it. I think we could have these few very experienced specialists who, according to the age of the child, maybe with a playful lightness [to be clear] and you should also be thinking of § 22 of the Constitution, so that the child does not have to talk about matters in the family. This information should have been received from the competent authorities. I do not believe that in every area we have very competent people who specifically do so, and that after six months we can say that, or we have to tear open the wounds of the child again, say that procedural mistakes were before, now we ask again whether Daddy came home at that time, whether Mommy came home at that time and so, so, so. We must protect children whether this service is financially or whether it is jointly funded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U222	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U223	[[Remote connection]] Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, this draft itself is like a positive one, and I repeat again that it is one of the few that is not a direct retraction of the directive. Although its funding is again based on money beyond the borders, it is based on Norwegian and European money. This bill began to be drawn up during the previous government as Minister of Riina Solman. I don't know how he's been deformed ever since. Some details are, if I remember from Riina Solman's time, that one of these sessions costs 60 to 90 euros, and now there is 60 to 120 euros in the explanatory memorandum. But that's it. Several of these things that there will be 44 new conciliators and coordinators, four more, and all this will be great. But I knocked out that map of what family mediation looks like right now. Estonia is divided into three, the rest is white, where there is nothing in the municipalities, and the best is dark blue, but this dark blue archipelago is actually running somewhere through Central Estonia. And the periphery is light blue or predominantly white, where it is not possible and where the municipality does not pay, but it pays for those who have the worst. Looking at this map and reading this bill today, I can hardly get rid of this morning's closed session of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, where the National Audit Office presented what has happened to the dental benefit of adults. I can't say it in public today, but four years after it started, the goals have gone quite second. The money's gone not to the left, but to the right, and it's pretty big, but after a while, you can tell me more about it. I was wondering what the audit of the National Audit Office would be like five years after the adoption of this law, which, I repeat, in itself is positive. I come back to what has been said here about hearing or not listening to children, the ideological approach to what is right or wrong. A bit strange or appalling is that I quote once again in the draft [it is written] that Brussels says, the Brussels IIb regulation, which will apply from 1 August next year, Article 21 says that a child must be heard when he or she has his or her opinion. It's put in here nicely, so-called welded into this bill, no matter what they think about it. In my opinion, however, you might well think about who to listen to or not to listen to. There are many problems here, I am not a member of the Social Affairs Committee, but everything comes back to the people who are there. What is the competence of those who control them, who gets this job, and who will mediate there? First of all, I stress that this family policy is the most important thing in Estonia and we should also have a parliament. The first thing to do with the arrival of the new government was to eliminate the Special Demography Commission and the Minister of Population. If we are now talking about family mediation, whether paid or not, then we actually have to attend training courses, courses and then drive until today if you want to get a driver's license. But to get married and get in a relationship, you don't need any training. It will not be paid by anyone themselves or by the municipality or the state. In fact, I repeat once again: a very important law, all family policy matters should be Estonia's priority. But it could go back to those nuances, the many nuances I drew attention to, and I certainly didn't get to many. So experts could look very seriously at this bill and think about the audit of the National Audit Office five years after the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U224	There are no further requests to speak. I'm closing the negotiations. Let us examine the amendments that have been made to this draft. The first amendment, tabled by the Isamaa Group, has been fully taken into account by the Committee on Legal Affairs. The second amendment, the Committee on Legal Affairs, has been fully taken into account. The third amendment, the Committee on Legal Affairs, has been fully taken into account. The fourth amendment, tabled by the Isamaa Group, has been rejected by the Committee on Legal Affairs, but is not to be voted in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Rules of Procedure Act. Amendment 5, Committee on Legal Affairs, fully taken into account. The sixth amendment, the Committee on Legal Affairs, has been taken fully into account. The seventh amendment, the Committee on Legal Affairs, has been taken fully into account. The eighth amendment, the Committee on Legal Affairs, has been taken fully into account. The ninth amendment, the Committee on Legal Affairs, has been taken fully into account. The tenth amendment, tabled by the Isamaa Group, has been rejected by the Committee on Legal Affairs. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U225	On behalf of the Isamaa Group, I ask for this motion to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U226	Okay, I got it. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me remind you that we are discussing a draft law on family mediation. There is the tenth amendment tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, the Committee on Legal Affairs has failed. It was put to the vote by the Isamaa Group. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U227	The proposal was supported by 29 members of the Riigikogu, 51 against; the proposal was not supported. Amendment 11 has been tabled by the Group of the Fatherland; the Committee on Legal Affairs has failed. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U228	I would like to ask you to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U229	Okay, I got it. Dear Riigikogu, I put to the vote before you Amendment 11, tabled by the Isamaa Group, the Committee on Legal Affairs has failed. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U230	The proposal was supported by 28 members of the Riigikogu; 53 were opposed; the proposal was not supported. Amendment 12, tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, fully taken into account. 13th, the Committee on Legal Affairs, fully accounted for. 14, the Committee on Legal Affairs, fully accounted for. 15th, Legal Affairs Committee, fully accounted for. Sixteenth, the Committee on Legal Affairs, fully accounted for. 17th, Legal Affairs Committee, fully accounted for. 18th, Legal Affairs Committee, fully accounted for. 19. The Committee on Legal Affairs, fully accounted for. And 20, the Committee on Legal Affairs, fully accounted for. We have examined the amendments. The President has received a proposal from the Isamaa Group to interrupt the second reading of draft law 438 on state family mediation initiated by the Government of the Republic. That is what we need to vote through. I hope that we can go to the vote because we have just voted on the amendments. No objections. Honourable Riigikogu, please take a position on the proposal of the Isamaa Group to interrupt the second reading of the draft law on state family mediation initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U231	The proposal for interruption was supported by 30 members of the Riigikogu, with 56 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. We're done with second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U232	We will move on to the seventh item, which is the second reading of the State Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Code of Civil Procedure and the Act amending other laws. The presentation will be made by Urve Tiidus, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U233	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The preparation of the draft law amending the State Fees Act, the Civil Procedure Code and other laws for the second and third reading took place in the Committee on Legal Affairs on 8 November. Representatives of the Ministry of Justice and the Bar Association took part in the discussion. As a reminder of this draft, most of the state fees, which this draft amends, were last adjusted in 2011 and still come from earlier times. It is also important that this draft does not intend to change the state fees for family law claims and proceedings without an action. One proposal was made for an extension of the time limit for service of documents in court proceedings from five to ten days. This was done by the Estonian Bar Association and the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. The Commission's short consultation made it clear that it was a wish to extend further the time for service of documents in court proceedings to legal persons, i.e. companies to their e-mail address, namely from five to ten days. In fact, this time has already been extended from three days, as stipulated by the Code of Civil Procedure, to five days, but was requested from five to ten. Vice-Chancellor Viljar Peep informed the Commission that the Ministry of Justice did not support the proposal made as the initiator of the draft. He explained that according to the case law of the Supreme Court, the company should still check this e-mail in its daily professional activities. This period has been postponed to five days in the draft, and any other parts of the procedure may be extended by extending this period further, and that is certainly not the aim. Moreover, companies have already been granted a derogation in order to extend the deadline. It was also interesting that the attorney-at-law Greinoman, representing the Bar Association, justified his wish to extend the deadline by comparing the practice between Estonia and the USA, Canada and the United Kingdom. In these Anglo-American countries, there is no such regulation that an internal document is passed on to a person without him knowing what to expect. A representative of the Bar Association also expressed the opinion that many entrepreneurs are small businesses with no legal knowledge or technical capabilities. People need to get used to checking their mail boxes and spam folders all the time. The Attorney General maintained his proposal to extend from five to ten days. Eneli Kivi, adviser to the Ministry of Justice, further explained that in the Estonian legal order companies are obliged to keep their e-mail address up to date in the business register and that is why such an innovative proposal can be made. The Commission made decisions. It was decided to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 17 November, i.e. today, to propose that the second reading be closed. And when the second reading is closed, propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and that the final vote be taken on 24 November. The decisions were all consensual and made by Marek Jürgenson, Sulev Kannimäe, Jaanus Karilaid, Uno Kaskpeit, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Heljo Pikhof, Anti Poolamets, Urve Tiidus and Vilja Toomast. That's all for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U234	Thank you. You could ask questions, but there are no questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U235	It's nice, thank you! Be well!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U236	It is now possible to go to negotiations if no questions were asked. Please, Kalle Grünthal! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U237	Ladies and gentlemen, We have before us a law amending the state fee law, the civil procedure code and other laws, which raises the state tax rates. It is not only about this bill, but also about the principle of why it is being done. If we remember, Minister for Justice Maris Lauri came to this hall first by trying to reduce court access if it is malicious by raising state fees. I think it's a very strange argument. Remember, look at the verbatim. This will reduce the burden on the court and will give the courts more money. I don't think the courts can get any more money, it's still going to the state budget. But it is precisely the same claim to reduce the incidence of bad or malicious actions or complaints that is completely absurd. I don't know any people who would like to go to court and argue there, ruin their nerves, get a lawyer's bill if they don't accept the complaint or the lawsuit. I'll be honest with you, I don't know such a fool. I don't know. So this statement that we want to reduce something in terms of malicious actions is basically irrelevant. The second question is actually that, and the danger I see now is that we remember how the rates of state fees in the 90s were very high, and that in fact also prevented people from applying to the courts for the protection of their violated, allegedly violated rights and asking the court for help. At one point, this high rate of state tax ship ran on the reef, because the Supreme Court passed a decision that turning to court cannot be a source of money for the state. And so he went, the rates of state fees ran down to normal levels and were there so far, and I think that makes sense. I am very sad that both the Ministry of Justice and the Legal Affairs Committee of our Riigikogu have now forgotten this very important principle. What else is wrong with this bill? By raising these state fees, we are shutting people's mouths, because they simply do not have the funds to pay the state fee in order to go to court to protect their violated rights. Yeah, maybe we're reducing court action, but is it still the rule of law when we set financial barriers to this? That's why the proverb is that rich people ride in a carriage, poor people hang in a gallows, because it's not possible to just enforce the protection of their rights. It's very sad and it's a very, very dangerous approach. This is not just about state fees. There will be other different costs, costs of examining the case, expert fees if necessary, and, in general, ordinary people, without such legal qualifications, will not be able to realise their rights. Because even if you're a thousand times right, a thousand times you may be right, but if you fail to do some sort of procedural or procedural act, it's too late after that. The other side just lynches you by not doing the right thing at the right time. Qualified legal assistance is needed to prevent this from happening. But it's gonna cost again. If we add all these things together, for God's sake, I don't understand where this Ministry of Justice, or rather the Minister of Justice, Maris Lauri, thinks it will reduce the number of malicious hearings. It's completely out of the ceiling. I am of the opinion, and the EKRE is also of the opinion that such a restriction on human rights regarding court proceedings and the realisation of our rights cannot be tolerated because the Supreme Court has given us guidelines in advance and we must follow them. We shouldn't even process this law at all. More important than a purse for the state is the right of people to realise their constitutional rights through legal proceedings and without the use of additional means of payment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U238	Thank you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U239	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I remember that night, already approaching the night when Minister of Justice Maris Lauri introduced this bill to us here in the grand hall of the Riigikogu. If you remember, we were also interested, despite the hour of the night, that in the shadow of the night now these charges are being raised. There's five pages here. And when I asked you and my colleague Grünthal and others, we got such an answer that you would ask pointless questions. Minister of Justice, a member of the Government of the Republic tells us, the ambassadors who are his employer, that we are asking pointless questions. I also asked pointless questions. One pointless question was that I just wanted to know how these fees have risen as differently as they are from the same things, only the authorities and companies are different. How do they increase by 30%, 150%, 59%, or 40%? The Minister of Justice promised to answer me, but to this day, these answers have not come. But I'm gonna bring out a few of those things again. For example, if you want to enter a self-employed person in a business register, the state fee will increase by 54%. Why is it rising? Here's what we're gonna do: if you want to register a limited company or a limited company, the same thing, in fact, the same activity, it's gonna rise by 39%. But in order not to impose more burdens, [new] different percentages from the five pages that rise: if you want to enter a land improvement cooperative in the register, it will rise by 50%, not by 51 or 38 or 150. But there are no answers to them to this day. We have a second reading now, but I haven't seen them. Previously, when the Minister of Justice was Raivo Aeg and I turned to the same questions for a similar draft, I later received these calculations in quite detail how much paper goes on how many officials go on. But the current Minister of Justice has considered it necessary, arrogantly, apart from me and my colleagues asking pointless questions in the shadow of the night, that there is no need to even know or to rewrite what is. It's kind of a small detail, but I think it reflects a general attitude. The fact that time has moved on and should [fees] raise . Yes, of course, prices are increasing all the time. A little specific, no answers were given to the vigilante. But the second reading is already full of noise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U240	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. There were no amendments to the draft; we cannot vote on them. The commission has proposed that the second reading of draft 443 be discontinued. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U241	Today's eighth item is the second reading of the Financial Supervision Authority Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act amending other laws 422. The rapporteur is Aivar Kokk, Vice-Chairman of the Monetary Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U242	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the law amending the Financial Supervision Authority Act and other laws at its meeting on 8 November. No proposals were submitted within the deadline for tabling amendments. The Committee on Finance also addressed eight interest groups, market participants and institutions. The Estonian Banking Association, FinanceEstonia and Funderbeam submitted their proposals. In response, the Ministry of Finance proposed six amendments to the Commission, which were supported by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Committee on Finance decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by today's 17 November, the second reading to be closed and, when the second reading is closed, that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and that the final vote be held on 24 November. Procedural decisions were taken in a consensual manner.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U243	Thank you very much. There are no questions. I'm opening negotiations. I don't see the wish to negotiate. I'm closing the negotiations. There have also been amendments to the draft; we must review them. The total number of amendments is six. The first player is the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the lead committee has taken full account of this. The second amendment is also made by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and has taken full account of it. The third amendment, the author of the amendment, is the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and the commission has taken full account of it. The fourth amendment, which is made by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 5, the author is the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and the commission has taken full account of this. And the sixth amendment, the author is the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and the commission has taken full account of it. We have examined all the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 422. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U244	Today's ninth item on the agenda is the second reading of the Gambling Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Amending Law on the State Budget Act 459. The rapporteur is Aivar Kokk, Vice-Chairman of the Monetary Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U245	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 9 November, the Finance Committee discussed the preparation of the Gambling Tax Act and the Draft Amending Act on the State Budget for a second reading. The deadline for submitting amendments, which was 3 November at 5.15 p.m., received three amendments: from the Isamaa Group, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party and the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Unfortunately, most of the proposals in the Committee on Monetary Affairs were not supported. Mr Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of Finance, also attended the meeting of the Commission. I asked the Minister that, at first reading, he promised to support amendments that did not change the areas where gambling tax money would be received. The Minister explained that the areas cannot be retained in the Gambling Tax Act. The fields will be listed in the State Budget Act since it is planned that the level of funding will be fixed, but it will no longer be dependent on the receipt of the gambling tax. It just doesn't make sense to describe the areas of the law in terms of the image still in the law that doesn't regulate it in substance anymore. The state budget still retains these areas: they are now enshrined in the State Budget Act 2022 and in the same way in the future. I asked why the law cancels a line that currently lists areas. The Minister replied that, because it is currently included in the Gambling Tax Act, but since this money will not be related only to the payment of gambling tax, it will not be possible to regulate it in this way in the Tax Act. No one is going to exclude any area from this funding. Their funding will continue as it is today, at the level of 2021. Rene Kokk asked if the ministers of the sector had all agreed to the changes and supported them. It is very clear from the perspective of the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance that the less money there is with the label, the easier it is to share. In the previous government, there was, for example, a debate that maybe environmental charges should also be removed, so that the Environmental Investment Centre does not automatically receive a certain amount of environmental charges for its environmental programme. From a ministry's perspective, it is very important that there is confidence in what means can be taken into account. The Minister replied that the same thing had actually been done with KIK a long time ago: the level of a certain year was fixed and this receipt was untied. And just as in the previous government, we can now put forward drafts with the unanimous support of all ministers. I noted that now the line will be freed up and the ministers may use this gambling tax money the way it comes to their minds. The politician gets more Minister's portfolio and decides for himself. It doesn't matter now whether the money goes to the Olympic Committee or elsewhere. Many organisations have sent us letters asking us not to make such a change. The desire to retain areas is to take away fear from pensioners and people with special needs. They fear that all the resources they have received so far will go somewhere else in the future. Jürgen Ligi commented that stakeholders should be informed not to worry, the area will not go away. That would be the answer. The Commission received opinions on the draft from the Estonian Olympic Committee, the Association of Associations of Estonian Pensioners and the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities and NGO associations. The Commission proposed to conclude the second reading. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U246	And now we can ask questions. First Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U247	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The rapporteur from the Commission. As you pointed out in your report, the Minister of Finance has promised us at first reading that these amounts will be fixed, these amounts will not go away. I understand that you had some discussion on this subject, but I did not really understand how the Minister of Finance would ensure that funding for these areas, which were financed so far from the amount of gambling tax, was fixed. And where is it fixed? Where is the certainty that these amounts will not simply disappear in a 13-billion budget, will not be diverted, even in important areas? How did the Minister explain this system to inspire this fortress? And why did he withdraw from his promises at first reading?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U248	He didn't explain why he was retreating. But he explained that these areas remain in the state budget, [they are] already in the state budget for next year The law will continue to be the same. If you look at the state budget for 2022, these areas are in there, the amount is the same as this year. If the economy grows next year, the remaining money will go to the state budget. The government will then have the opportunity to decide what will be done with this money.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U249	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U250	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I will actually continue with the question of my good colleague Eduard. How did the Minister explain at the meeting of the Commission that he could guarantee its funding? The draft explanatory memorandum already shows that in the years to come, the funding of the areas was actually decreasing. We will take the letter of this Olympic Committee, which clearly demonstrated that a very large amount of money will not be collected and this will seriously call into question the future of our top sport. Was it on the table, and what did the minister answer to our Olympic committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U251	Thank you. As I read out in my presentation, the Minister replied that the areas will be listed in the State Budget Act in the future. But the state budget is made every year, and if there are no fixed areas in the next advance of 2023, then, of course, some areas may be excluded. In next year's state budget, these areas are listed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U252	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U253	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! I will also continue with the question of my good colleagues. I think what you're saying is a bit controversial. Obviously, the areas may be included in the budget, but this is nothing to do with ensuring funding, which, as I understand, the Minister allegedly promised you in the Commission. Areas can be described, but we all know that even smarter [people] than us, nor are the best finance ministers in the world able to read our budget well and understand all the lines. There are areas that have been described on an operational basis, but MEPs clearly do not have the opportunity to monitor this in order to ensure funding. And now we are talking about the stability of funding for certain areas, not their description in the State Budget Act. Yesterday, cultural people and, as you yourself pointed out, sports people are all panicked. We know that if they're not listed, it'll disappear. Why don't you tell me more about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U254	Thank you, you have rightly understood that this bill will remove this confidence that all areas will receive as much money as they have received to this day. And it may happen that some areas will disappear at some point. I guess we all know that a few years ago the same subject was in this hall and in the government. One minister wanted to use gambling money in an area that was not included in the Gambling Tax Act, and this was the result of long tensions and disputes, and eventually this money could not be used for other purposes. The same comment I made when I asked my questions was that it could now happen that the line would be freed up and ministers could use this gambling tax money exactly as it is politically reasonable at that moment. The opposition politicians did not support this draft in the committee, but coalition politicians supported and, in this context, the three amendments proposed by the three opposition parties did not receive support in the committee. That is why I read these questions and answers, doubts and reservations in the Commission's minutes. And I am here as a representative of the Commission, not a representative of one of the parties. I will respond exactly as the discussions in the Commission took place.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U255	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U256	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You touched on the very right aspect, which is why we are talking about this matter again here and are as far away as we are in the debate on this law. He's here again in the grand hall of the Riigikogu. Indeed, this money began to be distributed to LGBT companies, which are not absolutely on the list that should receive the money from the gambling tax. But also yesterday, now I'm seconding to a good colleague, Priit Sibula, really Urmas Vaino, the cultural people were extremely concerned. They brought Latvia, for example, where they went down this road to put these funds in a potty state budget. They were left with cultural capital at the beginning, or well, they also had this kind of financing system, and it was left there as it was at first, but it disappeared smoothly over time. And with the very nice words that there is nothing, the cultural funding from the state budget will continue and, in fact, everything will get better. How is your assessment of whether our cultural capital is a very important resource for culture...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U257	Time, Moonika!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U258	... will not disappear and the cultural situation in the future will not weaken, or will you see or will there be a minister on this subject expressing himself?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U259	Thank you. In view of the fact that four opinions were received by the Commission, the Estonian Olympic Committee, the Association of Estonian Pensioners and the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities did not support this draft, the NGO Association supported it. Today, on the one hand, the draft states that if the amounts are fixed, at least this amount will be received by the ministries each year. But which field and how much is received is no longer fixed. And there may be a situation that, as the Olympic Committee says, this could also lead to a disaster on the sports side, since some minister may not be a sports fan, maybe more cultural, but it is up to him to decide what area this money is going to be. So far, these percentages were fixed. There was a risk that, if the economy is in a worse position, less money could come from gambling, more will come from better years. So on the one hand, in order to mitigate the risk, it has been attempted to fix the amounts, but on the other hand, since the areas are no longer linked to a percentage or amount, it is a risk that some areas may be part of the orphanage.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U260	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U261	Thank you. Indeed, the behaviour of our ministers is sometimes very strange. The last example of the previous Minister of Culture, who simply went around Estonia and asked people who needed money, and then sat at his desk and decided to direct everything to their own electoral area. In this sense [is better] if there is a system where some areas are fixed or some amounts fixed. Clearly, the Minister will have less chance of sharing money for his own favorite projects. However, I am not satisfied with the promises made by the Minister of Finance at first reading and which he seems to have withdrawn, but which may have affected the Riigikogu ambassadors at first reading in order to [decided] not to reject the draft. We were hoping that the Minister would correct this bill, after all, he promised us that not only amounts would be fixed, but also areas would be fixed. Did he now explain in any way why he had withdrawn from his promise? Did the Commission mention why the Minister of Finance did not comply with the promises made by the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U262	If I remember correctly, the minister of the Riigikogu's remote control promised to preserve the fields. For the money number, I don't remember him allowing it, but they were talking about a fixed amount. I'll say it by memory. But I understand that the coalition still has to be supported by everyone. And if any minister has demanded that the law be changed, it has been brought to this table, and this is how he is on this table. There was a debate in the Commission about this and there were very clearly different perceptions. The opposition politicians did not support these changes and the coalition politicians who spoke supported them. That is exactly the kind of debate in the committee, the argument was heated. But with the majority vote, the amendments were rejected.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U263	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U264	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I mean, after all, we could get a lot more money out of gambling. This is, let's say, harmful action, because people can get into the so-called ludomania [cups]. Has there not been a debate in the Commission to expand this circle? For example, some consumer games in which people participate contribute their own money. A number of parents have turned to the so-called pregnant teenage programmes to vote, or the second or the third or the fourth. Which is why the kids are gonna vote on him-he-he-he-he-he-he ten times. We have free Internet calls, but you have to pay for SMS. If you've got three kids and they're all gonna do 30 times in there one night, there's gonna be a financial hole. It's a good thing that money goes to culture, at least. Was that on the committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U265	Thank you. Family and child education were not discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U266	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U267	Thank you. With this amendment to the law, the fact that § 7 (2) (2) (2) states that regional investment subsidies, i.e. the provision of roofing money, will in principle become null and void. And the same section of the same law [paragraph 31], which states that the conditions and procedures for the application, grant, use and recovery of this [grant] will be laid down by the Minister responsible for the sector, will also become invalid. Do I understand [rightly] that your committee has now decided that no more 'roof money' can be granted, and that is why the Minister's regulation on this will be abolished? These processes are no longer being carried out. Did you get to that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U268	First of all, thank you for your question. The draft has been initiated by the government, not by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. All the proposals that were there had come from the government, they had not come from the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Committee on Monetary Affairs has not made such proposals, and according to today's knowledge, the Committee on Monetary Affairs is expecting proposals from all political groups and members of the Riigikogu in the run-up to the third reading, including proposals of 3 million euros of regional investment grants. Today, the Committee on Monetary Affairs has not abandoned these proposals and this series.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U269	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U270	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Of course, it is very strange, of course, by both the Minister and the current government coalition, that the sums will be decoupled. They are said to be fixed, but it is not quite clear that changes in the economy are being taken into account, and certainly these areas are losing, there is no doubt about that. As a result, I have the question: did the Minister not, by chance, have the idea that it could at least be written into legislation that the existing areas would be fixed to a specific amount and that these amounts would be linked to the change in the consumer price index?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U271	Thank you. The Minister did not make such a proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U272	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U273	[[Remote connection]] Good manager and good waitress! It is very precisely stated here how much of this gaming tax will have to go to one area or another. But I ask why so much exactly: the Ministry of Culture had 14.1, but not 14.2, and the Ministry of Education, what it was, 10.1, but not 9.9. How are these numbers achieved, and how do they guarantee this real need? Well, a couple of examples, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U274	Thank you. The agreements have already been concluded and confirmed by the previous law. These percentages and numbers have not been amended by this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U275	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U276	[[Remote connection]] Good waitress! You are making a presentation on behalf of the Commission, but there is no feeling that you will pass on the information that was available to the Commission. The fact that you said that these areas would lose confidence was a terrible sign or an ear. That was not the position of the Commission. On the contrary, it was said what real funding is. Please tell us what these proportions are, how much these areas of sport and culture would depend on gambling tax. Not to mention that there was a very sharp criticism, such an addiction. However, you could mention the proportions, obviously the previous questioners have not understood at all the content of this debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U277	Thank you, Jurgen! I have tried to describe the whole Commission debate in my speech. I may have accidentally left out a quote from you, but I'll fix it. According to Jürgen Ligi, this is absurd regulation. There is a long struggle over the sport budget and it is said that money is being taken away, rather it is the amount that the Minister of Culture can never be sure of, because it is still gambling, money comes or does not come. He added that he had proposed to reduce the target use, so there would be more flexibility. It's a problem that the purpose has been written in. In fact, cultural capital should receive stable money from the budget, not money from gambling and smoking, which is fluctuating up and down. Jürgen Ligi's quote ends.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U278	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U279	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. I don't really care about the fact that I've gotten the overview of what you had there before the second reading. As usual, different people have different minds. But I have a question precisely in the context of your own opinion. Why did the government and the minister come up with this at all, if the purpose of this bill is not to take money out of areas? So what's the purpose of this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U280	The Minister at first reading argued that the aim is to ensure that a fixed amount is received each year by various ministries who then subdivide it into different areas. That is why the budget for this year will be fixed. Some organisations who get money from gambling support it. Few support and a majority do not support this proposal. I guess it's always that those who get the money are happy when they get the money, and those who don't get the money aren't happy. This dispute in the Commission was between the various parties. The opposition politicians, ambassadors did not support the Minister's proposal, and coalition politicians supported this draft exactly as it has now arrived in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U281	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U282	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I still come back to the rooftop money that basically abolishes this bill, leaves it to the minister to make a discretionary decision. If the minister wants to, he's gonna pay the penthouse money, and if he doesn't, he's not gonna give it, says he's not supposed to. Of course you said, don't worry, right now all the requests are taken. But I would point out that this law will enter into force on 1 January 2022. Maybe this year this process is still ongoing on the roofing money, but next year it will only be possible to do so by the decision of the respective minister. Did you discuss this issue at this level in the Committee on Monetary Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U283	Thank you. No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U284	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U285	Thank you, good manager. I repeat the same question. Yeah, what you answered me about, but my question was, why the numbers like that? Gambling tax is, as it is, when is this lottery or how much is it coming from. For example, the Ministry of Culture receives 14.1%, but not 13.9%, and the Ministry of Education receives 10.1%, but not 9.9%. Why is that so? You, as a longtime member of the Monetary Commission, should know.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U286	Thank you, Peter! As I said, in the debate on this draft, the percentages were not changed; they have already been in place in the case of a previously adopted law. Why, at that point, such percentages were accepted and negotiated, I really do not know about the moment's agreements. I wasn't there for these discussions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U287	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U288	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Good waitress! I did not ask you to quote me, but to pass on the Commission's debate. And you missed my first question. You spoke of confidence and cannot answer Peter Ernits' question about these sums. But I'm still asking the totals how much sport and culture get and how much this provision is part of their funding. According to my memory, the committee got this information graphically on the wall.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U289	I have to admit, I really don't know if there was a graph on the wall on the committee or not. I don't remember that. The Commission discussed proposals for improvements at second reading and what was under discussion is set out in the document. But I can just read it here. Gambling tax [in the case of collection] is a tax charge that has not been constantly growing but has fluctuated quite a bit over the years. In three years, almost €30 million has been received, in 2007, 2008 and 2019. In the remaining years, fluctuations have ranged from EUR 18 to EUR 28 million. This is information about the total amount of gambling tax collected. As the current law so far provides, EUR 4.2 million of the amount of gambling tax collected in 2021 will be paid to the Ministry of Culture. This, in turn, is divided between sports and cultural objects. This is the largest amount of money ever received by the Ministry of Culture from gambling tax. 3 million euros will be received by the Ministry of Education and Research, 4.5 million euros by the Ministry of Social Affairs and 3.8 million euros for regional projects by the Ministry of Finance. The Minister specifically pointed out the sports programme, the financing part of sport, in order to dispel misconceptions, such as the majority of the funding of sport in Estonia comes from the collection of gambling tax. The next year, 2022, the Ministry of Culture has allocated 45.5 million euros to sport. The share of this sport is slightly more than EUR 35 million. There is a special interest in how the amendments relate to the Olympic Committee's funding. According to the Minister, the total amount of gambling tax will not be reduced, but will remain at the level of 2021, which is one of the highest levels in history. The money allocated to the Olympic Committee as a whole is already significantly higher than the part of the gambling tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U290	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U291	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I would like to ask you now that you may be able to either disprove or confirm, but there is one disturbing signal upstairs about this whole bill. And if the explanation here also states that the main or important aim of this draft is to exempt ministries from certain burdens, from the specificity that they can now freely channel gambling funds, then the question is that the very important basis for the development of this law was the transgressions carried out by Tanel Kiige: gambling money was distributed illegally and precisely because there was too much specificity in it. Now that specificity with this new law or amendment to the law will be taken away. Let me get this straight. The point is, no more trouble like this on the Tanel Swings?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U292	Thank you. That was not the answer we received in the Commission. Although the subject was set up, the question was similarly raised. The Minister's answer was that he did not know such a solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U293	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U294	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Well, it is true with the ministers that they sometimes answer that they do not know and do not know. My question is whether the Committee on Monetary Affairs has now clearly understood that this will increase the influence of the decisive officials, or whether we still need to put more emphasis on keeping the officials within the given framework. What was the perceived majority of this committee meeting after the Minister said that he did not see any problem in it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U295	Thank you. It was bad news for opposition politicians in the Commission that this promise, which was made in the Chamber at first reading, would not be fulfilled as such. However, as I have described, the amendments were voted and, as there are fewer opposition politicians in the Commission, they remained in the minority in the vote and these amendments were rejected by coalition politicians.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U296	Thank you. No further questions. We can open negotiations. Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U297	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, There is no way the Social Democrats can agree to this draft. We cannot agree with the government's intention to break up the existing system that existed for years, where certain types of associations in certain areas, umbrella organisations, guardianship organisations, interest protection organisations knew very strongly that they had one specific source from which they could apply for money for their own projects, their activities and receive state support. Yes, we understand that this amount fluctuated.. one year was smaller, the second year was bigger. But all sectors and all associations that operate in this way have been able to take this into account, have understood it and have agreed to it. This is also demonstrated by these support letters and petitions to the Committee on Monetary Affairs not to break up the system that works. These provisions of the Gambling Tax Act were introduced at the time precisely with the idea that well-defined areas, based on specific formulas [based on] specific percentages, are certain that they will also receive support from the state budget from the resources of the Gambling Tax. Here it has already been emphasised several times in the debate that at first reading the Minister for Finance promised us that these areas, at least these areas, will remain in the law, so that the Minister of Social Affairs, Minister of Culture, Minister of Education and Minister of Public Administration would be aware that the money received as gambling tax in the state budget can be directed precisely and exclusively to these areas. Even if in next year's state budget these things are somehow defined, even if they are in the year after that, governments come and go, politicians come and go. You can never be sure that the next minister or the next government will not forget the promises made here and what was said here. We are talking about the loss of more than EUR 11 million over the next four years of all areas involving children, young people, people with disabilities, athletes, other regional projects, cultural projects. That's a lot of money. We are talking about hundreds of projects, we are talking about thousands of people who could benefit from these projects. It seems to us that this is a small amount of money that still exists and it does not go away, but for those people who benefit from gambling tax instruments, it is a very large amount of money, it is a very large amount of money. The Minister of Finance says that the amendment of this law will increase flexibility. Yeah, maybe it's more flexible, but from whose point of view? One loses confidence, one loses a certain amount from the state budget, the other, of course, creates flexibility. I'm the boss of my wallet: I want, I give, I want, I don't give. I'm channeling all the money into one area or another, other areas can wait. This is a situation we cannot afford, and we cannot deceive the hopes of organisations and people. Even the explanatory memorandum drawn up on this draft law says very specifically how many things will not be done if several associations fail to support how many good initiatives we put at risk by this draft act. And such a situation, of course, must not be allowed to arise. The Social Democrats propose that this draft be suspended at second reading. This proposal has been submitted electronically. Ladies and gentlemen, please, I call on you not to break up an existing, well-functioning system that is satisfied in the third sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U298	George Jaanson, please! Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U299	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna start with a few things. First of all, I am not representing the group here today, but I am representing myself. That's first. Now, another thing: on several occasions in this Chamber it has been said that the Minister has promised to table an amendment to this draft, but has not complied with it. That's not quite the case. The Minister actually kept his promise. He tabled this amendment, this amendment came to us to discuss the group, the group did not agree with it, and that is why it did not pass on to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. So I'm asking the minister not to be indicted. But now, for my part, I'm saying that this bill is now, yes, something that hastened and doesn't look, and it's not pretty at all. We are talking about a measure that has worked well in quite a long history and the results of which we can be proud. And it's losing now. The draft amends the distribution of the gambling tax so that one part of it was also support for top sports. At this point, I would like to talk about the fact that top sport loses clear funding, depending on the discretion of politicians. It's not bad in itself. After all, all areas are supported by the national budget strategy. But what they don't want to talk about is that we don't have equal areas. Areas such as this are inevitably important and less important. And we don't have any basic goods for top sport, at least in the case of state budget choices. What are the most important choices? Always security, we talk about protection, we talk about society in Estonian, we talk about education, we talk about much more. And therefore, in the case of top sport, much depends on who is specifically the advocate of the field, the Minister of Culture, how much he has the will, skill, knowledge and understanding, in particular the understanding that the continuity of support for top sport is very important. Raising a top athlete at international level, however, will still take 10 to 12 years in our society before we can truly enjoy his results. And I believe that in this hall, almost everyone will enjoy it, such as the present performances of Anett Kontavaid. I don't know, maybe some minister won't be happy because he doesn't know how to do it. The Olympic Committee has a system that supports top athletes. This sports system has been quite flexible over the years, but at least from my point of view, there are errors in it. But it's still something as far as possible. As a problem there, for example, the threshold is high and it is a very team-friendly system, not so much an individual development support system. But when it comes to the will of politicians, attention, choice-dependent [factor], it amplifies mistakes and makes it more difficult to raise athletes. What I want to say is that as a former top athlete, as a beneficiary of top sports, and also as chairman of the sports support group of the Riigikogu, I cannot in any way support this draft. I am opposed in this respect to my group and also to the initiator of the draft. Too abruptly and without negotiation, this has been a change and a break in the current system. And it is also known that the state and the Ministry of Culture believe that the top-sport budget has been encoded here for the next four years. But I really want to be wrong about that. The support of Team Estonia hasn't fit in either. But on the other hand, it is also quite understandable, because if money has not continued to increase, for example, the pay of teachers, then we will not be able to talk about top sports until then. We have a critical situation of teacher follow-up, and this is a much more important problem for the country than whether top sports can get a certain amount of money or not. But if top sport were to receive some kind of funding on a percentage basis, it would be much, much more secure. As an argument, this is a well-supported example that consistent and sustainable support for sport cannot be left to political support alone. But I want to stress once again that I still hope to be very wrong. I very much hope that in four years' time and in the future, the picture of supporting sport will be the second. Finally, I say that the draft is still related to the state budget for the coming year and will now be proactive in telling the government of its expectations, your message, my request and the call to make communication with the Estonian Olympic Committee, as an umbrella organisation for Estonian sports, in order to put in place sufficient long-term funding for top sport. It's worth it. Top sports needs certainty just so we can get the next Anett Kontavaits, the next Olympic winners we had the honour of getting again this year. There is a clear need for sustained support for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U300	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U301	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! And good people, and, of course, young people, those who have been young, and those young people who are still young at the moment! I would like to talk about youth associations. I had the honour of being the coordinator, technical support and everything else at the Estonian Youth Work Centre for quite several years during the examination of applications for annual grants for youth associations. And how was that one done there? Perhaps this is my personal opinion, but it was no longer, let's say, a youth organisation, where we still expect some minor mismanagement from young people, but the maximum points were already a full professional association, he replied to all the maximum points. However, it was rather strange that our Boy Scouts and guides had already taken a more creative approach to the matter. They knew how many points they could collect according to their own actions and how much this funding could be. The other half had already planned the Gambling Council's money. In addition, the umbrella organisations that represented, say, all young people and their rights. In this way, when it becomes the decision of officials in general, it is often stuck behind the experience of life. I don't disparage anyone at all, but if the current official is a convinced football fan and he's played football and he's got kids playing football, then he doesn't really understand maybe the Boy Scout organizations that somehow do this kind of survival training in the woods or something else. It would still make more sense to play football collectively. And so maybe he's going to put the money there instead, and then it turns out that since bigger applications were made for football, this year the youth organisations are going to have to tighten their pants a little, look at their own things, just as Minister Suttki said here in the meantime that, oh, well, then we have to rethink the business plan or whatever else. Young people are actually very alert to social nerves. And once you put a beam on young people, young people won't forget it. After all, we have created this country in order for young people to keep this Estonia. And right now, I see one possibility. Organised young people, especially in today's geopolitical situation, who are extremely valuable to us, could still know that they have a sense of security, some kind of legal provision of support [for their activities]. But, well, in a country, priorities may change when a new trend or a new flash of thought comes up. Today, for example, entrepreneurial young people with apps are repeated in a better [status] than maybe scout organisations promoting outdoor training. Then it may be that at some point they are watching, and then it turns out that they are actually accustomed to [the situation], they have not received this money for many years. Let them get used to it. I think it's still wrong. As far as athletes are concerned and culture is concerned, it is a bit ugly to hear, but culture has always flourished in its own content, just when it is more difficult, because then the social nerve is much more tense. And the athlete still has a real gamble. Of course, funding would bring better results, and without funding, he will have the pleasure of participating. I think it's some kind of Olympic idea that it's not about winning, it's about participation. I still think our athletes should win. And our cultural people would also like some confidence. Even in these corona conditions, they have not received the support they need. If we reduce one mechanism, the state will leave a message that you are not our priority at this point. Yes! Culture and sport are our priority, as are young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U302	Thank you. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U303	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I must admit that I am not the first day of the Riigikogu, but there is only one thing that can be said about this bill. If something works very well, for God's sake, don't touch it. If it no longer works, people in this area must be brought together and a better solution sought. Of course, if you look at the state budget, there have been years of decisions in this Chamber, with which most of the state budget money has already been decided in advance. What we're trying to share here is very small. And when they came to defend this bill, there was a reason that all the money couldn't be allowed to go anywhere and do everything. We have agreed very clearly many years ago how gambling money is distributed between areas. The percentages have been set, and some members of the Riigikogu asked why so today. Today, those areas that have received gambling money through four ministries have basically been satisfied with this. Of course, those non-profits who don't get the money out of there would want to get out of there. If anyone asks if there's ever enough money, there's never enough money. The more money you have, the more money you need. But today we feel [the dissatisfaction of those who are the leaders of culture and sport in Estonia, starting with the Olympic Committee. We have a multiple Olympic medal sitting here who certainly knows this area much better than we all do. All I can be proud of is that you came to Jõgevamaa as a medalist. I could shake your hand and see how big and tall you are. But now we're trying to break this area. We know that this is how strong athletes have come to us. Many didn't sleep last night, we watched tennis. Many, too, who are not tennis friends or sports friends, spent a sleepless night. Emotions are very good, and I believe that the emotions that are brought to our people in the field of sport and culture are those that prolong the healthy lives of many of us. The sad thing is that today, when one of the previous speakers said that the minister wanted to comply with [the promise], but the group did not support it. This may have gotten a little complicated in our politics that there is a constant struggle both at local government level and in the Riigikogu: opposition and coalition. And if the opposition comes with a very good idea and an idea, where there is also the support of the majority of coalition politicians, then it cannot be pushed or agreed in the group. And then these good decisions will not be made in this Chamber. At best in a few months, at worst in a few years, these very good thoughts and drafts will come from the coalition side of this hall and if they come with them as proposals from the coalition, these decisions will also be taken. Today, unfortunately, it doesn't seem so good at the moment. And since the Olympic Committee, the cultural people, the Association of Retirement Associations and the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities cannot support this draft as such, the Isamaa Group also proposes to interrupt the second reading of the Gambling Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Draft Act amending the State Budget Act 459. I will hand it over to the Board of the Riigikogu. Here you go! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U304	Thank you. I see we've had some procedural issues. First, Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U305	Thank you, good vice chairman. I just got out of the office right now, tried to enjoy the charms and pains of teleworking, and during Aivar Koka's speech, time was just a hangover or whatever. Next door to the neighbor, it's the same thing. But what are they doing, and how can those ambassadors who are even further away decide? Or is it, I've also seen this anomaly that it's more like a spark than in this house, even though I'm on line three? How can we ensure that all ambassadors can work equally?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U306	Yeah, I suppose Peter Ernitsa has the same problem. Please, Peter! Peter, you're on with the procedure. But it doesn't. Peter can't see us. Got it! Just give me a minute. I'll take a three-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U307	Ladies and gentlemen, we have a tech crash and some people can't see and can't hear. Let's make sure that I ask all the people who see and hear us to check our presence and then see if it works. Incoming check, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U308	And now I'm waiting to see if we've had any feedback that a lot of people can't get in touch. [[It's a long break.]] We have an envoy who can't get in touch. I have a request that anyone who does not get in touch do their computer or at least restore their computer browser. And then let's see if we can get our procedures over with. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U309	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. I don't know where Aivar Chef hung or disappeared. Should he continue his performance?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U310	He hung up in the hall. We're not forcing Aivari to speak again. But Aivar Chef, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U311	I have a procedural question in this sense that yesterday, for example, when my home internet showed the maximum, [was so] that from the moment of [starting] the agenda you come in, but the video says you'll get a picture and a voice in a second. Two points goes through, you have nothing to do, just waiting for it to go in. You can make [or] three restaurants. How should a member of the Riigikogu behave? Is it like now that when you're in this house, you run into the hall and you call out loud? The other day, when Jüri was in charge, I actually wrote Jüri a message and he quickly solved the connection. Yesterday I had exactly the same concern in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I just got half a point [not in touch]. Luckily, René saved the Fatherland's amendments in the vote. Perhaps the members of the Riigikogu should be e-mailed again after the contacts to whom they should call when the hangover occurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U312	I think we did. At least I saw myself that this teleworking guide had been sent. Let us repeat, then, that we have agreed that if the voting system does not work, there is one person from each group in this Chamber who will be signalled by his groupmate. And we will not announce a vote if he has not been able to vote. Of course, the ambassadors should also give a signal as a matter of urgency, through the representative of their group, if they are not at all able to participate in teleworking. I can also call out the contact phone, it's 6316346, or virgats@riigikogu.ee. Then it'll be right here. All right, let's continue with the procedure. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U313	A lot of colleagues want to make a restaurate on the computer so they can ask for seven minutes of break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U314	Seven minutes break. Got it. [[In the diner.]] All right, let's do the procedure, maybe take five minutes instead of seven. But if the group wants a break to get their computers up and running, of course we will. But let's do the procedure. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U315	Thank you. I do, if there's such a terrible threat that has arisen now...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U316	Well, it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U317	In my opinion, the President of the sitting is now able to give the wheel of history the right direction. I have a proposal to the President of the sitting to take a 30-minute break, to bring together the members of the Bureau and to make a decision that the format of the remote sitting, if there is such a porridge, people hang, some people are on the air and are not on the air, the parliamentary state cannot function. I have a proposal to take a 30-minute break, board members together, make a decision that the remote session will be interrupted, we will continue to work in a normal format. It is not possible to make a porridge like this so that for seven minutes no one tries or tries and so on. Come on, the state can't be a failed experimentation environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U318	I agree with you, but we spent two hours last week arguing whether we were doing teleworking or not doing teleworking, and then we voted. I have, let's just say, by an adequate estimate, I think we're going to make exactly the same decision today when we're now discussing two hours or taking half-hour breaks. We've got to do this long-distance work, like we did in the spring, take breaks, make restaurants and call. That's the life we have. Thanks for the offer, but I appreciate the opportunity to go through with it. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U319	Thank you, good vice chairman. A good coworker, Urmas, referred to the very same thing, but just last week's Tuesday, we had a serious argument about this 'in particular'. The Reform Party, as requested, and there were no other compelling reasons. But if the counterbalance now is that the work of the ambassadors is obstructed, then maybe the obstruction of the work of a member of the Riigikogu is a little more valuable than that of the "particular" member. Can't we talk again? I think that if the state budget is not processed now, we already know about the constitution, what it means if the state budget is not adopted. That means new elections, extraordinary ones. I think even the Reform Party would be willing to come to this hall for that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U320	Thank you. Well, what can I say other than what I said to Urmas Reinsalu? We had this debate last week in this Chamber very passionately and very thoroughly. I can't imagine we're going to have a different outcome right now. And I'd rather focus on getting my electronic system running after that decision. Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U321	Thank you. That's exactly what I'd like to talk about getting the electronic system running. I hear we have an e-state. But the tools we're working on in this hall have passed the millennium. And when I asked why this software was so out of date, they said there were three different packages behind it and so on. We in the Riigikogu have this information or, I don't know, a work system compared to Belarus's time and age. I want to ask you a procedural question. Does the National Heritage Board prohibit us from replacing these systems, or is there any other reason not to start? We are proud of our e-governance, but soon there will be no reason to brag. I think what is going on here in the Riigikogu is very important. And I would like to find a solution to this [problem].
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U322	Mr. Lotman, don't give them any ideas! It's the heritage protection that suddenly puts it under the heritage protection. E-governance, yes, we have all heard, and now we see him in his full glory. Well, we also saw these failures in the spring, and these were also arguments in our debate last week that this teleworking does not always go smoothly. Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U323	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. I did not know which hand to raise, but I say that Parliament's Information Technology Department is certainly good at solving these [problems]. I have not seen any of the problems that we see at the remote sessions of the Tartu City Council. That's one thing. The second thing is that the Reform Party certainly did not want any spite of this remote hearing. I'm not talking on behalf of the Reform Party, I haven't coordinated it, I'm talking on behalf of the doctors. I see that all of you have been largely indifferent to others. Nobody wears a mask. We know how infection is now, we know how wearing masks goes. And in this situation, most of the halls don't wear masks, and others just have to come in there and suffer the fact that others don't want to protect each other. This is unethical by the entire Riigikogu. And yet you demand masks elsewhere, outside. Read a little about what's really going on in the whole world and how these things protect you! I wouldn't come to the hall if most of you weren't wearing a mask either. I don't agree, because I know what these risks are, I know these infections. I've received all the vaccinations. Let's think about it! Let's not make this a political game, I beg you! You know that doesn't mean that you've been treated or had, you can have it again. And if you can't, you can infect others. Be human and think calmly! We've gotten a little lighter, but we don't know how we're going to proceed. Please don't play political games! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U324	I ask that we do not debate this procedural debate about the usefulness, harmfulness, necessity of masks. That certainly will not help us find IT solutions today. But, of course, it is always possible not to go to work if you do not want to work. I know a representative of the Riigikogu who had himself elected and never showed up for the hearing, only took out the salary. Indrek Island has a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U325	Thank you! Since colleagues have taken the trouble of sharpening the teeth on the digital capacity of the Riigikogu, I must say, to some extent, to balance, that by participating in these various hybrid sessions, someone could produce statistics. I think the Riigikogu Information Service might be happy to do so. I have a request to the members of the Riigikogu, who here sharpen their teeth on our digital capabilities, that it might be a good idea to show numerically how in many cases the quality of our sitting has been disturbed by the digital opportunities offered to Riigikogu members by the Riigikogu [Kantselei], and how in many cases this work has been disrupted because the members of the Riigikogu have lacked their own digital skills or because they have not even been able to provide themselves with sufficient internet speeds in the centre of relatively large cities, which is a particularly strange fact. With the incomes of members of the Riigikogu, you could still afford it today. I would like to expect the board to ask our IT service to make an overview of what can be done to improve the digital skills and understanding of the members of the Riigikogu, that from time to time you must also spend some money to get a proper internet connection home. How could these things be better organised in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U326	Yeah, well, we could try to make a summary like that. I am not sure that this can be quantified in any way when the digital skills of the members of the Riigikogu have fallen into the way of time. Light Everas had a procedure before. Does he have a speech left up for nothing, or does he want to speak up for more? I thought he said before that he just pressed both buttons. Then I'll take the Light Everau out of line. And now Peter Ernitsa has a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U327	Yes, according to my colleague Saare, has it been discussed that it is possible not only to assess the digital capacity of the Collegiants but also to get an overview of their mental capacity?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U328	It wasn't really a procedure. So, the Central Party Group asked for a slightly longer break. Let's take the seven minutes they put in, take a break, and then we come back, recheck the presence if it works. But first it is, I'll see, Urmas Reinsalu developed a procedure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U329	I'll do it later.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U330	Got it. Seven minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U331	Ladies and gentlemen, let us do another test on whether we have a system working. That's why we're conducting a presence check. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U332	Okay. Looks like the people who said before that they couldn't get in touch, we've logged in. Let's continue the negotiations. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U333	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We have an interesting draft today: the Gambling Tax Act and the Amending Law of the State Budget Act. Before I go to the substance of this law, I want to give you a very interesting example of life. Suppose there is a contract between an employee and an employer, a contract of employment. Everything happens as stipulated in the treaty. That's the paycheck, that's it. One day, the employer will say, you know, I'm going to cancel this contract, and from now on, I'm going to pay you exactly what I think I'm gonna pay you. Right now, we have exactly the same absurd situation. The Gambling Tax Act was adopted in 2009. It's a long history. And he has worked in every way, he has secured funds for the Cultural Endowment of Estonia, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Culture, who have been able to plan certain funds in their activities. It has been a sustainable, efficient and functioning system. Right now we're in a situation where all this so-called floating boat is drilled full of holes and shot to the bottom. Because all these points in § 7 will be removed from the law. Who's gonna decide? Just a minister. The Minister will be given the freedom to decide who he gives the money to and how much. And it may not be going to the Ministry of Culture, for example. At one point, the minister decides that we may have to give this gay and lesbian connection to finance. "Very good!" says Mr Odines. "Very good! " But if we say that this money should go, for example, say, to finance another organisation, such as Varro Vooglaiu, then Mr Odines says no, it is not good. In essence, it is a ministerial matter. Basically, that's just unacceptable. The second question is that we are currently putting good members of the Riigikogu at risk, including the Centre Party, who is actively using the regional investment support programme in its constituency to implement projects for which the state budget and local government funds are not available. It's over now. And you support it all. Very, very, very interesting! You're one of those cow's udder suckers, just like EKRE, just like the Fatherland. I believe that the socialists, too, do not mind that they can support smaller projects in their region. The point is that this amendment to the law abolishes the definition of the conditions and procedures for applying for, granting, using and recovering the regional investment aid programme, as laid down by the Minister. It's going to be nonexistent. Yes, I agree with Aivar Koka's argument that this application for investment goes through the state budget, but the state budget does not include the point of how this distribution takes place. Basically, we are still in a situation where another statement by President Kaljulaid is going to go to the dots: the Riigikogu will be transformed into a rubber stamp and any decision-making decision will be taken and handed over to the Government of the Republic. I don't understand how you can accept such things! We are the national legislators, we decide what to do. I really liked Mr. Jaanson's speech. He said there was a need to support sport. Of course, there is a need to invest in it. But in the current situation, this bill must definitely be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U334	Thank you. Rep, Mr. Odines, right? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U335	Since my name was mentioned twice in the speech of the previous speaker, I take this opportunity to speak about it. Certainly would not like to hear any confrontation between social groups here in the Riigikogu, especially as regards their support from the state budget. I am sure that different social organisations, unless they are against the Estonian state, should have the right to compete with state budget support in accordance with the rules that we adopt here as members of the Riigikogu. And it is very sad that in a number of speeches, in a question and now in the last speech, it has been reproached that LGBT organisations have been supported. I see no problems in this and it is very good that the Ministry of Social Affairs has done so and has found opportunities to support these organisations.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U336	Jürgen Ligi, please! Jürgen, we need to turn on the microphone. Jürgen, we can't hear you. Still can't hear you. We still can't hear. I have a suggestion that we interrupt Jürgen Ligi's speech for a moment, let's try again. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U337	Can you hear me now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U338	I can hear you now. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U339	Any word? Hello, I didn't hear you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U340	Now it's like we're hearing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U341	Got it. I'll tell you. As the previous speaker spoke about opposing different social groups, I will bring one parallel to the confrontation of different areas which are now being presented in this Chamber all the time by opponents of this draft. As a rule, they lift sport, sometimes also culture out of other areas, and talk about how this law is a guarantee that these areas will survive in sport and culture. Practical clarification: both of these areas receive less than a tenth of their budget through this instrument. And it is rather embarrassing when members of the Riigikogu, politicians, talk about political nonsense as something that can take money away from these areas. If we write into the law some stupid funding scheme, we'll chop it down there, it's like it's not a political matter. No one's explained where it came from. But if this flexibility in the budget is increased, then it is politically irrelevant. No, this is about increasing the flexibility of funding. It provides an opportunity to treat and analyse areas equally, including money within the budget for sport and culture, more adequately, not necessarily linked to just one tax that it has never been associated with. Once again, this amount is less than a tenth. This did not sound, but unfortunately we are talking now about sums that are at the 2007 level. Less than 10% and a decade and a half ago! And you're whispering about politically freaking out about going on culture and sports. No, we all have it. Take a look at the budget lines: there are policemen, saviors, whom you always praise, there is an education, none of whom have such guarantees. And you're saying that watch out for athletes, that these people should have it. However, the Commission rapporteur did not mention that the NGO had expressed its support for this draft, with some additions. He thinks the same system should be done on a brow. I do not want to poke on this issue, but everyone who talks about it as if it were some sort of unexpected draft has simply come into politics on its own very unexpectedly. This has been a problematic direction or funding scheme in the nineties be it that organisations or hoops or sport in general do not receive a fixed amount for sharing such projects, but it depends on the vices. It is not moral; it is not financially sustainable; it is not reasonable either. In this sense, slow down and understand that the previous government has also made such changes and we have supported them. Now you're hot against it and you're playing expert. Here, too, the next speaker, he was on these changes, and we were not opposed to it in opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U342	Thank you. Aivar Chef, the line?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U343	Yeah, just a line because Jürgen said I didn't mention in the report that the NGO supported it. I say, for the sake of protocol, that I mentioned it, and it should be written nicely in the protocol.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U344	Got it. I don't see any more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. We can go to the examination of the amendments. It is the case that the first amendment is tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U345	On behalf of the Isamaa Group, I would like to ask you to vote on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U346	Let's get to the vote. First, let's invite the people to the hall. I see Hanno Pevkur has a procedure, but before I solve it, I have... We acted swiftly, in fact a member of the Bureau of the Group must ask for a vote, and Aivar is not. I will ask Mr Seeder if the group wants to vote on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U347	Yeah, thanks! On behalf of the Isamaa Group, I ask for this very good amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U348	Got it. And now Hanno Pevkur has a procedure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U349	Yeah, Hanno Pevkur's procedure. He wanted to point out that Aivar Chef slightly exceeded his powers. He has not been given these powers so that he can ask for a vote on behalf of his group.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U350	Got it. Yeah, we noticed, too, when we had already set the bell to ring. That's the last time I'm gonna ring a bell. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U351	So that there is no doubt, on behalf of the Socialist Group, I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment. That is a really good amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U352	I am calling on you, and we are going to the vote. I'll read it again. Amendment 1, tabled by the Isamaa Group, has not been taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U353	The proposal is supported by 37 delegates, 49 against, with zero abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 2: I'm sorry! [[Hammer strike.]] Now the vote is secure. Amendment 2, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, and the Steering Committee has rejected this. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U354	Thank you. I would also like to ask for this amendment to be voted on. I assure you that this is at least as good a proposal as the one already voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U355	Yeah. Do you need a call, or can we go to the vote now? All right, let's get to the vote now. I shall put to the vote Amendment 2, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has not been supported by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote. I interrupt the vote. I interrupt the vote, we have a technical problem. [[Summing in the hall and a longer break.]] Don't say anything. We're having fun. We got a job! Let's go again. Amendment 2, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, position of the commission: not to be taken into account. Please ask the ambassadors to take a stand and vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U356	The proposal was supported by 28 delegates, with 51 opposed. The proposal was not supported. The third amendment, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, has not been taken into account by the Steering Committee. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U357	Thank you. On behalf of the EKRE Group, I would like to ask for this [proposal] to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U358	Yeah, we can vote without a call. I shall put to the vote Amendment 3, tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, and the Steering Committee has rejected it. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U359	There are 37 delegates in favour of the proposal, 51 against. This proposal, too, was not supported. With this, we have examined the amendments and the lead committee has proposed to conclude the second reading of draft 459. However, from the Isamaa Group and the Social Democratic Party Group, the proposal to interrupt the draft 459 [procedure] at second reading has come. That is what we must vote on. Am I gonna do a hall call? No, I don't. Then the proposal of the Isamaa Group and the Social Democratic Party Group to suspend the 459 SE at second reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U360	37 delegates supported the proposal to interrupt, 47 against. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U361	We can move on to the tenth item on the agenda. This is the second reading of the draft Act amending the VAT Act, the Eesti Pank Act and the VAT Act and the Customs Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Erki Savisaar, Chairman of the Monetary Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U362	Thank you, Mr President. Good Riigikogu! The Committee on Finance discussed the preparation of 460 second readings on 8 November. No amendments were received from the Riigikogu by the deadline for amendments. The Monetary Commission also asked for an opinion from the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Estonian Logistics and Freight Forwarding Association, Eesti Pank, the Estonian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and Tavid AS. We received feedback from Eesti Pank and the opinion came from the Ministry of Finance. On the basis of these opinions, it was decided to make three changes to the draft. With the first amendment, we will draw the wording closer to the wording of the directive on a recommendation from the European Commission. In the second amendment, we take into account Eesti Pank's proposal and abolish the bank's VAT exemption for the application of VAT on collector coins. And the third amendment corrects the errors that have arisen in the course of the procedure, which have already entered into the law under previous draft laws, but have not yet entered into force. All these proposals were unanimously supported by the Commission. At the end of this debate, there was also a consensus that the second reading of this draft could be concluded today and that, when the second reading is closed, the draft would be placed on the plenary agenda and the final vote would be held on 24 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U363	Thank you. There's some questions for the waitress. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U364	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! While you spoke about the target groups that should be involved, did you include Estonian numismatics in the case of these collector coins, and what is their position?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U365	Thank you. I didn't. And they didn't send us a letter of their own initiative.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U366	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U367	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good colleague! Here's my question. In the committee where you have discussed these VAT issues quite a bit, do you not have the question of why we in Estonia today have the fact that excise duty is, in turn, subject to VAT?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U368	Thank you. No, we did not discuss this issue within the framework of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U369	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U370	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I am very interested in the differentiation of investment coins under this directive and in the case of silver, VAT must be added, no gold. Does the Commission know what the reason is? Yeah, let's start with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U371	Thank you. VAT runs out on collector coins, or coins, which are not used as cash in everyday settlements. This requirement stems from the European Union Directive and for some mysterious reasons Estonia has not transposed it. Although we have written the directive into law, this point has somehow been overlooked. And it actually already applies in Europe, I think it was 15 years.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U372	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U373	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good Chairman! By the sound of it, I didn't see the picture. Good waitress! How are we doing with this? Should all possible stakeholders study our Riigikogu agenda, which takes place on different committees? It seems to me that it is quite archaic, but it is sustainable if we invite the target groups ourselves and say that it concerns them. For numsmaticians, they are already paying for these coins a pretty good tickle and yet paying VAT on it seems unfair to me as an amateur mathematician. How should this engagement process be so that all parties are still around the table and can express their opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U374	Thank you. First of all, this application of VAT to collector coins is not due to the desire of the government or coalition, but is a European Union directive, the wording of which we will specify. A report came from Europe that we have not correctly implemented this directive in the law. As far as inclusion is concerned, it is good practice that all the interest groups, of course, are also watching what is happening in the Riigikogu themselves. And if they have an important draft in the proceedings, they will also send letters of their own motion to the members of the Riigikogu as well as to the committee dealing with it. Secondly, in the course of the Commission's discussions, there is some kind of list of umbrella organisations to which the members of the Commission think it would be reasonable to send information or a further request as to what you think. But in addition to the involvement of the Riigikogu, of course, there has also been involvement in the drafting of this bill in the Government of the Republic, during which all interest groups have been discussed in the same way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U375	Good waitress, thank you. No further questions. Thank you. The question is whether negotiations are to be opened. It's what you want. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Tarmo Kruusimäe!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U376	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good Chairman! Yeah, all ladies and gentlemen, I'll try these teleworking charms and pains. It's strange for me to be involved. Remember, maybe the first time we brought alcohol duty up really high here. Then we only talked about those who produce alcohol and who are wholesale companies. But those who drink maybe two to four beers every day at the end of the evening, we didn't ask them for anything or for those who take cold medicine to be healthier. I don't know, maybe it'll help, maybe it won't. It doesn't work for me anymore, that's why I've given it up. But the lumanes for gambling, the numismaticians for today's draft, I think it would be good at least if there were some important [themes]. We know that when we talk about collector coins, souvenirs aren't made just to hang them on each other's necks. Well, they do sometimes, we call them Orders, but somebody thinks, "Hey, somebody collects some money." And then he Googles out that they're numismatics, and then he makes sure we have the numismatics nicely. To get in touch with them. I don't want to waste your time here for a long time, but my message is that they could always be involved in really, really. Not that we're just saying that we've talked to all the interest groups. After all, this has a direct impact on their daily lives. It would still be good practice and statesmanly for us to pick up and inform. Of course, they're gonna read it later. They're gonna put it out of business. Can we say that the country is better kept, protected and combed? I think we'll always include as much as we can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U377	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Let us begin the examination of the amendments. Three amendments have been received for the 460 draft. All three have been received from the commission and have been decided to take full account of them. Amendment 1, No 2, No 3. Thank you, we have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is to conclude the second reading of draft 460. The second reading is closed and the tenth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U378	We will move on to item 11, which is the second reading of Bill 461 of the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic and amending other laws. I ask Erki Savisaare, Chairman of the Finance Committee, for a presentation of the Riigikogu Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U379	Thank you, Mr President. Good Riigikogu! The Committee on Finance discussed the preparation of the 461 second reading on 8 November. An amendment to the draft came from the Riigikogu and was tabled by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party. The substance was to change the date: if this reduction in VAT as a crisis support measure is intended for an additional year, until 30 April 2023, and then the smooth increase will start over four years, then the proposal was to abolish it and maintain these lower rates forever. This amendment was not supported by the Commission. However, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, the Commission did make one error correction in the draft, which concerned precisely this rise schedule. This is in Amendment 2. Also, on a proposal from the Ministry, the Commission consensually supplemented the draft with a provision establishing the basis for the participation of local authorities in the organisation of the use of emission quota revenues. This is Amendment 3. This concerns the possibility for local authorities to help households in difficulty to pay increased energy bills through over-charged CO2 funds. The Commission also discussed the letter or proposal received by Nicorex Baltic to reduce the excise duty on e-cigarette liquids following the temporary exemption until the end of next year. We found that this was not related to the purpose of the bill. And the government is planning to come up with a more substantive draft on nicotine taxation or taxation of cigarettes in general. On the procedural side, the consensus was to conclude the second reading of this draft. And when the second reading is closed, it is proposed that the draft be put on the plenary agenda for the final vote on 24 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U380	Thank you. You have questions too. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U381	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! In this Question Time today, Minister Sut received a question and also a proposal, based on the fact that we have had this crisis here for a year and a half. This has had a severe impact on catering establishments, but also on accommodation facilities. Looking at the Conjuncture Institute 2018 [issued material], the Estonian catering establishments 20 are quite high. Others on a daily basis, almost most of them have it times as low as possible. Is it not reasonable, in the Commission's view, that I understand that this was not the case, even in the opinion of the committee chairman, as a temporary measure to lower it to 10 or, I do not know, nine? It's just that those left could still provide us with a stomach fill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U382	I was lost to the question of what a honourable member of the Riigikogu would like to make more precise. I think we were talking about VAT in some sector. Indeed, we did not discuss it within the framework of this draft, but all members of the Riigikogu have the right to submit draft laws where this idea is written in a nice way, and then the Riigikogu can discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U383	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U384	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. I'm going to repeat myself a little bit now, because at least in the future this idea would benefit people if he can't do it now. In itself, this bill is good and necessary to make even a little more expensive life cheaper. It is understandable and understandable. However, the question is that one possibility would then also be to eliminate the strange situation whereby excise duty is, in turn, subject to VAT. Wouldn't you raise such a question, or wouldn't you intend to discuss such a matter in committee in order to stop taxing excise duty on value added tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U385	Thank you. I believe that if a honourable member of the Riigikogu draws up a corresponding draft, the Riigikogu Finance Committee will definitely discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U386	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? Please, right now it's a call waiting period. You don't want to open negotiations. Then I'm asking for your help. We will examine the amendments received on draft 461. The first amendment from the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, the position of the commission, is not taken into account. Please, Rene Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U387	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Please put this proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U388	Please! Let's start preparing the vote. It seems to me that it is time to go to the vote, so I put the first amendment to the vote. This has been presented by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, the lead committee: to be disregarded. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U389	Twenty-two, to 55. The proposal was not supported. The second amendment, from the lead committee, the third amendment, from the lead committee. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is to conclude the second reading of draft 461. The second reading is closed and the 11th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U390	We will move on to agenda item 12, which is the second reading of Bill 436 on Amending the State Budget Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask Erki Savisaare, Chairman of the Finance Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U391	Thank you, Mr President. Good Riigikogu! The Committee on Finance discussed the preparation of 436 second readings, including on 9 November. Two amendments were received by the Group of the Social Democratic Party by the deadline for tabling amendments. Explanations of the amendments can be found in the list of amendments. These proposals were not taken into account in the Committee on Finance. During the discussion, the Ministry of Finance simply confirmed that all these issues are understandable and that they are in the process of drafting a plan for the development of the State Budget Act, which should be completed in the first half of next year. These proposals will certainly be addressed and sought to find a set of rules where these different ideas would form such a comprehensive solution, rather than simply being disproportionately out of context. The Committee on Finance has drawn up one amendment on its own, which postpones the date of entry into force. This is purely because the 1st of December in the original text will come before the law actually enters into force. And the Commission also discussed the question of whether the future state budget should really be drawn up to the nearest EUR 1000, not to the nearest EUR 1, so that [the figures not only in the document] presented are not rounded, but it is also, in substance, rounded. However, it was again realised that this issue needed a longer debate and that there was no amendment to this draft. And the Commission unanimously decided that the second reading of this draft could be concluded today. And when it is completed, the third reading of the draft and the final vote could be held on 24 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U392	Thank you, good waitress. Looks like there's a question for you. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U393	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I am asking about the practical implementation of this activity-based budget in the field of your future agency, the Ministry of the Environment. Have you met the budgets? The Ministry of the Environment has a climate change mitigation programme in its budget. This is very important, and the effectiveness of the use of the funds allocated to this programme will be assessed. The first indicator, the meter, is the continuation of the emissions system. Yes or no: will Estonia continue? If it continues, it will be fulfilled. And the second measure is the number of information days seminars organised. Last year was one seminar, this year two seminars, next year there are two seminars. Are the indicators, the metrics used to assess the effectiveness of the allocation or use of funds for these programmes still effective? Is this two seminars, which evaluate the effectiveness of the use of the money allocated for the green turn, not too much ambition?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U394	[[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U395	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? Please! You don't want to open negotiations. I ask for your assistance in examining the draft 436 amendments. The first amendment, the position of the Social Democratic Party Group, the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Please, I give the floor to Indrek Island.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U396	Hello! I ask for this Socialist amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U397	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 1, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U398	5 votes to 55 with 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 2, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, position of the commission: not to be taken into account. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U399	I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U400	Thank you. Peter Ernits, please! [[Silence.]] I don't think Peter wants to talk right now. Okay. Then let's start preparing the vote. Can we go to the vote? Thank you. I am voting on Amendment 2, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U401	By 6, with 55 votes against and 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 3 is tabled by the lead committee. We have examined the amendments and the position of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 436. The second reading is closed and the 12th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U402	Let's go to item 13. Second reading of the draft State Budget Act 2022 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask Erki Savisaare, Chairman of the Finance Committee, for a presentation of the Riigikogu Chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U403	Thank you, Mr President. Good Riigikogu! The Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed the preparation of 464 second readings on 9 November this year, and the Governor of Eesti Pank gave an overview of the state of the economy and monetary policy at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 16 November. In total, 45 amendments were received from members of the Riigikogu and political groups. The Committee on Finance drafted an amendment consisting of several parts, specifying the areas of government within and between ministries. Explanations of the amendments can be found in the list of amendments. The Commission supported the proposal of the Estonian Central Party Group and the Estonian Reform Party Group, which allocated EUR 2 million to support the remuneration of crews. The amendments received from the rest of the Riigikogu's political groups and members were disregarded in the committee. The Commission unanimously took the following decisions: the second reading of this draft could be completed today and the deadline for submitting amendments would be 22 November at 14 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U404	Thank you, good waitress. Looks like the questions... There is one, though. Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U405	Thank you. Throughout the previous year, it was said, for at least one year, that this budget as a document is not transparent at all. We also heard this criticism from the Reform Party. The question is whether, ultimately, the current document is much more transparent, whether all the ambassadors actually understand it, and what you have done to ensure that this criticism, which has also come from the National Audit Office, is resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U406	Thank you. First of all, it is the draft that has been before this procedure that deals with the detail and transparency of the budget and contains the first steps towards improving or improving transparency, which has already been taken into account in the budget for next year. The Finance Committee did not interview members of the Riigikogu to find out how many members of the Riigikogu understand the budget and how many do not. However, during discussions in the Commission, we generally agreed with the view of the National Audit Office that the comprehension and transparency of this budget could be significantly improved. In order to achieve this, the Government of the Republic has also started [the work] with a development plan which, hopefully, will turn into a bill in the first half of next year that could address this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U407	Now we go online from here in Tallinn, it seems, towards south-eastern Estonia. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U408	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, congratulations to the future Minister for the Environment. My question does not particularly concern the area of the environment, but it concerns the area of internal security. We remember the months ago when the rescuers were in front of the Riigikogu and they were justified by the concern that the level of wages that we have in our internal security and many other areas will not suffer any criticism, and the goal we have to reach once will be very, very far away with the current wage increases. Members of the Social Democratic Party Group tabled an amendment which was not supported by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, including an increase in the salaries of internal security staff. Did you discuss this and, Erki, do you think this poor salary today will not result in the fact that one day we will no longer have these good employees?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U409	I have to make a little bit of a clarification as chairman, also for the sake of the verbatim: in the speech chair of the Riigikogu, I looked it up, the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs is, however, not the chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U410	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! I would have liked to have clarified that myself. But I will now come to the other side of this question. Wages will rise next year in the area of internal security. Of course, it would have been the desire of the Minister for the Interior to raise them much more, and the desire of those working in the field of internal security is undoubtedly even greater. However, budgetary opportunities are limited and the source of additional wage increases offered by the Social Democratic Party did not seem appropriate. However, I am convinced that the Minister for the Interior will continue to deal very strongly with the issue of pay and that a wage increase will once again be foreseen in the 2023 budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U411	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U412	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr President of the Commission. Didn't the government see, feel, hear any initiatives in the face of a sudden hybrid war and migration threat, to channel more money and get supplies to strengthen the control line? Now, as we know, the riot police are only able to supply a few dozen sets to combat if they break out on our borders. Were there no such signals from the government that maybe there is a need for last-minute readjustments in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U413	Thank you. The issue of hybrid war fights was not discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U414	Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U415	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The rich municipality, the city of Tallinn, has even turned to the Social Affairs Committee with concern. This concern was put forward in the form of amendments by myself and two other colleagues. This is about the rise in the limit of living. At the moment when it is still being discussed and coordinated, what should be the measure of supporting people in difficulty when paying electricity bills, the Estonian Association of Cities and Municipalities has highlighted 30 points, addressed [and said] that it cannot be done and implemented in this way, and raising the subsistence limit would be the solution to this situation. What were these arguments? Since 2019, this border has stood. This would be much better in terms of administrative capacity, less burdensome for municipalities and much more helpful for people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U416	Thank you. The Committee on Finance did not discuss what would be a reasonable threshold for social assistance. We looked, in particular, at the suitability of the sources of cover for the amendments. The sources of cover included in the amendments were not suitable. Therefore, the proposals were not taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U417	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U418	[[Remote connection]] Thanks! Good Erki, you'd be the chairman of any committee. Sorry, I was really wrong: Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. But I'm asking you something that may be a very small detail, and it's not popular either. This concerns our Riigikogu house, our employees, who help us every day. We know that among the constitutional institutions, the Riigikogu is the last in terms of wage levels, and it will be a piece of empty land before the next one comes. Erki, how seriously did you discuss this proposal that we should act as a serious legislator and put money in the good of our house, not in our well-being, but in the wages and premises of our employees? This [need] screams like every corner.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U419	Thank you, good Squid! This issue was indeed discussed in the Commission and on several sides. Firstly, the question was that perhaps the budgetary procedure of the constitutional institutions should be quite the opposite and start with the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which would take the budgetary decisions that the government could take into account when drawing up the budget in the autumn. On the other hand, the discussion was about finding additional resources to raise wages. No suitable source of cover was found at the moment, but both the Ministry and the officials of the Committee on Monetary Affairs are trying to find it. Perhaps, at third reading, there is some way to resolve or mitigate this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U420	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U421	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Commissioner Erki! Electricity, internet and roads are integral parts of the state budget procedure every time. My question is about the Internet and the data link. You're also the chair of the broadband support group here in Parliament. After all, for a long time, we have spent precisely this topic, which haunts people, businesses and institutions across Estonia, that there is still no fast Internet. The subject is often reached in the discussions so that we will solve it sometime in the future, because our e-state needs to be developed quickly and more secure at the moment. Was the same topic of high-speed data communication in the debate and how will it be resolved by the state budget next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U422	Thank you. The IT Minister, the Minister for Enterprise and Information Technology, also introduced investment in data communication by introducing the budget for his area of government. These are planned from the following structural funds: I will now say by heart that the magnitude was 65 million, which is undoubtedly not enough to build the last mile across Estonia, but it will undoubtedly help speed this process up. There was no further discussion here during the preparation of the budget, but I agree with the member of the Riigikogu that this is a very important topic and certainly needs more attention, so that the opportunities for homework in difficult virological situations are also better.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U423	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U424	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Of course, in the case of the previous answer, and in the case of this question at all, I always have this funny feeling when we talk about miles. We're still miles and meters. Maybe we should start talking about the yards and feet when we're talking about the units of measurement here. But I'll ask you something else. I could not count from the budget under the lines of the Ministry of Social Affairs, or rather the Ministry of Labour and Health, how much money will go specifically from next year's budget to increase COVID's capacity in our medical facilities. How many more places will there be, how many more medical technology will there be, how many are assigned to recruit staff, for additional staff? I didn't know how to read it. Perhaps this is a question of budgetary transparency. Maybe you can explain, maybe you could read it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U425	Thank you. No, in this light, there was no debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and I do not have that exact data to take. I suggest that you ask for an inquiry or a written question to the responsible minister, who will certainly be better able to explain it. As far as internet access is concerned, of course, "last mile" could be used in Estonian instead of "last mile." But "last mile," it seems, is too short. We have these base grid ends a little further away from the farms than one kilometer, then we should talk about the last two kilometers, which is getting a little awkward again. But we could discuss that concept. If the members of the Riigikogu have good ideas, then, I think, they deserve to be discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U426	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U427	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! The Social Democrats have proposed to increase the pay of rescuers, the pay of police officers, the wages of social workers, the wages of cultural workers. The Committee on Monetary Affairs considered that this was not a good idea. I understand it's not a good idea because you just didn't fit the source of cover we offered you. But I understand that the Commission did not want to find any other sources of cover itself. I can conclude from this that, since the state is now planning to pay back loans at an early rate next year more than it might have to, [instead of] supporting its people and paying fair wages, it was also the Commission's view that it is right to give banks priority to repay money as a matter of urgency and not to pay their people's wages. Didn't you?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U428	Thank you. Next year, the budget will include an increase in the salaries of cultural workers, internal security staff, medical staff and teachers. In fact, there are even more wage increases there, for example in the area of environment wages are rising. Of course, the ministers responsible would also like to raise even more wages, but really no more funds were found from the budget this time, not that they would recommend raising wages, but these are the options next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U429	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U430	Yeah, thanks a lot! I really do have a substantive question. Did that come up in the Commission? I see that there is a very significant decline in the social sector, with the budget for welfare programme activities falling to EUR 393000. Here you can see what has then risen and what will be lifted. But did the question come to mind that what was not done and why was not done? Care programs are usually very short of money. Is that what the committee was talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U431	Thank you. I do not have this first-reading verbatim or protocol here [to see] what we talked about with the ministers of the field. All ministers went to the Commission to present their areas of government in preparation for the first reading. I have a feeling that the question was raised when Signe Riisalo was there. This reason or explanation was something that nothing would be reduced, but because this programmed, activity-based approach is new, then, compared to last year, the activities were simply re-classified under other activities and consequently there are such major changes in the table.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U432	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U433	[[Remote connection]] Good Chairman and good ambassadors, who you are in that hall, and those who follow us through the Internet! In my opinion, my question is also substantive. How much money will be allocated this time to modernise or improve the ventilation systems in schools? We know this is a problem. Well, it's not like the crown virus's gonna be the only one, so there's gonna be more and more, we don't know how many of them are being tested in the labs out there. But just so we're ready and the ventilation system doesn't have to be so, ups, didn't make it again.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U434	Thank you. No, this is not the way the question arose in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. After all, not all schools are directly inside the state budget; they are often financed through local governments because the school holders are local governments. So it is quite difficult to sum up like this, but yes, in this form we did not deal with this amount.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U435	Merry Aart, please! Good Merry, please! You have your word.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U436	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I have a letter here that we have 46 seconds left, but I hope you can hear me.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U437	Yeah, ask nicely.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U438	[[Remote connection]] My question concerns the chaplain service and the military orchestra. One amendment also touched on this. I would ask in this way whether it was under discussion that this [orchestre] could not return to the Defence Forces. Is it about saving money, or is there another purpose here? I think it's very important for the state that the Defence Forces have an Orchestra.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U439	Thank you. All orchestras have found a new home today. We did not discuss whether and under what conditions they could be sent back to their former administration. But both ministers, both the Secretary of Defense and the Minister of the Interior, confirmed that both orchestras are fine.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U440	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U441	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Still, it would go back to the rise in wages. Socialist proposal on rising teachers' salaries, police, rescuers, social workers, cultural workers. You said your wages were going up. Yes, they are, but they are basically falling even in inflation, perhaps in some areas next year. The problem is that our wages are basically too low. These people are doing such a dignified, important job. The state should not treat its own people like this. Hence my point of clarification. Of course, the money is always the same, it is a question of choices. Today I didn't get an answer to that question. Did you discuss this, and was it the Commission's view that you prefer a higher repayment of loans to wage increases, which does not necessarily need to be done in such a difficult situation? Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U442	Thank you. There is indeed a limited amount of money in the budget. I think that here in the Riigikogu, too, there could be more debate on how to increase the revenue from the state budget, what activities to take in this regard. It would also provide more flexibility and opportunities for even wage increases. But no, in this light, this is not the angle we had in the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U443	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U444	[[Remote connection]] Good manager and Erki! What are you asking me? There are millions of figures here, and they're messed up like mush and cabbages. For example, four times more money has been allocated to animal health than to plant health and animal welfare, but for some reason the welfare of plants is not at all. But why, for example, has 1219000 been spent on the development of children and families in this budget, but in the case of gender equality there is one larger amount: 1390000? Is this gender equality more important than the development of children and families?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U445	Thank you. I believe that the importance of any area cannot be determined by the amount of budgetary resources there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U446	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U447	Thank you. My question concerns the emergency pension increase and the income tax exemption for the average pension. The Committee on Finance certainly discussed these issues, as well as the corresponding amendments. For what reasons did the Committee on Monetary Affairs not support the exceptional pension increase and the average pension tax exemption from 1 January 2022 and postponed it to 2023? However, we know that the pension reform has begun, and the coalition agreement states very clearly that it will be implemented with the money released from the pension reform. We know that these funds will be available this year, not to mention 2022. What were these considerations and arguments as to why this could not have been done from 1 January 2022?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U448	Thank you. However, the ex-conclusions in the Ministry's explanations were linked to the fact that these funds were not included in the budget for the following year; they were planned for 2023. Secondly, it was again mentioned that the information systems could not be completed within these weeks and that it would not be possible to apply either a pension increase or a tax exemption from 1 January 2022. However, the Committee on Monetary Affairs has supported both changes and the country's budgetary strategy also supports the fact that pension increases are taking place and the average pension becomes tax-free from 1 January 2023.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U449	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U450	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. Good Erki! Now I'm just asking for a little help from you. When I look at the minutes of your committee debate, at the minutes of the committee sitting, I see that during the debate on this draft Kristian Jaani said: "The number of government officials has fallen by 20% over the last 12 years. This decrease was due to technical solutions, optimization and an increase in average wages. " Well, the orchestra issue was unsolved. Can you explain, or did you understand what he meant by the fact that the number of officials fell through optimisation and the average salary increase and the orchestra share remained unsolved?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U451	Thank you. The Committee on Finance had an understanding that in the field of internal security or the administration of the Minister for the Interior, structural optimisation has been consistently pursued and efforts have been made to find ways of providing services of the same quality with fewer people. Their release has led to an increase in the remuneration of the rest of the staff.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U452	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U453	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I guess we're all talking about things that have a heart. At the moment, I have a very heartfelt ranch program, cultural support. A big hurrah went for it, a lot of hopes. Personally, I led a major international seminar where we discussed with experts how best to do this. And what finally came out, right, 1 million euros for the whole of Estonia, for all Estonian children, is ridiculous. Didn't you get such a discussion in the Committee on Culture, in the Committee on Culture it certainly arose, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, so that a little more could still be thought about and increase the amount of children's cultural experience and cultural consumption? You did not support the Socialist proposal, but was there any discussion about it, or is it simply that if it comes from the socialists, it does not support it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U454	Thank you. The Culture Framework Programme will be available in the budget for next year and for the first time, no such action has existed in the past. We agreed with the explanations given by the Minister for Culture that this volume is sufficient for initial piloting. I believe that, if this justifies itself, the Minister of Culture will come up with greater wishes for this measure on the next occasion.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U455	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U456	I can't not ask that. Honourable Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. You see, we have a purely technical and a little philosophically this situation. If it is Question Time and we ask ministers that, for example, there are certain criticisms or certain questions about investment, then the members of the government will tell us that they are only executive, Parliament will decide. Then Parliament comes together and wants to decide, wants to contribute, and there are very many good amendments on the table by the various political groups. You didn't pass any opposition proposals, you didn't find any good ones. It is actually quite abnormal that the teachers' follow-up, the social sector, as well as the cultural sphere, all the issues that were on the table, you voted down. I think this is a mockery of Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U457	Thank you. I guess these budgetary procedures in the Riigikogu have been so established that the second reading is a collection of ideas where the government reviews some thoughts that seem appropriate and comes here with these amendments during the third reading, when they have found support. On the other hand, it is also true that the Riigikogu has quite limited possibilities to find a source of cover. This does not allow for these amendments to be tabled very well. This is an issue that is certainly worth discussing next time there is again a change in the basic law of the state budget in this debate, so that Parliament's opportunities are better and the transparency of the budget is clearer. If it seems that the deadline that the government has set for the development of the basic law is not reasonable or stretches too long, then, of course, members of the Riigikogu have the right to initiate drafts at any time in order to discuss this issue more thoroughly in this large Chamber and hopefully reach solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U458	Procedural question, Kalvi Tough, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U459	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. I think I know the answer, but I'm gonna ask for it. I haven't read the Home and Rules of Procedure law for a long time. Erki's reply was that before the third reading, the government would propose amendments to this law and then they would come to the committee and the Chamber. At least in the past, it was at home and in order to allow the Commission or the political groups to propose amendments to the state budget before the third reading. Has this continued to be the case or has something changed?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U460	You're right. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U461	[[Remote connection]] Good Chairman and waitress! In the Fatherland, it has always been the view that business ends where the asphalt road ends. During this good crisis, a very large number of people have taken up our rural regions in order to eliminate the dislocation there. The Fatherland, of course, proposed to cover state roads even with this black cover. There was not much money and [it was] also for dangerous places, including the construction of bus pockets. My question is what the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs would offer as an alternative. Is there a gravel road for all people outside the city whose [home] is not yet, let's say, black-coated highways, but there is a gravel road, a preferential arrangement for SUVs in order to promote entrepreneurship?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U462	Thank you. As far as the Committee on Monetary Affairs was concerned, the Minister for Economic Affairs confirmed that gravel roads will continue to be covered with dust-free coating next year. I would, of course, like to answer Kalvi a little bit. Indeed, the Government does not have the right to table directly amendments which immediately appear on the list of amendments. But, like the proposals from all stakeholders that are received by the Commission, the proposals from the government will be formalised in the form of proposals from the Commission once they have received support.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U463	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U464	Thank you. Dear waitress, I'll come back to the issue of pay. Let us see what has happened this year: in an unforeseen economic situation, it was decided to freeze wages in essence by making this year's budget. That was also understandable, because we did not know what the economic environment would be as a result of this crisis. But it turned out that the economy in the boom, the average wages were rising in thunder, projected to have an increase of at least 7% in the average wage. At the same time, the people who are paid by the state will have zero wage growth, or 7% we have taken money out of their average wage. Next year, we know that the wage growth forecast will be 7% in the same way, and not in any of these priority areas will wages increase by 7% + 7%. In the debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs or in the debate with your colleagues in the government, did you not have the question of how we can so simply owe these people debt and say that you pay for this crisis? Didn't you have any discussion about perhaps raising at least 14% so that their pay doesn't fall short of the average wage?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U465	Thank you. No, we did not have a debate in this form in the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U466	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U467	Thank you. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! Your answer to my question about pensions, frankly, shocked me. The Committee on Monetary Affairs, in its collective opinion, found two arguments why not support it. The first was that this is planned by the government, and then it cannot be changed, that is the argument. The second was that it would not be possible to restructure the IT system so quickly. I would remind you that the previous government was able to implement the extraordinary pension increase and the IT systems were able to be organized. Are we really saying today that in Estonia, in the e-state in 2021, the average pension tax exemption for pensioners and the extraordinary increase in pensions will be cancelled because the Ministry of Social Affairs and Minister of Social Affairs, Tanel Kiik, are unable to cope with IT systems? I would remind you that a few years ago, for much smaller reasons, Minister of Social Affairs Maret Maripuu resigned because of the problem of IT systems. Now this problem is much bigger. Is that really the message?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U468	Thank you. This slow development of IT systems is a serious problem. I have dealt with this in many places, and I have asked in the same way whether it is true, because these changes cannot be so complicated. However, in these circumstances, the Ministry's assessment must be taken into account. Their assessment was that these amendments cannot be implemented before 1 January 2023. This time it may be a little more complicated that we are talking not only about old-age pensioners in this change, but about all people who have reached retirement age, whether they are receiving old-age pensions or not. Second, there are two tax systems: one applies to people until retirement age, and the other comes into force after that. It's really maybe a little more complicated than believing the explanations of the Treasury Department.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U469	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U470	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good Erki! Recently, when I spoke to the major hospital executives, they said that money is no longer motivation, as they say, no more flattering. We were talking about corona, but the medics are also in need in many other places. Corona is a relatively small part of it. I heard recently that the nurses' salary rose by 26 cents. At the same time, the volume of work is wild. How much really will the salaries of nurses or carers rise next year? Or have you considered that perhaps third-country workers who accept a much smaller one should not even be required? Then there's no need to add 26 cents, much less you can handle.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U471	Thank you. The Committee on Finance did not discuss for each particular post how much salary could change next year. However, all ministers have confirmed that they will do their utmost to ensure that wages in their area of government are competitive and that they can hire the best specialists in their area.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U472	It's a procedure. Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U473	Sorry, it went wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U474	It's okay, I get it. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U475	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! My question comes from the revenue side. We often talk about it in terms of how much and to whom to share, but on the revenue side there are not only tax revenues but also a number of state companies and institutions that pay dividend income to the state budget. We know that we have done a reduction in certain network charges in connection with the price of electricity, or the government has come up with this initiative. In addition, there has been talk of a reduction in RMK's dividend payments. What about this, was it discussed and how the state budget needs to adapt to these dividend expectations? In one way, I understand that prices are high and that the return should be good for companies, we are talking about the forest or we are talking about the price of electricity, but on the other hand, the expectation of the dividend tends to decrease.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U476	Thank you. When the Minister of the Environment introduced his area of government, he really said that in the next year, and even in the next four years, less dividends will be charged from RMK than the management of RMK has proposed. This is certainly not because productivity is somehow poor or because timber prices are extremely low, but rather because [should] reduce felling pressure and keep more nature. As far as other companies are concerned, their dividend expectations correspond to what the company's financial results allow. It could quite happen that, by the time of the third reading, some companies will be able to pay more dividends. The Riigikogu will then also have the opportunity to decide what to do with these extra resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U477	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U478	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! I have a question about education. During the first reading, both the Minister and the Chairman of the Reform Party Group said that 5 million will be allocated for the transition to education in Estonian. As Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, maybe you know exactly what these funds are planning to do. Secondly, quite a lot has been said about education as a priority and teacher secondary growth as a problem, which has certainly been discussed more widely in the Committee on Culture and in Parliament. In what form and form? I cannot find in this budget what amounts it will be supported. The third is the subject of higher education. Wages have risen 5.9% over the last three years, consumer price index 5.3%, while funding for higher education is only 2.3%. How can this government say that education is a priority?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U479	Thank you. I guess that's something the Minister of Education can tell you better. In the Committee on Finance, we did not have such a thorough debate on education.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U480	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U481	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. I heard there was talk about RMK's dividends. Their reduction was actually foreseen in the previous RES, last year already, so this has not only happened during this government. But I wanted to ask you what is the good position of the Chairman of the Monetary Affairs Committee on the fact that the Ministry of the Interior immediately started to take on those who needed the most money, for example, from the project 'Hollowfire times'. Here, the EKRE had a proposal to restore it and put more money in it. It is a real project that actually saves lives. Coming now to save the world, or rather, not the world, but precisely the Ministry of the Interior budget, is very bad. How is your personal position, shouldn't it have been necessary to find these tools to allow the cooperation project between the Rescue Board and local authorities to continue?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U482	Thank you. As far as RMK's dividends are concerned, indeed, they were also lower than in the previous country's budget strategy, and this time they were reduced to an even lower level. As regards management decisions in the field of the Ministry of the Interior, this area is governed by the Minister of the Interior, not by the Chairman of the Committee on Finance. In this respect, my personal opinion here is absolutely not important.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U483	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U484	Thank you. I will continue on the subject with which my colleague, Priit Sibul, started the debate on education. I am still more interested in funding higher education and in the sustainability of higher education. We've already heard of these salaries. But we know the ways in which universities try to serve themselves somehow. This means more English-language learning, more part-time learning, micro-degrees and so on, so on, at all costs every cent like to bring home to overcome the lack of money. In fact, we have repeatedly received appeals in the Committee on Culture that the State is violating its commitments under the administrative agreement and is not indexing the amounts that the agreement provides for. According to my understanding, the state still has a considerable debt to universities in accordance with administrative agreements. We have repeatedly tried to bring this matter to the Committee on Culture, Mr Viktoria. The chairman shall not carry. In another context, not in the context of the state budget, have you not come up with this topic of funding for higher education?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U485	Thank you. In the Riigikogu, there are different committees for different topics. I think that it is the Committee on Culture that best evaluates education issues. If the Committee on Culture says that, in the form of funding for higher education today, it can no longer last very long, it is, of course, a serious message and it must be dealt with. Both the Riigikogu and the Minister of Culture or Education can deal with this and seek better solutions. The Committee on Monetary Affairs is certainly not competent to say whether such a financing model is sufficient or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U486	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U487	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good Chairman. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! I have a question concerning the financing of municipal roads. The Fatherland also proposed to increase the funding for municipal roads. But it wasn't approved, and now there's 16 million under-funding. As regards the 33% of the money allocated, it should be said that during the previous government, municipal roads were much better met, at least at a minimum level. What was the Commission discussing on this question, and what were the arguments why this money was not found to the local authorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U488	Thank you. Well, that's a pretty philosophical question, isn't it, in whose time it was better and in whose time it was worse? It is also clear that circumstances are slightly different at all times. But the presentation by the Minister of Public Administration reminds me that local government funding will increase by more than 100 million. It was, I think, in the order of EUR 120 million compared to last year or this financial year. This money doesn't have a special sign. So each local authority can decide for itself whether it will use these tools to cover gravel roads under black cover, to improve the ventilation of schools or for other activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U489	Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U490	Thank you. Dear waitress, I'm still coming back to their wages. Do you agree with me that all public earners will lose their salary on the basis of this year's and next year's budget, compared to the average salary? After the discussions that the Committee on Monetary Affairs has been able to hold, does it seem fair to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U491	Thank you. I agree with you that the state can be sober, but stable. Once again, I call on you to hold a debate on how to increase the budget more strongly in favour of revenue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U492	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U493	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good chairman of the committee! I have a question about the construction of a fence and border facilities for the country's temporary control line, in this context, as a matter of urgency. We also heard from the Prime Minister today that, once again, the previous government and Martin Helme are a pain in the ass as to why we cannot do this at enough pace. You have already been a member of three coalitions, and you will soon be a minister. In what form do you see how we can build the border faster, given the changed security situation? Where do you think the resources come from? Why isn't it the Minister of the Interior, Jaan, but the Secretary of Defense Laane? Right now, the barbed wire is quickly being set up at the border and the resources are being found, but as I said, not in the Ministry of the Interior, but in the field of the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U494	Thank you. The Minister of the Interior has confirmed that there are no problems with border building financing, there are sufficient resources in the budget. A very large part of the border to be built is already covered by contracts, and it is working to ensure that sections of the border not yet covered by contracts can be completed earlier than the long-term plan has been drawn up. There is nothing left but to agree with the Minister for the Interior that it may not make sense to cancel already concluded contracts in the event of a rapid completion of the border, to start launching new procurements, hoping that a builder will have to be better priced or even faster, but should go to the end under agreed conditions. If something extraordinary should happen, the emergency funds that I know are being used as a countermeasure, both within the area of government of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and within the area of administration of the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U495	Henn Põllamaas, please! Please, Henn!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U496	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Honourable waitress! I would like to ask about development aid. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs claims that we do not have any partners to direct it to, the Court of Auditors also talks about, the European Union, that a large part of it is being stolen. We proposed to keep it at the same level as last year and to focus [amount] growth on recreational education and activities, but it was not supported. Is it true that the coalition and the government are in favour of sowing money abroad, where it can simply disappear or be stolen, rather than supporting our own young people?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U497	Thank you. This development aid is largely linked to the fact that [will] help these people already in their own country, not when they arrive here in Estonia or across the Estonian border with their wishes. At this point, I have no reason to doubt the position of the Minister for Foreign Affairs that these instruments will all be used in a targeted way. The budget also has funds for all the other activities you have mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U498	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U499	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Mr President of the Commission. The Minister of Culture of the previous government initiated the Estonian Humanities Research and Development programme, which aimed to strengthen Estonian research and development in the study of Estonian language, culture and history and to popularise research results. As we know, Estonian research has been underfunded and, in the general context of underfunding, our national sciences are particularly underfunded. The aim was that the programme would result in cutting-edge studies that would help to understand Estonian society and the sustainability of the state, it does not need to be repeated, which would have been particularly necessary under the conditions of globalisation. The programme was actually a very small amount, 3 million. With what argument was the proposal rejected?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U500	As far as I know, research funding will be 1% of GDP in next year's budget, which is quite good funding in the European context. Indeed, the Minister of Education has the greatest opportunity to make decisions within this funding. More specific questions that could be financed in higher education and research would make sense to ask him.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U501	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U502	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Chairman. Honourable waitress! I'd like to pick up my question where you left off your last answer. Indeed, an additional 120 million income tax is allocated to municipalities, which represents an increase of 9%. At the same time, the state's revenue base is growing by 17%. We looked at the same personal income tax, and its growth is actually 36%. This arrow is very, very strongly in the country [side]. Saying the roads for this 16 million road funds is one of the most important areas for municipalities and regional development at all, alongside education, so that rural areas remain at all, that you get so much anyway, is a demagogic exercise in itself and cannot accept it. My question is whether the Minister of Public Administration really was satisfied with this provision.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U503	Thank you. Yes, it can be said that, of course, this 120 million could have been written differently, that 16 million in road construction, another amount of millions in the ventilation of schools and something in the third and fourth domains. But really, the Minister for Regional Administration was pleased that it was money without a sign, extra money for local governments, which they could decide to use at their best discretion without having a specific label there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U504	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U505	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! I'm trying to touch a keyword like the oil shale industry. I looked very closely at the minutes of the Commission's sittings to find clues on how we are planning to proceed with this. Indeed, I see that, in principle, Jaak Aab was in the Commission on 4 October, gave an overview of his field and, to some extent, also addressed Ida-Virumaa issues. I thought it was so ascetic that I had to ask you if you could explain it to me better. On the one hand, it is clear that throwing oil shale into the furnace is not the smartest thing to do, but it is very reasonable to decompose oil shale and exploit our knowledge of oil shale chemistry. Does it show any kind of use of resources, state aid? Or can't I find it in the budget because it's not there?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U506	Good questioner, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U507	Thank you. It is undoubtedly a very important issue to deserve the oil shale. This is also confirmed by the fact that I believe that yesterday was the day the Minister for the Environment came to lay the cornerstone of the new oil shale chemical plant, which will help to bring this decompensation to a new level once again. I believe that these decisions will also come from others that will help to better match our few natural resources in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U508	Good waitress! Now, the thing is, there's no more questions for you. Thank you. Just as we always have at second reading, there is an opportunity to open negotiations. There are callers. I'm opening negotiations. Please join the Riigikogu Chair Jaanus Karilaiu. A little extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U509	Yeah, if I'm in trouble, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U510	How much?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U511	Two and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U512	Got it. Please! Two and a half minutes of extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U513	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good guys in the hall! When it comes to the budget, it is still the custom to talk about priorities and ideological emphasis, investment and government expenditure. However, today's budget is different. This is the budget coming out of the COVID-19 pandemic and the health crisis. Together with our partner, we have given priority to people's health, to maintaining the economy and to people's jobs. In the context of the world-wide COVID-19 pandemic, it is important to provide the Estonian people with a sense of security. Compared to many other countries in the world, Estonia has found a good balance between restrictions and keeping society open. The degree of freedom in this crisis is adequate. Tax receipts also show that our chosen path is correct. Of course, next year's state budget will give rise to social and health concerns. Under the conditions of the COVID-19 pandemic, we considered it reasonable to continue with the early reimbursement of the current sick days. According to this, employers' liability for the sickness benefit is the second to fifth day, and the liability of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund for the sickness benefit arises from the sixth day. Under similar conditions, close contacts between infected persons will also be compensated on the sick leave. It is also worth highlighting the innovation, according to which since the coming year, at an increased rate of 85 euros in dental care benefits will also be received by registered unemployed persons and beneficiaries of income support, which are estimated at 55000. At this point, I repeat that dental care is free of charge for people under 19 years of age and adult health-insured persons can use 40 euros per year of dental care benefit. The establishment of the Tallinn Hospital is undoubtedly also important. In place of the current East Tallinn and West Tallinn Central Hospital, a new, modern medical campus will emerge on Lasnamäe in 2027. There is no such thing in this region. A design contract was signed last week, and hopefully we'll be able to stay on schedule. The average old-age pension is currently 552 euros. On 1 April 2022, this will increase to EUR 591 as a result of the indexation. On 1 January 2023, the pension will rise exceptionally to EUR 20 and, in addition, the average pension will no longer have to pay income tax. If we add an indexation of EUR 43 on April 1, 2023, the average pension is projected to rise to EUR 654. The most difficult situation is for single-living pensioners, who have to take the costs into account with the utmost precision. We offer support to cover daily expenses. In particular, the support of a single-living pensioner will rise from EUR 115 to EUR 200. Of course, social tensions have been caused by the sharply rising prices of energy carriers, which affect our daily lives. Under our leadership, the government decided not to increase excise duty and to take measures to curb the growth of excise duties. We have also reduced network charges by 50% for all domestic and business customers. In addition, the measure will be launched for people with lower incomes, which will provide additional compensation for the increase in the price of electricity, gas and district heating. With these steps, we support Estonian families, households and the business sector. The Centre Party also supports the reduction of the value added tax (VAT) on energy, but discussions are still ongoing here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U514	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu speech chair Aivar Sõerdi. Please! How's the extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U515	Eight minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U516	Oh, come on. There's no extra time for eight minutes, only three, then eight. Got it. Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U517	Okay. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, The previous speaker has already spoken very much, but he has started with priorities. It's all right. Indeed, exiting the pandemic is a key word in the budget for next year, as well as supporting people's mental and physical health. This, of course, must also include the overall financial sustainability of the state, education and innovation, the green economy, foreign policy activity, defence and also the reduction of regional inequalities. But indeed, compared to the euro area countries, the Estonian economy has recovered more quickly. Compared to what was forecast in spring, the budgetary situation has also improved significantly with the support of a stronger economic environment and tax receipts. The budget deficit is decreasing faster than expected in spring, and the latest tax revenue data confirm that tax receipts are quite good. It is certainly necessary to control the day-to-day costs of the state. Although Estonia's public debt is historically lower than that of the other Member States of the European Union, we must consider that favourable interest rates on government bonds cannot last forever. The European Central Bank's extraordinary asset purchase programme will continue until March next year, but we are already seeing the interest rates on government bonds in the euro area and elsewhere in the world gradually increasing. The reforms planned for next year's budget, as well as cost-saving measures, will be a source of increased funding for teachers, internal security staff and cultural workers. We recall that in spring, when the country's budget strategy was drawn up, these options were still quite smaller. Ministries had to find savings in their government budgets. These spring assignments were fulfilled. By way of derogation, internal security and social issues were rightly excluded. A few more aspects, which I certainly want to emphasise. It is known that predictability of state policy is essential for economic development. That's right. The tax burden will remain stable next year, at 33.7% of GDP. At the same time, economic recovery, supply problems, fuel and energy price increases have led to price rises and inflation has an impact on people's livelihoods. On the economic side, we are already seeing companies lacking production capacity. Production inputs are increasing due to [high] energy prices and supply problems. In this situation, of course, caution must also be exercised when public spending is being increased too rapidly, which may give further impetus to price increases. Proposals were also discussed in the round of questions, i.e. there were 45 amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U518	46.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U519	... even 46, which really wanted to increase the cost of the state budget, still amounting to tens and even hundreds of millions of euros. Unfortunately, most of them could not be taken into account by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, because, with some exceptions, a very large part of the amendments had been covered by the money from the reserve of the Government of the Republic. In the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we asked what the reserve was made up of. Most of it had already been earmarked for money, and as of this debate, we were told that 9 million are, as it were, a so-called free reserve. So one year's budget cannot solve all the problems that have arisen in previous years. However, many areas will receive strong growth in funding. Let's take the cost of protection. The defence sector will receive more than EUR 100 million from the budget and the defence expenditure in the budget for next year will increase to EUR 750 million. The greatest defence budget in history will help to fill the gaps in the state's defence capabilities and strengthen Estonia's security more quickly. R &amp; D activities have already been mentioned here, with 1% of GDP. I would add more investment to the development of the digital state, and still these efforts to bring high value-added investments to Estonia and boost the innovation and export capacity of Estonian companies. The state of the economy makes it possible to raise the pay of teachers, to give extra money to level out student gaps. The increase in the wages of the rescuers and police officers working on the front line is one of the most important priorities of the Ministry of the Interior. However, yes, not all problems can be solved within a single budget. The financing model for higher education must definitely be further addressed. However, next year, EUR 5 million will be added to the operating grant for higher education institutions compared to the previous year. In particular, to ensure that the pay gap between university lecturers with doctoral degrees and teachers in general education schools is not stricken. The additional money will be used to raise the salary of lecturers with a doctorate. It is important to note that we continue to receive a very large proportion of our budget subsidies or non-tax revenues from the European Union budget. The active mobilisation and implementation of funds not used in the previous European Union budget period will continue and the first calls for proposals will be opened for funding for the new budget period. But, finally, I still note that social protection and health care are where the budget contributes and that health care workers are also guaranteed a collective wage increase. Additional money is needed to cover the costs of vaccination, to prevent the spread of the virus, to strengthen the Health Board. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] So the Reform Party Group will support the completion of the second reading of next year's state budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U520	Thank you. Now the word Urmas Reinsalu is on the Internet. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U521	[[Remote connection]] I listen to these awkward talk points of the coalition's representatives and I don't believe my ears. Jaanus Karilaid will speak to us during the state budget procedure, as if the coalition had successfully managed to eradicate the corona virus this year. And that's the thing to be bragging about right now when we're dealing with the budget! Twice this year, Estonia has been the world champion for the spread of the corona virus because of its failed management. It results in hundreds of [lost] human lives, resulting in a great burden on society as a whole. As the National Audit Office has also assessed, as regards the inability to cope with vaccination, it is a work that has not been carried out under management. As regards the boasting of pension increases, I recall that in the previous coalition there was an agreement to direct the money released from the pension resources to an increase from the beginning of the current year, i.e. from the beginning of 2022, but this coalition postponed this pension increase by a year to 2023. There is nothing to boast about. In a situation where there has not been enough control of the coronavir in society, we can see that for the most vulnerable sectors of the economy, catering, tourism, sport, the government's response is: go away now, we are not dealing with you. At a time when hundreds of millions of euros of KredEx measures have been used, which the state has also allocated with an additional budget, in order to crowd out coronavir. This is another example of failure. The additional budget for 2021 should, of course, have provided for measures to address the immediate, acute problems caused by the incompetent management of the crisis due to the amplification of [problems] and the release of [the situation] into storage, which are of a continuous nature and may last for months and months. One of the previous speakers spoke with pride that, in the event of a price shock for electricity and other energy carriers, the government coalition has developed a proud measure. Let me laugh! In the 2022 budget of this measure, which is now a proud one, the three-month reduction in network charges in 2022, how much do domestic consumers win? Within three months, EUR 5 million per month. This is at a time when the coalition intends to take hundreds of millions of euros from taxpayers alone in connection with the rise in energy prices. So you take the euro and give me a penny. Nearly 200 million euros are planned to increase the cost of energy to the state budget and 5 million euros will be received within three months. Let me laugh! This is all the more embarrassing of the unwillingness of the government coalition to support a simple reduction from 20% to 9% of the fixed-term value added tax (VAT) referred to in the European Commission's toolbox. I would remind you that this is also an effective path, one of the few roads that we can use in the euro area with current measures to curb inflation, because this measure will reduce inflationary pressures by at least 1.5%. The summer inflation forecasts of the Ministry of Finance have already blown up; we will talk about 8% inflation in Estonia in the coming months. The number the position of the government coalition. They are not able to offer macro-economic solutions in a really changed economic environment, in the current inflation crisis. I am very sorry that the government coalition did not see the possibility of losing the additional burden on consumers next year, the additional burden on both industrial and domestic consumers on renewable energy charges, and to compensate for this by channelling resources from the increase in the price of CO2 quota units as a public budget allocation to renewable energy producers. This, too, would have had a real impact on nearly EUR 100 million of consumers to reduce their price pressure and, again, would have had a significant effect on inflation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U522	Good waitress, would you like some extra time? Would you like some more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U523	If you could give me one, three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U524	Yes, please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U525	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for your generosity. So all in all, it can be said that this government is struggling to make decisions in the midst of the crisis concerning the health crisis. We can see that this indecisiveness, even in a context where the world market environment has changed with the rise in energy prices, has, of course, symptomatically spread to other areas of life as well. Undecided in good times may not be the most critical in the short term; in the long term, even in calm times, indecisiveness is, of course, a strategic mistake, but even in times of crisis, the failure to take the short-term decisions needed or to make them, in front of the side, will actually cost society as a whole in terms of economic coping in terms of the inability to actually mitigate the rise in the price of energy carriers by acting on the real economy, and also, without doubt, in terms of combating the coronavirus. My message also concerns national defence. I acknowledge that the government, under pressure from the opposition, expressed our distrust to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence, that the coalition abandoned this cut in defence costs, which was completely out of context, out of blue. I recall, in the spring, the government's assessment of the security environment and its interpretation of our aggressive neighbour, the pressure of the nuclear state, was to come up with a proposal to reduce defence costs. They understood that it was politically expensive However, the current security environment has undoubtedly become uncertain, and we need a completely different approach, which also concerns our capacity development. In my opinion, in long-term logic, in ten-year logic, we must refrain from relying on the planning logic of the RES. We need our capability development faster, and we also need the development of the eastern border faster. A few weeks ago, the government was introduced to the reference that there is a secret study or a secret threat assessment that there is really no threat to us at the eastern border. The same rhetoric is repeated by the members of the government. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] The fact that part of our eastern border is about to roll out barbed wire is one thing, but it only concerns part of the border and it is also a problem in itself. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] So we have problems, friends, we have problems. Let us then try to vote sensibly on the second-reading amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U526	Thank you very much. Now it is, I understand, a reception or a recess on the ground. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U527	Thank you, good manager. I did not understand, of course, whether Mr Reinsalu's speech was based on my speech or on the budget for 2022. I would, of course, appease Urmas Reinsalu. The fact that the infection rates go down and the tax receipts are good shows good leadership. So look out the window, good colleague, life gets better.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U528	Thank you. I beg you, Heiki Hepner!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U529	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, When we heard here, indeed, as if the priorities of the state budget were in the best order, most accurate and most in place, there is absolutely reason to doubt it. Of course, the government could even commend teachers in general education schools for planning a 7.3% wage increase if there were still no decent cup full of tar in this meteor tub. In order to raise the salaries of teachers in general education schools, the government reduces the funding of interest education and opposes one teacher to another. The funding for recreational education will be reduced by 27% in 2022, i.e. by EUR 4 million. In essence, this means that municipalities should either reduce their education of interest next year or reduce their salaries for teachers of recreational education. It's a reality. There is no point in saying that you may again [take] this mysterious 120 million, which comes to the municipalities not because of the good will of the government, but because of the good work of our people and the additional income tax receipts. It's a reality. The government's taking away 4 million of the money from the teachers of hobby education. But it's not enough! In fact, this support should have been paid to municipalities, well, out of 15 million [speaking], it should actually be increased by a minimum consumer price index, i.e. by more than half a million euros. But the government, take your finger, cut. With the same degree of interest education, the government has so far supported municipalities in paying the salaries of kindergarten teachers. Fortunately, the government did not cut this amount, but if you look at the increase in the cost of living and the principle that the percentage of teachers' wage growth should be uniform in general education, early childhood education and interest education, there is no reason to rejoice. Municipalities needed at least €1.1 million of additional support to ensure equivalent wage growth for kindergarten teachers. In fact, even the resources allocated to the increase in the pay of teachers in general education schools cannot be satisfied. Here, too, the amount allocated to salaries should be EUR 12 million higher to ensure that teachers receive funding above the minimum wage rate of 20%, which will motivate better teachers and reward various additional tasks such as class management, research and creative work [supervising] and so on. The resources allocated by the State to cover road maintenance costs do not cover the real needs of the municipalities. The basic data of the Estonian Association of Cities and Municipalities have a minimum need of 45 million euros next year to maintain the current state of roads and the quality of road maintenance and to ensure the minimum co-financing of projects. The state budget is set at 29,3 million, with 16 million under-funding, or more than 33%. The state of funding for public roads is not much better. By 2030, all gravel-coated country roads with a traffic frequency of at least 50 cars per day should be dust-free. Given the increased construction costs and the resources allocated, this is not achieved at the current rate of funding. At the same time, black-coated roads in good condition are one of the most important instruments for promoting rural development and implementing regional policy. The EUR 5 million allocated to the liquidation of traffic-dangerous places is clearly low. This is indicated by the long lists of proposals by the county traffic committees and the limited opportunities to address the problems raised there. Again, there's a problem, but it's just being overlooked. The abnormal situation has been caused by the exponential increase in energy prices and their failure to take account of them. Due to the sharp rise in prices, the country will receive about EUR 150 million more VAT from consumers than forecast. It is completely incomprehensible why the coalition wants to send people into the social security order. Why do people have to go through a bureaucratic gauntlet in a situation where the state receives more revenue from the sale of electricity, gas and district heating? A temporary reduction in VAT would cost EUR 75 million and would be the most effective way to alleviate the price shock. In addition to household customers, a temporary reduction in VAT would be of considerable help to municipalities, for which VAT on energy sources represents a very high cost. Thanks to the implementation of the second pillar pension reform, the possibility of an exceptional increase in pensions has been created...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U530	Dear Heiki Hepner, maybe a little extra time? A little extra time, maybe?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U531	Yeah, if the chairman's so kind, I'd like three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U532	Yes, please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U533	[[Remote connection]] That's cute! So, thanks to the reform of the second pillar pension, the possibility has indeed now been created to increase pensions exceptionally and to make people's average old-age pensions exempt from income tax. Unfortunately, the government has again acted incomprehensiblely and pushed it from 2022 to 2023. If we look at the increase in the cost of living, it is not possible to postpone it. If the government took responsibility and postponed the cost of living [ascension], then it might still be understood, but unfortunately, taxes and rising prices leave it to the people. So there is no reason why the government should keep EUR 160 million of pensioners' money on its own account for another year. Pensions should be raised at the beginning of the new year. If we start to sum up now, indeed, there has never been too much money in the state budget, even if the growth figures amount to almost EUR 2 billion, so that the state's revenue base grows by 17%. But the embarrassment of a situation where priorities still tend to disappear might even be said that these priorities have gone completely wrong at times. Unfortunately, this is the case in the current draft, and even the billions that have been added will not help. I really think there is a reason to look seriously at this budget. I call on everyone, ladies and gentlemen, to support the amendments made by the Fatherland, in order to somehow get these priorities back on the table and its budget more or less straight, so that we do not come up with a story again, which the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs said here, but you will get 120 million, municipalities. He does not mention that this 9% increase has been due to our good workers, but the state budget is growing by 17% and the same income tax, of which 120 million is paid to municipalities, is increasing by 561 million, or 36%. These are the figures that are kept silent and are embarrassed to look under the table. But, well, let's get these suggestions on the table, then there's a reason to look at the table, not under the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U534	Thank you very much. Now I ask the Riigikogu for a speech chair in Tarmo Kruusimäe. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U535	Thank you, good Chairman! And since everyone here is kind enough to get more time, I'll take two and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U536	Please! Two and a half minutes of extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U537	Whoo-hoo! We'll drink to that. It's my first time on the remote now that we're handling the state budget. This is the most sacred, most important document for the ambassadors. That's why I wouldn't be so critical as a human being, as an envoy. As we've learned, it's not really that much money, 9 million just what's left. It must therefore be said that our public finances are not in quite a good position at the moment. Yes, of course we all want our own areas to develop and progress. But there is another obstacle: then we will have these priorities and from all sides. Good Parmas told us in the Committee on Legal Affairs that there are already 18 priorities in the Ministry of Justice and there will be a few more each year. Ultimately, it is easier to discuss what is not a priority if everyone is a priority. The point of this is probably not to notice how the focus dissipates. Everyday life actually offers us more strange things. I don't see the readiness. No one knows anything about this crown virus, not even psychics know anything. But with psychics, has any of them ever won a jackpot in the lottery? Not yet. So I wouldn't trust them, I'm still talking about finance. If this virus finds a more infecting strain and we have to lock the state down, put in place an emergency situation, where is this compensation mechanism? We found out we only have nine million. I have always appreciated these moments when a committee chairman has defended here [the draft] for four to five hours. However, the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs said that it has not been discussed, has not been discussed. Maybe there's a feeling that maybe there's no discussion. Unfortunately, perhaps that is the case, I myself have been there a few times to make some presentations in the Commission, and I am not going to go too far. Because the point is simple: if there's a proposal coming from the ministry, it's gonna have to be confirmed. It was a little sad to hear that internal security and social affairs are not our priority at the moment. Now let's think about what we have. We are currently in great danger of a so-called hybrid war. We are actually calling on volunteers to turn themselves in. In case something gets out of hand, we may be getting a lot of Asian people on buses and airplanes who would like to come to Europe terribly. We've got 20 riot cops on this set. We'll set up our own industry, send Lithuania and the cutting wire everywhere. We could produce it ourselves and sell it ourselves somewhere, then we might have some resources, and we could get something else. In this situation, in today's crisis, where very many people have lost their jobs, it is also worrying that the number of suicides has increased. We should actually hold on to every person, but we hear that social[sector] is not a priority at this point. Simply put, we should look at the state budget not as perhaps some of the ambassadors think it is his personal purse and he is based on it, but on the drawing up of a family budget. If the family still has a desire to buy a big fancy TV, which maybe takes two months' pay, then in a situation where the mother has lost her job, the father has a part-time job and other family activities are prevented, under these circumstances it is not benevolent to say, "Fuck four," but we still buy this big LCD TV with this Surround system. Muki may discourage himself, even as a thin, thin dog, but what we have written is written down. I don't see that flexibility. What else could we have? Right now, the price of electricity went up, now, oh, wow, something came up. Although, in my opinion, the budget has not stopped at all because we have been hit by this consumer price index, inflation has not been taken into account as such. Well, actually, that's what it says when the new coalition came, the first thing was to cut some 5.2%. After all, it was not a funny question to ask whether 5.2 of Estonia's territory was still going, just as it has already gone. I think it's possible to do better, but there should, of course, be other players and other people. Of course, if they have enough of that wit to maybe look around. We here, as a people, are now covered by stable work, and perhaps we do not see the situation that is elsewhere. If it gets to the ambassadors somewhere, what do we say to people? Let us say that this has not been discussed in the Commission or that, unfortunately, we have remained second in these debates. I think a good, state-minded government would also take into account the possibility that we might be caught in another emergency that we cannot predict at the moment. We can already see that internal security, where some more money should be given, cannot do so because it is clearly not. There was some kind of threat. You have to open the radio, not look at the analysis they're giving you. These social problems, which people now have, are not my area of expertise, but I have not yet seen anyone who would say that, as a good crisis, it is a sin to waste this crisis in any way. If it is a good crisis and it is a sin to waste it, then make some more intelligent, pragmatic decisions, not so that we struggle and race for the priorities set in good times, because otherwise it will not be done. Several projects can be slowed down in five years' time, ten years from now. And then, Lord God, if this grass is really coming! I think in six years it will be realized that it is still completely screwing. Well, where are we gonna make up for these damage? This is currently not in the budget. I think the Estonian state will even survive this budget. I think so. For now, I do.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U538	We now welcome Helir-Valdor Seeder. Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U539	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, The more I listen to these speeches here today, the more I gain from the conviction that this budget needs serious overhauls before we accept it and also dare to look taxpayers in the eye [to say] what work we are doing on Toompea and how we share the money. I am very sorry that the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, who is not here at the moment, called the opposition amendments a pleasant idea collection. So this is entertainment for coalition ambassadors. None of the amendments were taken into account, but it was interesting to listen to them and read the so-called fictional material. Of course, that is not what we were doing. In my opinion, at least the amendments of the Isamaa Group, which were not very much, but all of which were substantive, had not been tabled to carry out any obstruction, but precisely to contribute to the coalition and to correct these errors when the government had failed or missed something in drawing up the budget. Now, if you try to highlight some in this short time, first of all the same pension story that has been going through here today. The Coalition Agreement states that an extraordinary pension increase will be carried out and the average pension will be exempt from income tax, and that this will be done with the money released from the pension reform. These funds have already been released. For some reason, the revenue base of this year's budget did not want to show what was clearly contrary to the basic law of the budget when the revenue is known. They just don't show. But the real thing is the receipts, and that's the receipts next year. In the previous government coalition, there was also an agreement that the additional income of the pension fund, the [this money] received by the fund, would also be used to raise the pension. The current coalition decided to postpone the pension increase for a year, and today the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs gave two reasons for doing so. First of all, the government has planned it, the government has planned it. That's the argument. The second was that it was not ready to restructure IT systems and the Ministry of Social Affairs simply does not have the capacity. Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiige lacks the capacity to restructure IT systems in the e-state so that it is possible to introduce income tax exemptions during the year when the coalition has been operating, essentially from January to December. IT systems cannot be implemented! This is a serious point of thinking and these arguments are not convincing. Next, compensation for the sudden rise in electricity prices. This was known when the government drew up the budget. That was known then, but this is another example of how the government follows events. This budget does not even provide for the solution that the government has now proposed: compensation for network charges. Even this must somehow be introduced along the side roads during the procedure. This is typical of the activities of this government. The problem was known, the subject was known, the solution needed to be found, but a budget was brought here, where there is no solution to this situation. The solution proposed by the opposition to temporarily bring VAT from 20% to 9%, which was also supported by the Commissioner of the European Commission, and which does not require people to go to local governments with applications to complain about social benefits, but which would be a solution for both legal persons and natural persons, is simply rejected. Go on, all the educational issues that I think are screamingly painful. When we talk about smart Estonia and the science-based economy, it is not possible to overlook the financial needs of the education system, the salaries of teachers, the follow-up of teachers and the financing of higher education. What do we see today about funding higher education? The existing management contracts for universities will expire in 2022, no new contracts will be concluded, and it will not be possible to conclude them on the basis of this budget, I say. Universities are certainly not ready to enter into contracts because such contracts simply cannot be awarded a high level and modern higher education. There is no solution in the budget, but the amendment we tabled has been rejected. Again, there is no solution at this time to solving border issues as a result of the security situation. There is no provision for any means of establishing a temporary border barrier, which the government has just decided on and which is linked to additional expenditure, or any other action it intends to take in relation to the security situation. However, we knew earlier that this problem existed. The opposition has repeatedly pointed this out; we have made a number of proposals that have been rejected. Nor is there any willingness, it seems to me, to build a permanent border line faster than is planned now, perhaps by 2026. Of course, this is obviously an unreasonable time to build a border. It is possible to bring forward procurement and, with additional funding, it will be possible to build up this permanent obstacle or barrier to the baseline significantly more quickly. Not to mention that it is incomprehensible why only 30 kilometres of barriers are being temporarily planned, although we know that the border is considerably longer. No solutions have been offered to Peipsi for either summer or winter conditions. All of these will certainly require additional financial resources, and they have not been planned. The corresponding amendments to the opposition are simply not taken into account. I come back to the beginning: they are called spoilingly idea-gathering, to offer interesting ideas, but that's what they're gonna stay for. Just as a result, we are giving the government coalition the opportunity to correct errors. This can be done when we interrupt reading this budget. Therefore, our group proposes that the second reading of the draft state budget for 2022 be interrupted so that we can make a thorough overhaul here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U540	It's settled. Let's get on with the calls. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U541	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I brought this cabbage, 600 pages, 40,000 rows. Annual ritual. The rulers come, speak with a joyful voice about what happiness will come next year, and some laugh. I was a little sorry about Aivar Sõerd, a colleague. I listened, considering Aivar's attitude towards this type of budget, but I'm sure he would have liked to talk a lot more about the matter of a broken bride, what to do with it. Jaanus also spoke hollowly here, very beautiful that he did. But I happen to be a member of a special budget control committee. The Special Committee on State Budget Control exists and we meet three times each week at least [meeting]. Jaanus doesn't know. He was talking about dental benefits, 40 euros. But Jaanus, the poor man, doesn't know that this morning there was a closed briefing on the Special Committee on State Budget Control and they told us where we've been in four years. It's gonna go public soon. About 14 to 15 million a year. I can't tell you how much goes where he shouldn't go. But it's millions. Jaanus, poor man, just doesn't know it. He started talking about how great it was. In fact, I can tell you so much, it's not nice at all. It should be changed capitalically. These were the recommendations of the National Audit Office this morning. In the Special Committee on State Budget Control, I see this every week. Whatever, the areas are different, but the result is that the Minister is still coming, thanks for the excellent work and it goes on. There will be another similar audit and the same situation in a few years. Nobody's responsible either. It felt like pain at first, but now I've become quite amusing. On the one hand, there are exact numbers, but at the same time millions fly and no one is responsible. In fact, with the state budget that we are discussing here today, we are giving the executive authority a bill of lading, we are giving a mandate, they are getting as much public money as they can freely use. All of you also know that this percentage is not very high in the whole pile of money, but in any case we will give authority to the executive. It's actually a statement of trust to the executive authority, the government. Of course, one side of the hall, yes, takes it that way, the other side thinks differently. A good colleague, Helir-Valdor, told me that we're gonna start repairs, take some time off. Heir's a much more experienced politician, he knows it's just hollow talk. All of this is actually going to be like Erki said here to pick up an idea. Irony: 46 suggestions for improvement, 45 ideas for grain and water for all. So, look what's in there. Yeah, there may be ideas, but we'll mow it all down. Now, if you look at these 40,000 lines, we should actually be able to say what's on these 40,000 lines and shape it, but unfortunately the background is that we don't know what's really there. I have admired Aivari, who has elegantly spoken here as a finance specialist, how it really is. We really don't know that. And yet we give authority to the executive. You could say, yes, okay, we'll give authority to the executive, no matter what we call it, it's a deep state or it's not, and they'll bust. But the degree of generalization is so great. Really, it's gotten a little smaller, moving quietly, I hope, where it should go, where it should be. But if there is a very high degree of generalisation of these big money, then they can be slowly pushed here and there, and as a result, life is quite comfortable.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U542	Would you like some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U543	Yes, I would. As much as you can still do.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U544	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U545	Yeah, yeah. Who do we give power to? I have a new party date. He is the creator of Estonian intelligence offices and the first head of foreign intelligence. We've been talking to him about the deep state lately. Ants Frosch hasn't written about it, but I hope he does. You can't say for him, some dumb-ass fool who doesn't know. There is a deep state, there is quite a reality, and it is not some mysterious company. That's a lot of the company that sits around, and to whom we give money and blanco powers to spend it, and who looks at us like useful idiots. They're walking around with a big face. Oh, I'm a parliamentarian, I know how this works! But actually, we don't know anything, so let's keep a so-called dignified posture. Of course, there are different people among us. After all, we have a colleague, Jürgen Ligi, who says that the budget is a government document and long disputes that are held, mostly in the administration and then in the government, but not in the Riigikogu. We're basically useful idiots who have to take it easy here. But it's convenient to say that we're parliamentarys, we know we're going to do repairs, as Helir-Valdor said. We all know that no repairs here will come in this form, though they may. Leo looks at the military field or Helmen's social field, there's plenty of wisdom everywhere. But these ideas only arrive when they are [come] from the right side, from the coalition, and not even then, because who it is bothering to work through 600 pages, to understand what is really there. I've been trying to do this every year. I'm not in financial education. But I have understood what Aivar Sõerd has long understood, and sitting on a special budget control committee... Oh, by the way, remember, it was just that, in August, when the Auditor General Holm showed that these figures for hundreds of millions were also incorrect. A million a day, right? 365 million, right? All of us with a smart face look here and say it's right, actually, millions have flown.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U546	Mr. Ernits, time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U547	Yeah, that's all I'm saying. So, in any case, a beautiful bell, a ringtone could still come. Good luck to you and to all of us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U548	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U549	Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable coalition and, in fact, all of us politicians who are working here for the country! There's a saying that wanting means finding a way, not wanting to find reasons. In this budget, I see above all the reasons for not going ahead with important issues and not finding opportunities. We admit to ourselves, yes, our attention has now been seized by the corona crisis, but this crisis, we hope, will be over, and then other crises will come to light, the signs of which we see and know, but what we are not dealing with, we do not, we do not want, we do not pay enough attention. A number of these crises are in the field of education: secondary teacher growth, funding for higher education, education of interest, and the salaries of kindergarten teachers. The coalition had the opportunity to unwrite these topics and come up with solutions. The second option was to listen to the opposition. But no, all the corresponding amendments have been voted down at Commission level. That's it. Teachers' follow-up, hobby education, funding higher education, all of them. What more needs to be done to ensure that the executive listens to what Parliament is saying? Let me briefly remind you that two years ago the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu set itself the goal of working through the topic of teachers' secondary growth. A plan for action was also completed, followed by meetings with the Ministry of Education and Research and representatives of all kinds of stakeholders, including universities, students and third sector associations. In particular, the focus was on teachers. Last autumn, the Committee on Culture brought the topic to the Riigikogu as an important national issue. The analysis then took place again at the level of the Commission and all the political groups were asked for feedback. Following this, a list of proposals to the Government of the Republic regarding ensuring the follow-up of teachers moved from the Committee on Culture to the Government of the Republic, which mentions steps to bring the issue of teacher follow-up out of the crisis. The importance of the document sent in spring is that it is cross-party, and everyone agreed. The list is long, but very specific for a consensual cross-party paper. Both coalition partners agreed. Parliament has done a great job, the government has the floor, and as stated above, action is needed immediately. But what do we see in the budget? The increase in teachers' salaries is necessary, but it is not enough to come out of this crisis, and inflation is also greedy. Solutions have come to the table from the Committee on Culture. Why don't you use them? I guess it's not a priority. The same weeping is the situation with funding for higher education. At the level of the Commission, the ORTC, organised by the [membering] coalition ambassador of the Support Group, has been organised, and the seminar has been held. Can't see what? Reflection in the budget. In the meantime, there's only words. Today you had the opportunity, coalition partners from both sides, to support solutions and to prove that priorities were furnished by actions. But no, you chose words. We are driving at a high rate into a deep crisis in the field of education, there is a teacher drought, higher education is losing quality due to underfunding and only a limited number of children participate in recreational education. We risk the most important assets, the brains of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U550	Thank you. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U551	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Honourable Vice-Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, When I was here listening to the speeches of the coalition representatives, I got this feeling that I don't think it's gonna get any better in the state budget. In the meantime, it even seemed that perhaps we had different drafts, coalition ambassadors and opposition ambassadors in our hands. Over the years, the processing of the state budget has undoubtedly fueled passion. I tried to remember whether there were any budgets in which the coalition and opposition ambassadors had agreed and expressed the view that this was a very good compromise that would satisfy both parties. I have to admit, I didn't remember a budget like that. Unfortunately, it must be acknowledged that this precedent obviously does not happen this time, in the course of this budgetary procedure, so that we can say that it is a very good budget and that all parties are satisfied with it. Here are some aspects that the opposition in the Committee on Monetary Affairs has put forward as proposals for the table and which, unfortunately, have not been taken into account. We have talked about having a major crisis for nurses and health professionals. Many qualified nurses and care workers are missing in the Estonian health care system. The Union of Estonian Sisters has raised the issue repeatedly, but in this budget we do not see the means to do so. On behalf of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, we have proposed to add 1260000 euros to the budget in order to create additional training places for the training of nurses and carers. What was not, however, was not the support of the coalition ambassadors in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Once again, the question arises as to why words and deeds differ. We have been hearing here from government representatives for a long time that there are people missing, we need to do something right now, but if help comes, it is suggested that we do it together, put together more, increase the training money, then we will be able to get out there again, that it is just a blank story, but unfortunately there will be no action on words. Or we will take the same proposal from the Ministry of Internal Affairs to save the costs by not being obliged by the Rescue Board and local authorities to clean up the fireplaces together to help those families and people who are under-insured, to whom it is very important to get the fireplaces renovated and the maintenance work done. This is really something that people really need. This is a direct life-saving measure. EUR 600000, EUR 600000 was the one that started to save the Ministry of the Interior budget. We proposed that the EKRE add EUR 1 million, because the money that was there before was actually very small, and it was missing. But what happened? What happened again was that the coalition ambassadors did not consider it necessary to support it, even to discuss the fact that we are trying to find the solution to find the money, to help people who are in serious trouble. It's not coming, it's not coming. We constantly hear how this is important, how we have to help, how we have to do, how all people are important. And when we start talking about what we're doing, it's just talk. Or we are talking about the need to have money in the budget to save the shipping sector. The current measure, 7.7 million, has helped our shipping sector to stay on the water. We proposed adding 7.7 million. Yeah, it's true, there's been a suggestion from the coalition to put something there, EUR 2 million. This is, of course, better than nothing, but there is little, in fact there is a need to support this sector. There are many and many of these proposals that were made by the EKRE in the field of education as well as in other areas. Even so, the Defence Forces orchestra and chaplain service will be restored to the Defence Forces and the chaplain service will be restored. But nothing happened. There was no support. Therefore, unfortunately, this time, too, there will be no budget that could be said to be a good budget and supported by both the opposition and the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U552	Mr. Sõerd! Do you have a procedural request or a rejoinder request?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U553	Yes, if I may, since my colleague Peter Ernits mentioned me three times.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U554	Then press "Word" next time. But while you have received the floor, the rejoinder, two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U555	Thank you. Peter spoke about budgetary transparency, which is very right. But you can't open all the topics in eight minutes. In fact, Peter himself has even made a working group on budgetary transparency. This task force could be revived, and I'd be happy to join in. Soon we will have the time of this Riigikogu, but we have not been able to get together properly. My colleague Peter, I'm ready to join in. The issue of budgetary transparency is a major and serious issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U556	Now we've got Priit Onion in the chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U557	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. It's good to go on from here. I absolutely agree with Aivar. All sorts of things have already been said about this budget. Those who approve have approved it. Those who have seen mistakes have been slandered. I am also talking about some aspects that concern me, or rather, which I heard relatively little about here. First, the one that's been through a few calls. Exceptional pension increases, which for some reason do not exist in this budget, although there would be resources in the budget due to the pension reform carried out through the voluntaryisation of the second pillar. But somehow, the coalition has decided that these resources should be expected by older people for another year, for which there is no reason. Secondly, education, thirdly national defence, but I will talk about this a little later. Now about education. Words say that this is a priority, but in fact, when we look at it, it is not reflected in the budget as a priority in any way. We will take the subject of the transition to education in Estonian, which was discussed at first reading by both the Minister of Finance and the Chairman of the Reform Party Group. The point remains, of course, because when we look at what we do, we see that the minister is based on the understanding in his actions that the wise does not rush. Good Liina, this isn't a bad guy! You promised me a plan, but so far no one's seen it. In the explanatory memorandum to the budget, we can see that the plan should be developed in 2021. I would remind you that the Riigikogu is still working for four weeks, so we are already in a hurry, especially if we would like to get into it. Through this plan, the Education Action Plan will be designed to give everyone a level playing field to continue their studies at the next level of education and to participate in social and professional life. The kindergartens and schools will receive the necessary funding, which will enable them to organise their studies in Estonian. More attention will be paid to supporting a learner in other languages in the Estonian language school, which was to be completed in the spring of 2021, and a new financing model will be launched from autumn. I think it's time, but I haven't seen anything happen. The plan is to support students with other language of instruction in the acquisition of the Estonian language, language training for school-age new immigrants and adaptation to the general education system and vocational education. In early childhood education, further professional Estonian-language education will continue to be included in the Russian-language groups, as well as broadened in the first classes of the programme with the aim of ensuring an Estonian-language teacher with each Russian language of instruction in the first class. In ten months, however, nothing has been done to lead the Prime Minister's party towards the transition to education in Estonian, and the allocation of a few million euros will not help us here. Let's hope the minister comes up with a plan soon. Another important issue that my good groupmate Viktoria Ladõnskaya-Kubits has been carrying out in Parliament, and which we have discussed here in this large Chamber, also under the leadership of the Committee on Culture, concerns the topic of teacher follow-up and its priority once again, for some reason only in words. You can't see it in the budget. We all know that from the beginning to the beginning, if we were to wait for any results in this area, it would be right for several years. It is clear that this government will not do anything in this direction in 2022. There will certainly not be a start in 2022. Then there is the area of higher education, where we also proposed to allocate 20 million, because we all know that higher education operating grants for public universities have 162 million and 201 million to ensure access to higher education. Although higher education expenditures have increased in Estonia over the last decade, they have remained below GDP growth. Underfunding higher education is a problem that jeopardises the long-term quality of Estonian higher education. In the absence of money, universities have limited the volume of electives offered and have been forced to increase the number of English-language curricula instead of Estonian-language curricula. In addition, several specialties have been closed. There's nothing to be happy about, just to express frustration. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U558	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U559	Professor Asser, rector of the University of Tartu, has pointed out that the consumer price index has increased by 5.3% and wages by 5.9% per year over the period 2017 Inflation and wage growth are expected to increase even faster next year, which means that the gap between cost of living and under-funding for higher education is widening. Yes, the previous government was able to agree that R &amp; D would receive a percentage of the budget, but that investment in higher education would not go hand in hand with GDP growth and real needs. A similar concern is the reaction to national defence costs [needs]. A good colleague has already recalled that in the spring the RES planned a reduction in defence costs. Thank God the mind came to its senses and the situation survived. But given what is going on over the weather and close to us, given the real situation, we should have long forgotten our 2%, defence costs must take account of the actual security situation. The border must be built quickly. In my opinion, defence costs should be a billion. Other countries are acting, not in the light of the budget routine, but in the light of the actual situation. For example, Japan has also reported a significant increase in defence costs over a long period of time, referring to the real security situation in the world. Good coalition ambassadors! More contact with reality! Our way of managing a country like the crisis is also leading to a country crisis. When you are in contact with reality, it is possible to prevent and not all arrive unexpectedly and afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U560	Now, please, Riina Sikkut!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U561	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Indeed, we have heard from two points of view about this state budget, and he is not. 13 billion is a very large amount of money, and it can do a great deal of good. There is no doubt that there are costs that cannot be ignored: obligations arising from the law, costs that have always been incurred and have not been reviewed. At the same time, the budget, as the most important instrument of the government, should still bear the priorities of the government and take us towards Estonia's long-term goals. But we can see that this budget has clear concerns. Let's start with the percentage cuts we've been talking about for over six months. We can see that the cuts concerning recreational education, but also, for example, the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, are still included in the budget. Children get 4 million less access to an interest education. This is particularly the case for rural areas, for those regions and for those children who have had poorer access to recreational education, for less choice in the form of hobby groups. This will undoubtedly damage Estonia's future in the long term if children cannot develop their talents and actually maintain their mental health through activities of interest. In the same way, the cuts of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, which put the work of the Riigikogu Working Papers and Development Monitoring Centre at risk. It's not right, it's not dignified. Ironically, the analysis of the future-proof tax structure of the Monitoring Centre has just been completed, and today it has been introduced. I think that a lot of people in this Chamber are going to use this analysis, quote these figures and base it on tax policy discussions over the next few years. It is a unique input, it is a necessary input, and no doubt this type of activity, this support should also be financed for the Riigikogu in the future. But we're not just talking here, I don't know, maybe theoretical damage. These cuts, for example, that have to be made in the field of education and internal security in order to be able to raise the salaries of teachers and policemen and rescuers, are already a real loss. For example, the EUR 3.5 million cut in internal security means fewer than 50 police officers, the seats of the policemen in Põlva, Valga and Võru district will be lost. The opening hours of the Citizenship and Migration Board offices are shortened, there are days when these offices are closed, which means that the availability of the service is reduced, the state is distancing from [people] in many areas of Estonia. This is not a state reform when a percentage cut is imposed. An area of already tight and financial need, such as internal security, can raise wages and keep employees, but it means a weakening of internal security for all of us, a loss of security for us. We can't afford to make decisions like that right now. Teachers' pay has been repeatedly discussed. Indeed, the pay of teachers will increase somewhat, but with this step we will not achieve the goal in the next three or four years that the teacher's salary will reach 120% of the average salary in Estonia. That's what it takes to keep teachers growing up. In fact, the rise in the salaries of teachers, police officers, rescuers, cultural workers and social workers should be about EUR 200 per year, three years in a row, so we can reach the sectoral objectives. This step, which is being taken with the state budget, remains very short. In areas where this half step is taken, it also comes at the expense of something else. Such a blow to internal security, for example, we should not. At first reading, the Minister of Finance pointed out that internal security would be better suited and in shape. It must be said that the Minister of Finance was wrong. There is nothing better, the form is getting worse, especially in areas further away from Tallinn... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U562	Yes, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U563	... we see this effect much stronger. This concerns security, education of interest, access to public services. So the expenditure figures of the state budget are not in line with the long-term goals of Estonia and the priorities formulated by the government members. That is why the Social Democrats have proposed that the second reading be interrupted, because, as has been presented today, amendments have been very constructive. In fact, many of them are cross-party, in the sense that they concern, for example, teachers' salaries, so that teachers' wages can be differentiated in order to ensure teachers' secondary growth. These proposals are made by several political parties, they deserve a substantive debate and they deserve to change the budget so that the necessary decisions can be implemented from the next financial year. I would ask for support for the Socialist proposal to suspend the budget at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U564	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U565	Eight minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U566	Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U567	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Riina Sikkut for her general overview of the important issues of the Socialists and, of course, for repeating our proposal at second reading, to suspend the procedure for the draft. I'll join them in every way. But, as usual, other people and representatives of the group are here to talk about issues that are close to their hearts and concern them. If there are no solutions to these concerns from the state budget, we need to talk about it and this needs to be addressed. That's why I came here today to talk. In my favourite areas, of course, my concerns and concerns are the issues of education and culture. Several colleagues have already spoken about this here several times today, after all, it is our common concern. But, unfortunately, it seems that this common concern is just like a part of Parliament's common concern, just like the opposition's only concern. It has already been said repeatedly that 44 proposals that are very substantive, very good and improve the lives of the Estonian people have simply been voted down, without special explanations, and are called an interesting collection of ideas. Well, it's not a good thing to do that. The only proposal from Parliament that has been accepted was the amendment tabled by the coalition partners. Again, which parliamentary culture are we talking about and how can we continue this debate so that it is Parliament that decides, Parliament's proposals are important, Parliament pays the floor? As we can see, only the word of coalition parties, and on a very small scale, costs EUR 2 million or something. I am sorry to hear and regret that the outgoing Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and his colleagues have such an attitude. But these worries. Of course, teachers' pay, teachers' pay increases and teachers' pay are differentiated and complementary instruments for local authorities. They've been talked about here. We recognise the coalition that some amounts for wage increases have been found in a situation where the target is 120% of the national average, and this year it is only 85%. They're moving on a little bit. But the average salary runs away a lot faster, plus inflation and all that stuff. It is a pity that the Socialist proposal to raise the pay of teachers, to increase resources was not supported. This does not in any way help to show teachers that their work is valued, to ensure that teachers succeed, to bring more ambitious motivated young people into the teaching profession and to go to schools. Of course, differentiation, which is a lot of talk. School leaders say that they need to be able to reward teachers for additional work. To this end, we do not find enough resources again and it does not seem to be a problem: class management, supervision of research and creative work, all other additional work. School leaders need this support. Yes, we know that we have quite a lot of capable municipalities who find this money from their own budget. Let's be honest, most of it still costs the minimum of the country and not even a knucklehead, not a cent more. If we don't solve this problem now, it's gonna get worse. There has also been talk about the subject of recreational education. The Socialist Group has been talking about the education of interest since spring. Yeah, they found some more money, but it still doesn't solve the problem. This missing amount, which would restore the current situation, would be EUR 4 million. This was not possible at the level of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Local governments such as Kohtla-Järve, where I come from, their finance people, the financial people of this local government say they're going to close the circles, they're going to shut everything down because they have nowhere to take that money. Contrary to what the Minister of Finance and the Government are telling us here. And, of course, the gambling money we were talking about. We very much hope that the economic situation will improve and that the gambling tax will increase. But we're gonna freeze him at this year's level. The Socialist proposal was that we restore it and raise it as expected, as was planned at the beginning. No, no support was found for this either. Here again, it is those who are in the weakest position: children, young people, culture, sport, disability sport, small regional investments, small cultural investments. It's not good behavior for the government coalition. Of course, the cultural field, the same cultural pack project. A very big hurrah started this project, big promises were made to sectors, educational institutions. I know several schools that already started setting up and changing their curriculum to provide children with more opportunities for cultural experience. And what do we see? A million euros a year for all of Estonia, for all tens of thousands of children, for several hundred thousand children. Well, not a good attitude, not a good behavior. We are talking here, in summary, about very small amounts in our 13 billion budget. "No, these proposals have come from the opposition, let's just vote them down." Of course, an increase in the pay of cultural workers. Here too, things can be done, additional resources can be found to value our cultural workers. The salaries of both teachers and cultural workers contribute very well to the gender pay gap, which we talk about very much. Here, too, we should think beyond our party political interests. As Mr Riina Sikkut has already said, the Social Democrats cannot vote in favour of such a budget. That is why we proposed that the second reading be interrupted. We call on the coalition's common sense and invite the coalition ambassadors to take some account of the opposition's proposals. They don't just come out of the blue, they come out of the heart because the heart hurts because of a lot of things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U568	Helmen Hunter, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U569	President-in-Office of the Council. Good fellows! The people who have spoken to me, who have tabled amendments, and the groups have, in fact, already pointed out a great many problems in this budget. I would like to bring a little more clarity to one issue and add a list of what has been said and what needs to be resolved. There were 45 amendments, but as good colleagues have pointed out, none of them have been considered in part or in full. It's just not accounted for. I would like to talk about Amendment 15 on raising the level of subsistence. A little clarification for colleagues as well as other people who monitor our transfer that the size of the subsistence limit is set by the Riigikogu in the state budget. It is currently EUR 150 for the only or first member of the family and 80% for each subsequent adult family member, i.e. EUR 120 and 120% for the minor child, i.e. EUR 180. The last changes were made to the subsistence limit in 2019. This EUR 150 must be enough to pay for medicines, food, household goods, clothing, communication services, consumer goods and so on. We all know that increased electricity will certainly affect all these spending items. The amendment that I tabled with my fellow Members, Mr Kaljulaid and Mrs Sikkut, is very simple. This is about raising the income limit to 170 euros for the first family member, as you can remember, so far it is 150 euros and as a result of the change, the income limit for the second family member and each subsequent adult family member would grow to 136 euros from today's 120 euros and the income limit for each child to 204 euros per month, from today's 180 euros to 204 euros per month. It's a simple law amendment, but it helps a lot of people. On 29 October, one of the richest and largest local governments in Estonia, the City Government of Tallinn, and the Deputy Mayor, addressed the Social Committee of the Riigikogu. On 29 October, it was not yet clear to local authorities how a support measure such as an additional support measure for CO2 financing would be implemented, which should provide assistance to families living in relative poverty to mitigate the effects of higher energy costs. The Tallinn City Government has given very understanding reasons. They, too, have sought an adequate, or coping, increase in the subsistence limit. It has also been pointed out that, now, I am quoting from the letter that the size of the target group mentioned could, in the initial estimates of the Ministry of Finance, have about 70,000 people who are going to receive funding from this new support measure, but it has not been thought out how aid can be delivered to people in a way that does not entail an inhuman administrative burden on local authorities, is simple and clear. In parallel, about 10,000 families received income support in Estonia in 2020, which is seven times less than the target population planned. It goes on to say that all people in difficulty deserve to live in dignity, but first and foremost, the need to ensure adequate management for families with children should be stressed. Poverty can have an irreversible impact on children whose social communication, development, and mental health, as well as their ability to cope in future life, will continue to affect their family's resilience for years to come. On 11 November, the Estonian Association of Cities and Municipalities addressed the Ministry of Finance. He pointed out 30 problems and the issue to be resolved, precisely in terms of mitigating the effects of energy cost increases on families living in relative poverty. These 30 proposals and problems are set out together with explanations. I am talking about one of these problems so that you can understand what this means, how these people are actually going to get this support or not. It is referred to here that aid can be granted retroactively up to a maximum of four months. Therefore, it is assumed that the municipalities will pay the aid by January 2022 at the latest. This means that, within 1.5 months of this time, municipalities will have to find and hire additional staff, create physical jobs for them, provide training, including STAR's IT system, which is used by the social sector, and establish procedures for the payment of support. Has the capacity of [the municipalities] and [the reality of this proposal] been adequately assessed during the drafting process? Is it possible to examine the relevant analysis? We also note that a family that can cope for four months without support may not be the target group. I mean, he'd need support sooner. If the obligation of a local authority to draw up a regulation remains, four months may not be enough and in that case, support for September can no longer be guaranteed in February. It seems unreasonable to grant ex-post support in a situation where the price of electricity has already increased. There are many other reasons. The question is whether this measure could not have been implemented in the past, however, would it not be more reasonable, given the administrative burden on municipalities in relation to the situation of the kroon virus and the already heavy burden on social workers, to resolve it in other ways. Good friends! This is the other way to raise the limit of living. If we raise the subsistence limit, those families who would otherwise go to apply for this support will be better able to cope with it. It was very early in the media to advertise this new support, but the local authorities had not received any information, they started to ring their phones, people started to turn to them. They cannot help them because no one knows how this measure will be implemented. Please support Amendment 15 because it would also solve this problem. Finally. Unfortunately, this budget does not reflect any relief in compensating people for their participation in long-term care. Place taxes on care homes are already rising from 1 January 2022, but they are allowed to be implemented, and the Ministry has made this a priority since 2023. This is exactly the same as the increase in pension rights in the form of an increase in the base share from that time to the average pension tax exemption. Then why is it done? Riigikogu elections are coming! Next year, see for yourself how you're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U570	Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U571	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Everything I have heard here is absolutely right and everything deserves support. I won't take long. I also think that, of course, this is not the place to discuss it, but I have not heard any proposals on how to increase the revenue base. That money doesn't come from under a tree. It still comes from business, from the economy. I agree with everything that if all of this was financially covered, it would have to be covered and much more. But I believe that we need to think about how we can support the economy, support entrepreneurship, because the whole public sector, all the concerns that we have today, they are actually to cover the economy. Since the economy is not going very badly right now, I believe that this is a positive direction, I would be optimistic in that sense. I understand the concerns, and I agree with absolutely everything, but we must have somewhere to take that money. We can think perfectly at home. Many short-term borrowers have gone this way and developments have not gone very well. I support all those who have put forward proposals alongside very serious concerns, but I do not think that we can look at the real economic environment in any other way. This is how these things go and have gone in Estonia. I really want optimism and strength for all of us. I think all these things are slowly happening. I have the same problems that you have that you have brought here before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U572	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U573	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen and our evening listeners! My colleague, Urmas Reinsalu, made a good point in his speech of these spring messes that we had around the cost of defence. Distrust of the Minister of Defence is not the usual procedure in Estonia, but it took place. Could these confusions have been avoided? Yeah. Was it all necessary? No, it wasn't. But right now, I'd say it's the end of the good, all good. Defence costs will be EUR 749.6 million next year, representing 2.31% of the estimated GDP, as forecast for next year. There is a reason to congratulate the government. I'm really taking this opportunity here. But now the question is what happens next. What happens next? In the spring RES, we say that in 2023, the level of defence expenditure should fall to 2.16% of GDP and to 2.02% in 2024. The new National Defence Development Plan 2022 It has been drawn up within the framework of 2.00%. 2,00%. In this security situation, can we afford something like this? I'm gonna say I can't. Therefore, in spring, I have a serious request to the government to review the RES framework again and do not endorse the National Defence Development Plan until you have revised and substantially expanded the RES framework. So from the 2.3% we have achieved now, we should not go down, but vice versa, in this security situation, we should go up instead. In what year were we supposed to reach 2% of the cost of protection? It was 2002. What year did we actually get to that? It was 2012. In the nineties, defence costs were less than 1% of GDP at all. What development plan did we have for the first time in midland anti-aircraft and tanks? I'm telling you, it was written in the National Defence Development Plan 2009-2018. And what happened? The economic crisis came and cuts were made. This plan could not be implemented. It would have made sense that when the cuts came, then the sums should have been compensated. But none of this happened. The Ukrainian war had no impact on these processes either. Now we're in a situation where we have very serious power gaps. We can't go on like this. We have solved the problem for next year, but we have not solved the strategic sectoral problem for the whole decade. We can't go on like this. I agree with all my colleagues who have already raised this issue before me. Can I have some more time, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U574	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U575	Another important area is internal security. The Ministry of the Interior's budget is very tense and it is not surprising that the Ministry of the Interior is unable to carry out its defence duties. In fact, in four years, the Ministry of the Interior would need about 80 million, or about 20 million per year, to complete the internal defence reserve, to carry out all the basic tasks of border guards, as well as police tasks that are wider than normal police activities. But, of course, if their budget is so tense, they have no chance of carrying out these tasks. Of course, both the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior and their agencies do not matter whether this money comes from tax revenue, from a loan or from where it comes from. They just need it. We have lived in almost permanenced crisis throughout our parliamentary term. The health crisis started as early as 2020. This led to an economic crisis. We have now overcome the economic crisis, but the energy crisis has come and there has been a serious security crisis. Russia is bringing troops to the Ukrainian border for the second time this year. This composite crisis is not over yet, it is still going on and we should prepare for it much more seriously. I also cannot tell you which direction it will turn next year or already at the end of this year if we consider what is happening at the borders of Russia and Ukraine and what is basically happening in Taiwan. All these things are connected. We can't rely on that right now, we can't think that we're going back to normal. We're not going back to normal. The crisis has a tendency to escalate and reach some decisive point. I would like to take advantage of the closing time to answer the question of a good colleague, Mrs Everaus. I don't have a good plan on how to make more money, but I can tell you a plan on how not to cut the money. I'll give you an example of the cement industry. The cement industry closed because it was no longer able to buy CO2 quotas. The entire industry, which gave more than 2% of our GDP, with a turnover of more than 2% of our GDP, simply ceased to exist, which means that this area no longer exists. We can't build without cement. So where's the cement coming from? Belarus or China or somewhere else. Let's not do things like this anymore, we're just taking some kind of industry to a point where he's going to cease to exist without having anything to put in place. Thank you! That's all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U576	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U577	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good Riigikogu! I will not repeat what has been said here about defence spending, education and science. These last areas of education and science are my pains. I've spoken about them here many times and spoken, and I'm not going to repeat myself. I'm just gonna say one thing. This thing is so disgusting, I feel sick and embarrassed to talk to myself. We are talking about the same nearly 200 million that have already been discussed here. This money has been set aside illegally; it was not reflected in the income documents. This money was meant for an extraordinary pension rise. It was intended to be in the past and should have existed as early as 1 January next year. But it's postponed for a year. In fact, not until 1 April, as extraordinary pension increases have so far taken place, but until 1 January. And the reason seems to be completely transparent: it wants to buy a large part of the electorate. It's bad, it's really bad, when there's corruption in some kind of job, it's bad when a minister takes a coffee machine home. But these are such petty things compared to what our government is now planning and carrying out in our co-participation. If you can see from the television cameras I'm blushing now, I'm embarrassed and very disgusting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U578	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U579	[[Remote connection]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I am very sad because funding for higher education in this budget did not reach the level that it could be. But I understand very well the reasoning given by both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Education and Research that this year's extra money, which we were asking for and which we were talking about in the Support Group, could not be found because there was a movement to 1% in research funding, which will also allow for the reform of doctoral students, which will allow doctoral students to become junior researchers from next year and pay them, for example, a salary which is already around 1600 in the medium pay next year. But this certainly brings out the need for funding for this same higher education even more clearly, because it is absolutely clear that if the doctoral student starts to receive 1600 and his supervisor gets the right bit more at the university, then this is certainly not a normal situation. What kind of reform of higher education could be in terms of funding will depend very much on the future of the Estonian state. I am pleased that on 9 December we have OTRK in the Riigikogu on this subject. Similarly, there is concern about the teacher's offspring. I agree with all the speakers who today called for more money for education, whether to solve teachers' pay and follow-up [problem] or also more funding for higher education. But it is quite clear that the Estonian state does not have this money anywhere. We are not getting away with any major reforms that need to be made both within the school network and at all in rethinking the foundations for funding higher education. To this end, I ask for the involvement and support of all people, including those from opposition parties. It is a pleasure that this support group has been set up and that we will get there. Indeed, I very much agree with the idea of my party partner, Professor Everaus, that more money must be created, we must invest. That is why I am also pleased about this, and I congratulate the state budget for next year on the fact that we are starting with improving the funding of science, where greater investment could come from, where, through wisdom, we will increase the added value that we can redistribute. Therefore, I think it is a matter of time before we also find this money for teachers' salaries and other investments in education and science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U580	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U581	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, first of all, it is appropriate to thank all economic operators and taxpayers from this platform for having something to redistribute. Perhaps all budget debates could really focus much more on income mathematics, because it seems to me that it is often assumed that our good entrepreneurs, too in this Chamber and in the ministries, are still those who are anxious to get something back from the state. It's like an obvious need. In fact, when dealing with businesses, it always sounds like they want to cope on their own. They want to bet themselves, they don't want them to ask someone for some kind of support so they can be and do their job. Exactly the same, I believe, is actually with all the good Estonian people, those who work and pay taxes. They want to get paid for the work they do in any sector and manage their lives. No one ever has an interest in coming to the state to ask, I dare say, alms to cope with my life and family. I would also like to wish that much more is said about the Estonian life line when drawing up the state budget. The Estonian life line is actually a regional balance. It is not possible to talk about Estonia as a developing country, a nation state in the context of two centres, two centres of attraction, and the rest is like a centre of thrust. After all, the National Audit Office has brought this problem out in one way or another in its reports and audits on a number of occasions, but unfortunately it tends to remain a voice that sounds to deaf ears. Even if we do not directly share the money of our country's taxpayer, which is generated with the support of our people and businesses, when we are talking about possible European development support, even then we say that this train is already gone. What train has gone? Was the train called Estonia or what we are talking about? These questions we should answer much more. When it comes to the same work, the work that brings added value, and more and more of this added value, there are also jobs that are needed to raise our children, to keep them and to care for our elderly. Unfortunately, it has sounded from this speech chair today that state bread is as thin as it is, but tall. It seems to me that we are moving very quickly to this period when people can no longer afford this thin state bar. There have been very, very many assurances about this. The same health crisis has highlighted precisely the issue of the pay of the public sector. These same kindergarten teachers, cultural workers, welfare staff, medical people, people in the field of internal security, they actually run our country, our people. If they have to do so with a monthly salary of nearly EUR 1000, then the question arises: maybe we have gone too far with excessive concreteisation and [too] with a small contribution to our people. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U582	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U583	I think this is a serious place for all of us to think. I know that budget analysts see this as a very high cost, a fixed cost, just as in the payment of pensions, which must also be carried along. It is always necessary to assess the ability we can generate money to keep these promises. But I think the worst that can happen is that at some point we need to talk seriously about our children and our elderly being cared for by a foreign labour force. Is this the direction, if we have already established rules there, that they should be paid more than our own people? I think this issue of labour poverty is pervasive and permanenceable. This is precisely the subject of such a regional line of life, because if we cannot take a step in the public sector here too, we will soon find a more sparsely populated rural area, where there are no more children or if there are, only during the summer months, squeaking somewhere on the meadow. This certainly is not in my view, and I think it is also in the view of the Fatherland, the Estonia that we would like to build in the perspective of the future. So there are many points of thought, from national defence and self-being to our person, who would like to be inside the big one. There's a lot of room between here and there. I would like to thank all the Members of Parliament who have taken this role to come and talk about our own state budget, these directions and concerns. This is one way to make the budget more understandable and transparent for the taxpayers of the Estonian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U584	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U585	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Looking at this budget, perhaps the question arises as to whether they do not want to understand, understand or recommend understanding. Let's look at entrepreneurship. During last year's additional budget [making], we reduced the fee for waterways to zero. From April this year until the end of April next year, it has been reduced by 50%, which has brought trade flows to Estonian ports. While the number of ships docking in the rest of the ports has decreased, it has increased in Estonia. According to the calculations, EUR 35 million have come with more money. The state would need to invest 16 million, or half of the money would come. Then somehow there's a situation where somebody thinks we're discussing how we're discussing it, but let's not do 50% of the soda, let's leave 25%, that's very good. But in the meantime, next to the neighbors, they have also made a fee for the waterways. This means that at some point those ships that have been brought back to Estonian ports will leave here and go to their neighbours, these cash flows will not come to Estonia and many jobs may disappear because there is simply no job. In today's crisis situation, it is very important to support entrepreneurship and, on the other hand, entrepreneurship support will also benefit the state budget. Another flagship of our Baltic Sea, passenger ships. We were able to support passenger shipping during the crisis period, and now from next year this [support] will no longer be like the crisis is over with 31 December. Andres, the previous speaker, was just talking about health and safety. We have not been able to manage the current crisis sensibly and make decisions at the right time. The real issue today is not for patients with corona, but for example cancer patients who die considerably more and who are already hundreds, if not thousands, in the order of operation according to the latest media news. Yeah, maybe a person who needs a hip replacement won't die if that time increases by a month, two or three. But the cancer patient has a question of whether or not he gets surgery, often in days and weeks, but not in months and years. If we take it this way that we lose our hands and not just one or two or three, then this is where I think both the Minister of Social Affairs and the entire Government should look in the mirror and find a solution and a quick solution. It can't be that if there's 500 sick suddenly developed into a hospital, the entire hospital network is collapsing, we can't find a solution, and we're dripping behind it for two or three months. When the Riigikogu has proposed, it is said at first that it is not necessary, and in three months' time this decision will be made. But by then, many trains have gone so far that they won't even see the taillights. We are talking about coping with people during the crisis. It is incomprehensible that next year, according to the forecast of the Ministry of Finance, VAT on electricity, gas and the heating economy and the sale of CO2 quotas... Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U586	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U587	... a total of 270 million extra money. To date, there is no law for even low-income people to be able to pay support from local authorities. Today I'm reading the news again, for the third week in a row, how the government has decided that 38 million will be distributed. Who's lying to who now? In the Riigikogu, this law has not passed the third reading. At second reading, a proposed amendment to another law has only been grafted out so that local authorities can use this money to support families. I don't know how many people in this room have gas heating at home and who have received the October bill. Yes, with the salary of a member of the Riigikogu, we can pay it. But with the average salary, paying half a salary for the bare heat would take half a salary from someone in the family. And then they say we compensate, we take 270 million out of one pocket, and we give $38 million in the other hand. We have offered that a quick decision, a reduction in VAT from 20% to 9%, would solve many problems for both gas, electricity and the heating economy. Network fee. Renewable energy, why would people pay for renewable energy when we get additional revenues from the sale of CO2 quotas? We will try to survive this winter together so that our people do not become debtors because they cannot pay these bills. It's only November today, I haven't had the right cold yet, some days it's come to five or six degrees once. But if it's cold outside, what's with the bills? We're talking about pensions. As if the news were that the second pillar of pension has become voluntary and that hundreds of millions of additional funds have been received into the budget. For some reason, the Riigikogu is now trying to prepare for elections and it is only in 2023 that emergency pension increases or average pension income tax exemptions are being made. Of course, I must thank the Reform Party for putting this tax exemption on the table, because for two years during the previous coalition, I was one of those who cut off every budget so that it should be done, but today and then the Minister for Social Affairs said that this is not possible, well it is not possible. I should think about it. Finally, education. It's like it's time to do it in education. Because 5 million in corruption are allocated to the tests, excuses are made. But the lack of money in education and the suffering of our children is vital. This budget has not been made for some reason today, looking at the people of Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U588	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U589	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll start with a well-known folk story, but repeating is the mother of wisdom. They drive a goose and a pig on an ice bank. The ice bank is closing in on the waterfall, and the goose says, "Let's get to the right, get to the shore, or we're going down the waterfall." But the pig says, "Just! " Goose repeats a few more times: " Let's go ashore. " The pig says: " Just! " Well, the goose flies and flies to the shore, but the pig goes down the waterfall and dies. That is the budget and the government that we are seeing now is precisely such a bummer. I can't believe that nothing has been learned and nothing has been forgotten, as was said about the Bourbons since the French Revolution. What, then, has not been learned? It has not been learned that life is dynamic and that we no longer live after the Cold War, but that we live after the Cold War. The world has changed so much, the challenges have changed, the economic circumstances have changed. The world is not unipolar, the world is multipolar. The money's being printed, the money's losing value. Human masses, hundreds of millions of people are on the move in the world, creating new challenges, requiring new costs from the state. Nothing has been learned from this. But it has never been forgotten that, in the 1990s, a balanced budget postulate was set up: there can be no more spending than has been earned. Yes, he can. Everyone spends more than they earn because the money is printed in huge amounts. Before this money loses its value, it has to be used and converted into something that is a primary task for the government, either to raise people's well-being or to secure national security. We don't do one thing or another. We have a budget put together by officials, which is a budget for defamation. From the previous government, we remember very well how the specialists of the Ministry of Finance came to us numbly to convince us that excise duty must not be lowered, because then the state budget is completely unbalanced and the disaster is ahead. We dropped the excise, and the disaster didn't come. However, refueling came back to Estonia, disappeared in the south direction of the poerall and the tourists came back until the corona made its corrections. It is not possible to achieve anything with the crippling budget, but it is a crippling budget, and it is just embarrassing to look at such a budget. This budget, of course, is, as is said in Russian, the pokazukha budget, i.e. such a disfigurement budget. I am reminded here of the great Prince of Moscow, Ivan Kalita, from the beginning of the 14th century. 1325, if I remember correctly as a historian, he became the Grand Duke of Moscow, who used to drive to the Kremlin and drive out of the Kremlin to the people by throwing change and became his nickname Ivan Kalita, or Wallet. So, what was it really? In fact, he crumpled the same people in Moscow, extorting them to satisfy the needs and personal needs of the country in an exuberant manner. We see exactly the same in this country. We know very well that the Reform Party has now come up with a proposal to raise the salary of members of the Riigikogu. People, motherfucker, chew the lawn, but we have to raise the Riigikogu's salary because the cost of living, you see, gets out of the way. Whether the people come back with their incomes, that's another issue. It doesn't concern us that much, here we make eye changes. Here we are talking about raising the wages of the rescuers, raising so much that the rescuers are howling with frustration. The members of the Salvation Union are calling, complaining, asking if you can't do anything in the state budget process to really raise our salaries and not have to keep two or three jobs in order to feed and manage the family on your own and, decently, to manage your life according to some kind of middle class standard. No, we throw like Ivan Kalita...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U590	Would you like more time? Mr. Helme, would you like some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U591	Yeah, thanks, I'd like some extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U592	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U593	[[Remote connection]] ...the roaches and the roubles, speaking of Russian money. Then they come and say there's no money to take. I would say that Aivar Kokk gave excellent examples of how money has come into this government's budget in hundreds of millions thanks to the actions of the previous government. Hundreds of millions! You don't know what to do with that money. Well, here's the example of the test pie of the Ministry of Education, the cold barbecue, its incompetence, and we'll get back to that pig and goose story again, "Just!" I asked the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs: does it clearly appear in the budget that funds have been allocated to the budget to solve COVID's problems, to ensure continuity in hospitals, to increase the capacity of hospitals? He couldn't say it, he said it should be known to the Minister of Health and Labour. Well, we'll ask him, but I can tell you I'm not meant to. Not foreseen. And if it is, it's meant to be that it's essentially wasted money. Secondly, the security situation in Leo Kunna has changed so sharply, and then there will be a picky manor lady who says in briefings, but why didn't you build the border? But in our time, as a result of my efforts, the border began to be built. They're starting to build! 25 million for the first 23,... I don't remember exactly Now they're talking about how the barbed wire rolls go to the border. It can be built out, with the barbed wire we have now, about 30 kilometers. But just the southeast border, not to mention the southern border with Latvia, we have almost 130 kilometres. Not to mention the lake line, where we have no plan to ensure security there, and not to mention the southern part of the Narva River where you can jump with a crutch. There is, of course, a camera watch. What am I saying? What I want to say, my friends, is that with this budget, with this shitty, with this kind of shitty and visionless budget, we can still get to where Andrus Ansip promised to take us and where we've come from, but from where we're going to fall down from: the five poorest countries in Europe. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U594	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U595	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President of the sitting. Just in case, maybe I'll get carried away, maybe three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U596	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U597	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, There has been a great deal of talk here today about the important things that are in this budget, and also about those that are not in this budget. I'm committed to four points. Not only am I talking, but my proposals have been on the table of the Committee on Economic Affairs and they have all been voted down. So it's not just talk. I'll start with farmers. You see, for some reason, the fact is that you still have to go out here in front of the Riigikogu, make a demonstration and come to Toompea to complain about your concerns, and only then will the government or any party to the coalition understand that this is serious. I don't think there's a surprise for us, we know exactly what kind of crop farmers got this year. The harvest numbers were still very, very poor. I'm afraid we'll see this result next year when farmers have to start buying inputs and the banks are pulling off whatever taps they want. So this year's additional support for farmers is a direct grant or crisis aid, as the European Union promises to pay. Such an amendment was also proposed by the Social Democrats: 15 million [EUR] additional agricultural support. It should definitely be in the budget to reduce the burden and risk for farmers. However, as we know and have repeatedly said, all these amendments have unfortunately been voted down. The following two amendments and topics, I must say with recognition, come from the same area as I am talking about now, South Estonia, in the area of Rõuge. They're about the dislocation program. We know how much families are thinking today that it is because of the corona that we should move to the country, but if there is no water and sewerage, no electricity and no roads, then it is imperative to increase such a program today. The 2.5 million that our amendment would have to put into this programme would be very helpful to many families who are changing their way of life and want to move to the country. This is a very clear regional political dimension and should certainly be reflected in the budget. I dare say that I have perhaps visited most of my homes as a member of the Riigikogu, precisely in terms of fire safety. There's a lot of them... here at Rõuge... Believe me, friends, the smoke detector we're downloading during this home visit, or the whining sensor this day, unfortunately, doesn't save many of those whose fireplaces are in such a state as to give up. After all, a few years ago, such a fine program, led by Andres Anvelt, was created and urgently needed money. This is precisely so that those who may not themselves have the will and the opportunity to repair their fireplaces would have the support of the state and local governments. It's inevitable. And a fourth. I was listening, and no one said anything, but if anyone said anything, I'm sorry. This is our own house. This poor house, which are friends of our Riigikogu in terms of technical, repair and employees' salaries, is no joke. It is no wonder that we have this competence because we pay our officials so little wages, move away to the government's house, and we no longer have it. If we are also talking about the cut, the reduction of the Centre for Monitoring Development [the money], if they can only take a theme of one and a half at the table today, what measure of Parliament will we issue? Please, let's pull ourselves together between second and third readings and put money in our house. I am not talking about the remuneration of members of the Riigikogu or our expenses or anything like that. The Group of the Social Democratic Party even proposed to reduce the cost benefits and channel this money to the Centre for Monitoring Development, which is in need of cutbacks. Well, we know that this amendment did not work out, but the good coalition took it together, and before the third reading, the money was found there, as money was found for many other subjects that the opposition brought to the table. At second reading, they were voted down. Like Erki Savisaar said, you did an idea pick. Then pick up a very important part of these ideas from here and we will apply them. So force-kick us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U598	I don't see any more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. Now we are going to speedily examine the amendments. The first amendment, proposed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has been fully taken into account. The second amendment, tabled by the Isamaa Group, has been rejected by the commission. The third amendment, tabled by the Isamaa Group, has been rejected by the commission. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U599	I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U600	Got it. Mr Riigikogu, I will put to the vote before you the third amendment tabled by the Isamaa Group. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U601	The proposal was supported by 35, with 56 against. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 4, tabled by the Isamaa Group. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U602	Thank you. On behalf of the Isamaa Group, I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U603	Okay, I got it. Do we agree that we are going to the vote now, because there was just a vote? No objections. I shall vote on the fourth amendment tabled by the Isamaa Group. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U604	Thirty-five, against 57. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 5, tabled by Ms Sikkut. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U605	I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U606	Okay. Sorry, there is also Mr Helme's speech, but we cannot do that now. It is not possible, unfortunately, to hear you out, because we are already negotiating, we are looking at the amendments. But, Indrek Saar, I understand that... Okay. Mr. Ratas has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U607	Thank you. But maybe it's worth asking. If Mart Helme wants to say something, we're at a good pace right now, there's time, why not? Let's hear what he has to say.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U608	But it looks like the problem's over. Okay. No, it doesn't. Mart Helme, however, has a procedural question. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U609	[[Remote connection]] The question is that it was an accident that I wanted to take the floor. Actually, I don't want to. I apologize to everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U610	Okay, I got it. Mr Saarel wanted to vote on this amendment. Correct. Okay. I shall put the fifth amendment to the vote, tabled by Mrs Sikkut. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U611	23 to 57. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 6, tabled by Ms Saar and Ms Sikkut. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U612	I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U613	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the sixth amendment tabled by Indrek Saar and Riina Sikkut. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U614	Thirty-two, against 56. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 7, tabled by Ms Saar... Sorry, Riina Sikkut and Indrek Saar. I wanted to pick up the pace a little bit, but it didn't work. Riina Sikkut and Indrek Saar. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U615	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Just so you don't push your vocal apparatus, let's slow down a little bit. I would then propose that we please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U616	I'd love to. I shall put to the vote the seventh amendment tabled by Mrs Sikkut and Mr Saar. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U617	Thirty-seven to 57. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 8, tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U618	[[Remote connection]] ... vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U619	I understand Rene Chef said you wanted a vote. Correct?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U620	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U621	Okay, I got it. I am voting on the eighth amendment, tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U622	Twenty-one to 64. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 9, tabled by the Isamaa Group. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U623	Thank you. On behalf of the Isamaa Group, I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U624	I shall vote on the ninth amendment tabled by the Group of the Fatherland. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U625	For 33, against 57. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 10, tabled by the Isamaa Group. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U626	Thank you. I ask the members of the Riigikogu to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U627	I shall vote on the tenth amendment tabled by the Isamaa Group. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U628	Thirty-five to 58. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 11, tabled by the Isamaa Group. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Mr. Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U629	Thank you. On behalf of the Isamaa Group, I would also like to ask for this amendment to be voted and supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U630	I am voting on Amendment 11, tabled by the Isamaa Group. The lead committee has not taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U631	Thirty-six to 58. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 12, tabled by the Isamaa Group. Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U632	Thank you. I ask for this amendment to be voted on and supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U633	I am voting on Amendment 12, tabled by the Isamaa Group. The lead committee has not taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U634	Thirty-five to 58. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 13 tabled by the Isamaa Group. Mr. Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U635	Thank you. On behalf of the Isamaa Group, I would also like to ask for this amendment to be voted and supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U636	I shall put to the vote Amendment 13, tabled by the Isamaa Group. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U637	Thirty-five to 58. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 14, tabled by Mr Ossinovski, Mr Juske, Mr Odines, Mr Kütt and Ms Sikkut. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U638	I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U639	I shall put the 14th amendment to the vote. The Governing Commission has disregarded this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U640	For 33, against 58. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 15, tabled by Mr Kütt, Mr Kaljulaid and Ms Sikkut. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U641	Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U642	I shall put the 15th amendment to the vote. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U643	Thirty-two, against 57. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 16, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U644	I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U645	I shall put the 16th amendment to the vote. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U646	For 33, against 57. The proposal was not supported. Seventeenth... I'm sorry! In favour of 35... my outrage... against 57. Amendment 17, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U647	I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U648	I shall put the 17th amendment to the vote. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U649	Thirty-seven to 56. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 18, tabled by Mr Padar, Mr Läänemets, Mr Odines, Mr Kütt, Mr Kaljulaid, Ms Sikkut and Mr Kalvi Kõrva. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U650	I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U651	I shall put to the vote the 18th amendment, which has been rejected by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U652	Thirty-seven to 57. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 19, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U653	I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U654	I shall put to the vote Amendment 19. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U655	Thirty-seven to 57. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 20 has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U656	[[Remote connection]] I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U657	I shall put the 20th amendment to the vote. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U658	29 to 56. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 21, tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U659	[[Remote connection]] ... vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U660	Okay, I got it. I am voting on Amendment 21; the commission has not taken account of it. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U661	Thirty-seven to 56. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 22, tabled by the Isamaa Group. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U662	I would like to ask the Committee on Monetary Affairs to vote on this unsupported amendment and now to support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U663	I shall put to the vote the 22nd amendment, which has been rejected by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U664	Thirty-seven to 58. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 23, tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U665	[[Remote connection]] ... vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U666	I shall put the 23rd amendment to the vote. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U667	Thirty-six to 58. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 24, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U668	I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U669	I shall put the 24th amendment to the vote. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U670	Thirty-seven to 56. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 25 tabled by Mr Kaljulaid and Mr Saar. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U671	I would also like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U672	I shall put to the vote the 25th amendment, which has been rejected by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U673	Thirty-six to 58. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 26, tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Rene Chef, please! Yes, Mr. Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U674	[[Remote connection]] Yeah! Please, this amendment...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U675	I understand you'd like to vote. I shall put the 26th amendment to the vote. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U676	Thirty-six to 57. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 27, tabled by the Isamaa Group. Mr. Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U677	Thank you. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on and, of course, to be supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U678	I shall put the 27th amendment to the vote. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U679	Thirty-six to 58. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 28, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U680	I would certainly ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U681	I shall put the 28th amendment to the vote. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U682	Thirty-six to 58. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 29, tabled by Mr Saar and Mr Odines. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U683	I would like to insist on voting on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U684	I shall put the 29th amendment to the vote. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U685	Thirty-seven to 58. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 30, tabled by Mr Padar, Mr Läänemets and Mr Kalvi Kõrgu. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U686	I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U687	I shall put the 30th amendment to the vote. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U688	Thirty-seven to 58. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 31, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Governing Commission has taken full account of this. Mr. Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U689	I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U690	I shall put to the vote the 31st amendment, which has been fully taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U691	by 74 votes to 6, with 3 abstentions. The proposal was supported. Amendment 32, tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U692	[[Remote connection]] I would like to ask you to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U693	Thank you. I shall put the 32nd amendment to the vote. The commission didn't take it into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U694	Thirty-four to 57. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 33, tabled by the Isamaa Group. Mr. Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U695	Thank you. I would also like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U696	I shall put the 33rd amendment to the vote. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U697	Thirty-six to 57. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 34, tabled by Mr Padar, Mr Läänemets, Mr Odines, Ms Sikkut and Mr Kalvi Kõrva. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U698	I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U699	I shall put the 34th amendment to the vote. The commission didn't take it into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U700	Thirty-four to 57. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 35, tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U701	[[Remote connection]] Please put this amendment to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U702	I shall put the 35th amendment to the vote. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U703	Thirty-five to 56. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 36, tabled by the Isamaa Group. Mr. Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U704	Thank you. I ask for this amendment to be voted on and for the last opportunity to support the amendment of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U705	I shall put the 36th amendment to the vote. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U706	Thirty-seven to 58. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 37, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U707	I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U708	I shall put to the vote the 37th amendment, which has been rejected by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U709	Thirty-seven to 57. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 38 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U710	I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U711	I shall put the 38th amendment to the vote. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U712	Thirty-seven to 58. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 39, tabled by Mr Padar, Mr Läänemets, Mr Odines, Mr Kütt, Ms Sikkut and Mr Kalvi Kõrva. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U713	I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U714	I shall put the 39th amendment to the vote. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U715	Thirty-seven to 57. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 40, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U716	I would also like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U717	I shall put the 40th amendment to the vote. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U718	Thirty-seven to 58. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 41, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U719	[[Remote connection]] I would like to ask for the amendment by which we will give a small allocation of money to the singing stage of Võru to vote and, of course, support.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U720	I shall put the 41st amendment to the vote. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U721	Thirty-seven to 55. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 42, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U722	I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U723	I shall put the 42nd amendment to the vote. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U724	Thirty-seven to 58. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 43, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U725	I would certainly ask for this amendment to be voted on and thus to support the rise in the pay of social workers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U726	I shall put the 43rd amendment to the vote. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U727	Thirty-seven to 56. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 44, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U728	I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U729	I shall put the 44th amendment to the vote. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U730	Thirty-six to 58. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 45, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U731	I ask for this amendment to be voted on and therefore to support the praiseworthy work of the Estonian Cancer Association.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U732	I shall put to the vote the 45th amendment, which has been rejected by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. Mr. Metsoya, do you have a procedure? Okay, then I won't stop voting.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U733	Thirty-seven to 57. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 46, tabled by Ms Sikkut. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U734	Thank you. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on. I would point out that this is the last opportunity to support even one amendment from the opposition.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U735	Indeed, this is the last amendment we will be voting on. I shall put the 46th amendment to the vote. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U736	29 to 58. The proposal was not supported. Okay. Ladies and gentlemen, We have now examined all the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 464. However, we have received from the Isamaa Group, as well as from the Social Democrats, a proposal to interrupt the second reading of the 464 SE, and we also need to vote it through. Do you agree that we will vote on it immediately without a watch? No objections. I am voting on the proposal of the Isamaa Group and on the proposal of the Social Democratic Party Group to interrupt the second reading of the draft state budget law of 2022 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U737	Thirty-seven to 58. The proposal was not supported. Ladies and gentlemen, We have completed the second reading of the state budget for next year, but we need to set a deadline for the submission of amendments and I will set it at 14:00 on 22 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U738	Our 14th item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Maritime Safety initiated by the Government of the Republic. I hope that we also have an economic and infrastructure minister in Taavi Aa somewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U739	[[Remote connection]] Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I have an obligation to report to you a draft law amending the Law on maritime safety transposing into Estonian law a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the recognition of professional qualifications in inland navigation and repealing directives previously regulating the same area. The purpose of the Act is to facilitate... To this end, the professional qualifications requirements for inland navigation and the recognition of evidence of formal qualifications in the European Union... The directive is aimed in particular at those Member States of the European Union in whose territory there are many navigable inland waterways and... Inland waters connected to a Member State of the European Union and these inland waterways shall be used..... Estonia is able to derogate from the application of the Directive as a result of the lack of inland waterways and cross-border transport of passengers and goods in the Community with other Member States...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U740	Javier! We need to abort, we are technically not getting through [the sound]. The procedure is likely to show that it is hacking and that we are not getting [the sound] right now. Here's what we're gonna do: I'm gonna ask the Minister to restore his computer and start over. Let's do another test. Good Helir-Valdor Seeder, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U741	Thank you. In order to rationally use the time as long as the Minister is re-starting and trying to get in touch again, I have such a procedural point and a question. You see, the minister responsible for the field is not able to get in touch with the e-governance. But could it not have happened, Mr President, so that, in the debate on the previous point, when we voted on the amendments, the information did not get to everyone? I saw that the right side of the hall voted in favour of all the amendments somehow very suspiciously. Maybe they didn't quite understand what they were voting for. Then we should start again, not with this point, but with the previous point.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U742	We have not received any protests so that they could not vote. Of course, no one understood, there's no guarantee of that. But, by the way, another minister is responsible for IT right there in the Ministry. Let's try to contact Taavi Asa again.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U743	[[Remote connection]] Okay. I hope you can hear me now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U744	Yeah, I can hear it now. Let's hope it doesn't. I'm asking you to start over.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U745	[[Remote connection]] From the very beginning? I will introduce the draft law amending the Law on maritime safety, which transposes into Estonian law a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the recognition of professional qualifications in inland navigation and repeals directives previously regulating the same field. The purpose of the Act is to facilitate the movement of persons working in the inland navigation sector from across the European Union. To this end, the training and professional qualifications requirements for crew members working on inland waterway vessels and the recognition of evidence of formal qualifications in the Member States of the European Union shall be harmonised. In Estonia, the Directive will only be transposed to the extent necessary to ensure compliance with the recognition of the certificate of qualification and the service record book, the recognition of the certificates in force and the registration and suspension of the voyages carried out, in accordance with the provisions transposing the Directive. The directive is aimed in particular at those Member States of the European Union in whose territory there are many inland waterways to be navigable and which have an inland waterway link with another Member State of the European Union, and these inland waterways are used for the transport of goods and passengers. Estonia is able to derogate from the implementation of the Directive as a result of the lack of navigational inland waterways and cross-border transport of passengers and goods within the Community of another Member State. As a result, Estonia can continue to issue certificates of competency in accordance with the national regulations previously in force. The Maritime Safety Act is supplemented by a new section regulating the validity of a certificate of formal qualifications and service record books issued abroad by a ship's inland waterway crew member and the application for suspension of a certificate of formal qualifications. The Directive does not apply to persons operating a ship for sport or leisure activities, operating on mobile floating vessels, warships, police authorities or other vessels engaged in public administration tasks. Similarly, the Directive does not apply to persons operating ships on inland waterways of a Member State which are not connected to the navigable waterway network of another Member State and who only, to a certain extent, carry out ship-to-ship voyages where the distance from the point of departure is in no case more than 10 kilometres or operate the ship only on a seasonal basis for up to six months per year. The law amending the Maritime Safety Act is planned to enter into force on 17 January 2022, which is also the deadline for the entry into force of Directive 2017/2397. I ask you to support the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U746	Thank you. There are also questions for the Minister. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U747	[[Remote connection]] Good manager and good minister! There was a joke once that the Ministry of the Sea should be in Czechoslovakia. After reading this directive, explain to me why we have to adopt it. Should Czechoslovakia, for example, adopt a maritime directive of some kind? After all, this concerns those countries where there is a connection between the waterways with other European Union countries and so on. Why do we have to accept it if it doesn't really concern us?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U748	[[Remote connection]] There are other kinds of takeovers that do not touch us very much. However, since there is a free movement of labour in the European Union, we cannot exclude that a sailor who holds the relevant qualifications will want to come to Estonia, for example, to work in the Emajõgi River in another EU Member State or in a third country that is recognised in the same way. In order for it to be able to do its job here, as European law provides, transposition of this directive is necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U749	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U750	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, We are again taking over the European Union directive here. All I think is that you're coming here with your new directives. But I have a question for you. What is your personal opinion, whether we need to transpose all the directives of the European Union that are coming, or whether there are things that we should not transpose? If you say there are these things, tell us what these directives are, what we should not adopt.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U751	Thank you. As I said in the report, we are taking over this directive on a minimum scale. Certainly, the important thing is that these directives are always bilateral. In the same way, they influence how European Union companies or citizens of European Union countries can deliver in Estonia, but on the other hand it also gives Estonian companies and Estonian citizens the opportunity to deliver in the European Union. So you always have to look at this bilateral relationship. If there are such directives which are difficult to apply in Estonia or which have little to do with Estonia, then it is actually the case that we are taking over these directives on a minimal scale.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U752	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U753	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I would remind you that by creating a new Transport Board, we legalized this structure in the Riigikogu according to the explanatory memorandum, say, structure. Maritime organisations were assured that all valuable professionals would continue to work in the new maritime and maritime services. However, according to our data, a different governance structure and division of departments were introduced. Who and when made such a decision, and why was it presented to the Riigikogu at that time in such a way that maritime organisations were misled and the public was also misled?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U754	Thank you. Indeed, in the Transport Department, the new manager has made organisational changes, but certainly these changes will be made in such a way that no area, maritime, road or aviation, is affected. I think every organisation needs a review, especially a new organisation, when it is created and when there is a new leader. There are certainly places that need to be changed, which need to be improved. But here I assure you that the functioning of the maritime sector will certainly not suffer as a result of these changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U755	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U756	(Late connection) Good manager! This is an extremely interesting document, like the directives at all. In 21 years we now have 16 sailors who have such an Estonian documentary and 52 mechanics. Now we wait here from the Danube sailor or from the Rhine somewhere, as I heard from the Minister. But what would happen if we didn't accept it and if we didn't accept it by 17 January, take it for example on the 19th or not at all? How big is this snout or punishment, what's waiting for us?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U757	Thank you. If, for some reason, countries do not transpose the Directive, this will be followed by infringement proceedings. What is the result of this infringement procedure if one directive or another is not transposed, I certainly cannot tell you here today. But I think once again that such directives are always bilateral, on the one hand we are transposing European law, but on the other hand we are also increasing the rights of our businesses and citizens.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U758	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U759	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, We have our own maritime safety law, which has been passed, if I remember correctly now, in 2003 or 2002, perhaps the 2003 Act came into force. But it doesn't matter, it's 2021, and now we're putting this directive in here, even though we have general requirements for the manning of ships in our law. Now we want to bring in § 212, right, the validity of the evidence of formal qualifications and the service book of the same crew member. It's kind of weird. I do not remember that if we joined the European Union, that we would then have written such clauses in the Treaties, that there would be an infringement procedure, and especially against this background. Do you remember that the clause was in there?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U760	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I am not an expert on European law, and I am not taking any measure here to evaluate the decisions taken at that time, when I join the European Union, but I think that the European Union is a Union formed for the functioning of the free market. I think that Estonia has only had to win from the functioning of the free market, because Estonian companies have been able to move freely on the European Union market, given that before joining the European Union, it was essentially a customs organisation or a customs union, where Estonian companies had to pay customs fees when entering. I think it has certainly benefited Estonia. There are always two sides in life, if there is any benefit, it can be accompanied or, as a rule, there are obligations. Once again, all such directives work bilaterally. Yes, on the one hand, such seafarers of the European Union will have the right to transport in Estonia, but on the other hand, this common European Union rule also gives Estonian seafarers the opportunity to deliver in other countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U761	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U762	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President. Good minister! Well, of course this free market and the European Union and equal opportunities. If we start telling farmers about this, we're gonna get beat up for this. But you said a moment ago that, by taking over European Union law, we are thereby increasing the rights of our citizens. It's such a very fancy line, I don't even know where to stick it. But could you somehow enlighten us in the light of this directive on how we will increase the rights of Estonian citizens?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U763	Thank you. The Estonian seafarers who have a certificate of competence are much easier to transport in those countries of the European Union where there are indeed considerably more inland waterways than in Estonia. This will certainly increase the opportunities for our seafarers and make it easier for them to use these opportunities and their skills in other countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U764	Thank you. No further questions. Thank you very much to the Minister. We can go to the co-report, and Annely Akkermann, member of the Economic Commission for Economic Affairs, is for this. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U765	Good evening, a couple of colleagues in this hall and the rest definitely behind the screens! The draft law amending the Maritime Safety Act was initiated by the Government on 18 October and the Riigikogu took the draft into procedure, giving it a number 470, on 19 October this year. At its meeting on 25 October, the Committee on Economic Affairs briefly discussed the draft and decided to appoint a speaker to represent the commission. The decision was taken in consensus and the decision was taken by Riho Breivel, Jüri Jaanson, Siim Kallas, Mikhail Korb, Kalvi Tõud, Kristen Michal, Sven Sester, Mikhail Stalnukhin and the speaker here. On 8 October, the Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft in depth and in substance. The draft was presented by Taavi Aas, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, and Kadi Saks, Chief Specialist of the Maritime Economy Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, replied to the additional questions. The draft itself was now presented in depth in Taavi Aas. This bill is very short, page one and a half. I will not repeat Tavi Asa here. In the Commission, the speaker asked some questions about evidence of formal qualifications issued, which received an exhaustive reply from Kadi Germany. When reading the draft, it gives rise to some confusion that evidence of formal qualifications issued so far is valid at a certain time, but there are differences during a transitional period of 10 years, and these differences are described in Article 38 of the Directive. The second question arose in relation to the reference. The draft refers to the list of countries published on the European Commission's website. I examined the basis for this list and found that it should be referred to in the draft law. Kadi Saks replied that the list of the European Commission was determined by implementing act, but that it had not yet been issued. Upon entry into force of the Directive, the list and its location will be clear. The new version of the Directive will take effect on 18 January next year, as the Minister has already explained. Two proposals were decided at the meeting. Firstly, to put the draft on the plenary agenda today, 17 November 2021, and secondly, to conclude the first reading. These decisions were taken by consensus. The decision was made by Riho Breivel, Jüri Jaanson, Siim Kallas, Mikhail Korb, Kalvi Tõud, Kristen Michal, Sven Sester, Mikhail Stalnukhin and the speaker here. That's all I got.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U766	There are questions. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U767	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Firstly, I do not understand why your maritime support team is not the chairman, but the vice-chairman. But my second question is that Estonia is also part of the IMO of the International Maritime Organisation. The audit has pointed out that our national maritime organisation and all this is bullshit. There are few officials, and the national vision and strategy are similar. Of course, there are other places like this. Did you also have a broader debate in the Commission and talk about these shortcomings or when they would be resolved? Or did it not come to mind at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U768	Yes, Estonia, of course, is among the IMO Member States. However, these two meetings did not address these broader issues in the Commission. But we are currently in the process of two other draft amendments to the Maritime Safety Act. I think we can talk about the IMO regulations in this Chamber, too, with regard to the "Fit 55" in the maritime sector. Namely, IMO Member States include almost the global shipping sector, and worldwide shipping sector regulations are designed to reduce its carbon emissions. Europe wants to make further regulations with the "Fit 55" in order to move a little faster than the world's maritime industry. But we should really consider whether it makes sense, because moving goods at sea is still the lowest carbon footprint per tonne. Maritime carbon emissions represent only 2.89% of global carbon emissions. So perhaps this is not a place for maritime affairs, especially the European maritime industry, which, in order to reduce the carbon footprint, would make sense to further regulate at a high bureaucratic cost. Thank you, very interesting, close to the heart.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U769	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U770	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, good waitress. Yeah, well, of course, when the "Fit for 55" sounded, it just made me weak from under my feet. But that's a question. Have you discussed in the Commission whether this directive applies, as it were, to us or whether Estonia qualifies according to it in any way? Because I read the explanatory memorandum to this draft and it says that this directive is aimed primarily at those Member States on whose territory there are many inland waterways to be navigable and inland waterways connected with other Member States of the European Union for the transport of goods, etc. In my opinion, Estonia does not have a problem with that. It's like we're not connected in any way and there's not a lot of inland waterways like this. Are we still qualified?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U771	Theoretically, someone from Czechoslovakia, Poland or Germany might want to work on the couple of routes we have here on the inland waterways. Perhaps also sailors with an Estonian inland waterway diploma want to go to the inland waterways of another country to earn bread. Mutual recognition of qualification requirements can then be helpful. It's more like a theoretical possibility, but you never know. Can't say I don't have to, absolutely not.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-17_U772	Thank you. No further questions. We can go to the negotiations. There is no wish to negotiate, I will close the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 470 be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 1 December. Our agenda today is exhausted and the session is closed.
