ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1	Ladies and gentlemen, the intermission is over. It is not often the case that we can have three people's birthdays during one session on two days. If yesterday the birthday children were the chairman of the Finance Commission and Sulev Kannimäe, then today, now at 00.05, when the clock has struck midnight in this town, Dmitri Dmitrijevil is the birthday. Congratulations! [[Let's hear it.]] With this positive note, I am pleased to put to the vote the third amendment tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and has taken full account of it itself. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U2	by 52 votes to 0, with 0 abstentions. The proposal was supported. Let us move on to the fourth amendment, which has also been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and which has also been fully taken into account. I think Henn Põllaas wants to pass on birthday blessings.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U3	[[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U4	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U5	Break's over. We are voting on the fourth amendment tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, which has left... I'm sorry! The Governing Commission has taken full account of this. I therefore put the fourth amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U6	In favour of 51, no objectors or abstentions. The proposal was supported. And unnoticed, we have reached the fifth amendment, which is the last one on this draft. It has been presented by the Committee on Economic Affairs, the lead committee has taken full account of it. Mr. Fieldace, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I ask for this amendment to be voted on, and before that I ask for a ten-minute break on behalf of the Conservative People's Party, on behalf of the Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U8	Let's try to be precise, the party really does not have the authority to ask for anything in this Chamber. Ten minutes, right? Then there's a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U9	The break is over and we now have the opportunity to vote on the fifth amendment tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, which has been fully taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U10	51 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. The proposal was supported. And we can almost finish the second reading, but we have a proposal from the EKRE Group to interrupt the second reading, and we also have a proposal from the middle group to interrupt the second reading. That's the story. And that's what we need to vote through. Mr. Fieldace, you can't!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U11	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. But before this important button push, I would ask for a ten-minute break on behalf of the EKRE Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U12	You don't want to vote? Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U13	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and the Group of the Estonian Centre Party to interrupt the second reading of draft 301. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U14	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if it's from late hours or anything else, but it was in favour of three, 57 against and unbiased 1. The proposal was not supported. Second reading is complete. Congratulations!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U15	Moving forward to agenda item 6: Second reading of the draft law amending the collective agreement and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Siret Kotka, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, will come and introduce us. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U16	Good chairman of the sitting! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Social Affairs Committee dealt with the draft law amending the collective agreement law and other laws between the first reading and the second reading three times: 25 May, 31 May and 3 June. In these three sessions, we examined their opinions and amendments with stakeholders. I will give you a more detailed overview of the opinions of the stakeholders. The representative of the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry stated that the House supports the purpose of the proposed bill, as the law in force is contrary to the Constitution. The representative of the Confederation of Estonian Trade Unions stated that the Union supports the draft because it is designed by agreement between the three parties, the Estonian Employers' Confederation, the Estonian Trade Union Confederation and the Ministry of Social Affairs. The representative of the Estonian Employers' Confederation, like the representative of the Estonian Trade Union Confederation, confirmed that the principle of extending collective agreements has been very much negotiated and supported. The representative of the Estonian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises noted that the proposed EMEA draft law does not support. The Estonian Medical Association supported the draft by proposing one amendment. According to the Union, the majority of persons do not read the explanatory notes to the drafts, so the provisions of the collective agreement law may be misinterpreted and it is not known that there are two negotiations to be held: negotiations on the conclusion of a separate collective agreement and the extension of a separate collective agreement. According to the explanations provided by the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Commission did not change the wording as the practice in the field of health is in place and the text of the law is legally correct. The central organisation of the trade unions of staff, the TALO, submitted its opinion in writing and in principle supported the draft. Three amendments had been tabled to us. The first was presented by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. It aims to remove the representativity rates set out in the draft, as different sectors are of different sizes and for some the degree of representativeness may be too high, for others too low. The extension of the terms of the collective agreement could therefore remain the subject of a collective agreement between workers and employers. The Social Affairs Committee did not support the proposal. The proposal was supported by 2 and 7 members of the Commission opposed. Amendment 2 was tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs. The proposal consists of two proposals. Similar changes will be made at the same time in the Trade Unions Act and in the Workers' Repository Act due to the wording of the Estonian Trade Union Confederation and the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry's recommendation to bring the text of the draft into line with the draft explanatory memorandum. The Social Affairs Committee's proposal was supported by all nine members of the Commission. The third amendment was tabled in the same way by the Committee on Social Affairs. The amendment extends the payment of temporary unemployment benefit and unemployment benefit if the following conditions are met in the month in which the unemployment period ended: the rate of registered unemployment in the previous calendar month was higher than 8,5% and the period of unemployment benefit ends between 1 September 2021 and 28 February 2022. It is necessary to extend the duration of unemployment benefit and unemployment benefit by 60 calendar days if the labour market situation deteriorates, i.e. the registered unemployment rate in Estonia rises by more than 8.5%. An extension of unemployment benefit requires an amendment to the Employment Services and Benefits Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act. The amendment is temporary, as I said before, and is based on the figures for registered unemployment in 2021. If the unemployment rate is to rise by more than 8,5%, depending on the month, the cost of extending the unemployment benefit, together with the social security contribution, may be between EUR 1 and EUR 1,5 million and the cost of unemployment benefit up to EUR 380000 per month. This decision was adopted by consensus on a proposal from the Social Committee. All nine members of the Commission agreed. We also made the following proposals: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda for second reading on 9 June 2021, to propose that the second reading be closed and, when the second reading is closed, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and that the final vote be taken on 16 June inclusive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U17	Good chairman of the committee! I believe that we will also speedily review the issues that the chairman of the committee has with the members of the Riigikogu, and then we can go to the vote on the amendments. Martin Helme begins. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U18	Thank you, Vice President. Mr President of the Commission. I have a two-faced question. Firstly, can you speak a little bit further, which was the main argument made by the EVEA as to why they are not in favour of extending the scope of the collective agreement? The second is the more important question: I would like an even more answer to that. We just heard here that from 1 million to almost 2 million it's an extra cost. Was there any mention at political level that this extra cost would undermine the budgetary balance? The balance of the budget has been badly wrestled here. What is it worth, or what must be cut so that this budget balance is zero overall, so that the additional costs that the unemployment fund incurs are offset?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U19	Thank you for your question. When it comes to why this collective agreement law is before us today, the most important thing here is to point out that the Supreme Court's decision of 15 June 2020 draws attention to the fact that this is not exactly the right situation that we currently have in the law. According to this decision of the Supreme Court, the social partners met with the Ministry of Social Affairs and this draft was born. As far as figures are concerned, these figures provide that unemployment benefit, up to a maximum of EUR 400000 per month, should come from the state reserve, the government reserve of the Republic, and that unemployment benefit, which would amount to between 1 million and 1.5 million per month, should come from the unemployment fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U20	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U21	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I am looking at these amendments here, and this draft, and it seems to me that social democrats have been subjected to some very serious injustice. They have proposed: "The collective agreement may be extended by agreement between the parties in respect of the conditions laid down in subsections 1 and 3 of § 6 (1) of this Act. The scope of the extension shall be determined in a collective agreement. " It has been rejected by the Commission. I now read in this same bill: "The collective agreement may be extended by agreement between the parties in respect of the conditions laid down in subsections 1 and 3 of § 6 (1) of this Act. The scope of the extension shall be determined in a collective agreement. "It's literally the same, literally the same. When it was presented by the Socialists, the Commission brutally rejected it, yet it is in here. Why don't you open up a little bit about what happened?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U22	Thank you for that question. As I have already pointed out in my presentation, in fact, the Socialists' proposal to exclude the rates of representativeness set out in the draft. This was also the reason why the Commission did not support it because these rates have already been approved by the social partners.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U23	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U24	Good manager and waitress! There's a lot of questions, but I'll ask you one thing. This threshold is that if unemployment is 8.5% and higher, it kind of starts. But why 8.5% and higher?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U25	Let's look at the unemployment rate. A few weeks ago, when I looked at it, it was 8.2. If the labour market situation deteriorates and this percentage could already be 8.5, I think it is very right and natural that we meet our people. These are the people who have been unemployed in the previous crisis and who are now running out of this period.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U26	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U27	I realized that the Chamber of Commerce was pretty critical to the trustee in terms of time planning. Could you explain exactly what their position was? I got a little confused about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U28	The Chamber of Commerce and Industry, yes, thought that if there were more than two trustees, it might not actually be good. There are different opinions here for both workers and employers, but at the same time, the general agreement is that there may be two or more.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U29	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U30	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! I read in the explanatory memorandum to the bill that the unemployment benefit was calculated on the basis of the analysis of the Estonian Centre for Policy Studies in Praxis. However, without wanting to question the validity of the analysis itself, it has to be acknowledged that Praxis is not a politically independent body, as its leaders have taken quite expressive positions on various political issues in many parts of the world, as well as this organisation itself. In a sense, this situation could be compared to the fact that the discussion of another bill is based, for example, on analysis for the protection of the family and tradition of the SA. How would you assess this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U31	Thank you. Yeah, Praxis's research is background information. Praxis has pointed out that the monthly cost could be around EUR 6 million. The Ministry of Social Affairs has estimated that the maximum monthly cost is up to 2 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U32	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U33	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good Siret! For some reason, your committee, the Social Committee's current draft, has been accused of using very harsh words. We know that Estonia is a very specific country because we have a large number of people involved in small business, either directly or through their parents or siblings. Small businesses are a very common form. The association of small and medium-sized enterprises accuses the Commission of having drawn up this draft on the basis of formalism towards them, not being taken into account, not being included in these proposals, and this whole issue has only been formally addressed. The same complaint has been made by the Estonian Medical Association in its proposal, where it accuses the Commission of formalism. How do you disprove it, or what do you say to it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U34	Just as the involvement of stakeholders takes place procedurally in every committee, so do we. Everyone has the opportunity to express their opinions. These opinions will be discussed and those that will be approved will also be incorporated into the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U35	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Maybe I'm not looking at the right place, but I have a question about the link between this draft and the general economic situation, the market. Why am I asking that? We came from one crisis, and now we're supposed to be able to enter the next. Has there been any connection or any connection found in the preparation? Labour relations are still one of the instruments with which the State, if necessary, has an impact, depending on the situation. Did this come up in any way, or is it simply an isolated focus on a technical issue, as these paragraphs refer to? I couldn't find a reference anywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U37	Thank you. As I said, this is a very clear measure of people's acceptance that we are extending unemployment benefit and unemployment benefit. This is a temporary measure, which very clearly indicates that it is not permanent, and this temporary measure is currently foreseen from 1 September to 28 February 2022.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U38	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U39	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! You have now listed the time criteria for the temporary measure, but perhaps there are other criteria. Can you tell them that, well, if the unemployment rate rises, unemployment will increase? And how is it possible to temporarily postpone the temporary criterion?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U40	Thank you for your question. I must say that, in this context, it was not dealt with in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U41	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U42	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I am looking here at the fact that the representatives of the EVEA are not at all satisfied with this bill and do not support it, because it hinders their activities. The Ministry of Social Affairs, how to say, unequivocally rejects their claims. Do you still not think that these issues, including the problems of the Small Business Association, should be looked at more seriously, because these things have been discussed for a very long time and their protests have also been long, that is not the issue of today?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U43	Thank you. The Social Affairs Committee will definitely cooperate with the Estonian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and we will always involve them in our committee meetings. As regards the development of the collective agreement law, once again: the basis for its development was established by the Estonian Trade Union Confederation, the Estonian Employers' Confederation and the Ministry of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U44	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U45	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! As you said, the draft is a kind of tripartite compromise agreement between the Estonian Employers' Confederation, the Estonian Trade Union Confederation and the Ministry of Social Affairs. The first two are institutions which are often seen as opposing. The bill was written in the Ministry of Social Affairs. I have this request: could you describe in more detail the views of these three parties during the drafting process? Who made the most compromises, who was more rigid and on what issue? I have another personal humble request: please, can you speak a little slower? I'm a flegmatic person by nature, and I can't follow the urgent call. It's late, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U46	Thank you for that question. I really say that the Social Affairs Committee did not discuss how the Confederation of Estonian Trade Unions and the Confederation of Estonian Employers found a compromise, but rather the compromise that had already come to the meeting of the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U47	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, My first question arose immediately at the beginning of this bill and it concerns information: "The parties to the negotiations shall inform the public, via the national media channel, no later than 30 days before the start of negotiations on the extension of the collective agreement clause... " The question is that "national media channel" is a relatively vague concept. There is a tendency that the credibility and traceability of the media will be reduced all the time. Did you not discuss in the Commission that it might be reasonable to send a letter simply from a purely human or from a courtesy between partners?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U49	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U50	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! This amendment also defines the number of so-called members, 15% or 500 members. However, as we know, the collective agreement extends to all employees, because the prohibition of unequal treatment of employees stems from our various norms and Supreme Court rulings. Here, for example, is the Trade Union Act. Absolutely, this draft does not deal with the fact that the trade union represents all the employees. This is related to the collective labour dispute resolution law. Under this provision, workers are represented in the event of a collective labour dispute by employees and their association or by an authorised person of the Union. It is completely incomprehensible why such numbers are being put in place here right now. This actually limits the rights and obligations of workers as a weaker party.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U52	Thank you for your opinion. You gave your opinion very clearly, I said thank you for that opinion. This is your opinion as a member of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U53	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U54	Thank you. So I'm trying to ask. Every law should make something better for the people of Estonia. I'm sure thousands of people are watching this exciting debate on YouTube this evening. Why don't you come up with the main points of how this bill will improve the lives of the people of Estonia? Let me ask you another question: does this draft make the lives of migrant workers working in Estonia any better?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U55	Thank you. This law has several objectives that Minister Tanel Kiik already introduced to us last time. I think you can look them up in the verbatim. However, in general, in addition to the review of the terms of the collective agreement, the Employment Contracts Act is also amended, which means that in the event of nullity of the termination of an employment relationship, the benefit payable will be increased in a situation where, without a legal basis, the employment relationship with a pregnant worker, the right to maternity leave or the employee's representative has been cancelled. In addition, we have also spoken very clearly here about unemployment benefit and unemployment benefit.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U56	Does Martin Helme have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U57	Yeah, I have a procedural request to the manager to call the performer in order. Questions must still be answered, not interpreted as being opinions that do not have to be answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U58	You, Martin, as you know, have also said here that the questioner will ask and the answer will be answered. That's the way it is. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U59	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I will listen to what you are saying and read this bill, and I fully understand that this bill will help to eliminate competition and put small business at a disadvantage. In my opinion, a number of organisations have also drawn attention to this. I am interested in this: if you have done impact analyses, can you read out all the organisations that were involved and who gave you their expertise and analysis?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U60	Thank you, Mart Helme, member of the Riigikogu. I have already mentioned all these interest groups in my presentation and I have also mentioned the opinions of all the interest groups.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U61	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U62	Good manager! Good Siret! I'm gonna look here and ask if that's true. Here is one table. This concerns very large companies, 12 large companies, such as Enefit Mines in the mining industry, the financial sector with a total of 12667 employees, comes out of two large banks, Swedbank and SEB Pank, and nine large communication companies. But is it like that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U63	Good Peter Ernits! The collective agreement law concerns a large number of companies that have either a trade union or where there are really trustees.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U64	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U65	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Siret! I really am not an expert in labour legislation, and therefore my question may be a little simple or simplified. Who would win this law if this bill became a law, whether it was employees, employers or both? What really gets better with this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U66	Thank you. If we adopt a collective agreement, it is very clear that the conditions of pay and working environment will be agreed between the parties. So I think that this is where employees win in terms of their pay and working environment and their conditions, but also employers, because everyone wants them to have good employees.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U67	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U68	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! Help me out here a little bit. Am I right to understand that, in some area, 15% of people have joined trade unions and there are collective agreements, a couple of large companies, say, a couple of companies with a large number of employees do this contract, but there are smaller companies in the same area, and basically not only wage conditions are agreed for these small companies, but also for example, working conditions, free days and such things, then these small companies are, in fact, essentially excluded from all their employment agreements? That's how I see it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U69	Firstly, it requires that we talk about this 15%, that there must be a union of trade unions or a trade union that brings together members of the same sector of activity, whose members make up 15% of the workers in the industry, and that the other side must still have employers who offer employment to workers in at least 40% of the corresponding sector of activity. So it's still a two-way street.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U70	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U71	Good waitress! It is, in itself, a very fair and right move that, in the case of the right to maternity leave, if a contract of employment or a contract of employment is cancelled, the level of compensation is increased. But it would be good to know if this problem was actually so big that it had to be dealt with separately. Understandably, that's fair, but you also had waitresses who explained these cases. Has it become very common, then, that the bullying of pregnant women, for example, has increased in this way?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U72	I think if it's in this law, it's very clearly a problem in some part of it. Indeed, the benefit rate will be increased from 6 months to 12 months. We meet workers and people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U73	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U74	Thank you very much. Good Siret! My question is a little bit of Leo's question. Leo said he couldn't understand who the law was good for and good for. You said in your reply that it would be beneficial for both workers and employers. At the same time, I rely again on some of the EVEA's complaints. The EVEA claims that this law is not useful at all. Let's say the wording is pretty harsh. He says that this draft, in its proposed form, is unacceptable to small and medium-sized enterprises. This means that small and medium enterprises are not supported by this draft law. The question remains, who will benefit, micro-enterprises or large companies. I understand that this is not so much about micro-enterprises either, that it is only in the interests of large companies. Am I misunderstood?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U75	No, this law is in everyone's best interest. If there are even ten employees in the company, there can be a very clear confidant for workers' rights. Today's law allows it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U76	Thank you. Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U77	Thank you for your presentation and for introducing this law. It is particularly important that the extended collective agreement is complemented by the principle of representativeness, which the Supreme Court also asked about and which is common practice in such cases. This is certainly relatively fair in terms of employers, 40%. It does not have to be one employer, there may also be an employers' association, therefore also a small business association. So, in this sense, there has been a great deal of greetings for entrepreneurs here. All this extension of the collective agreement, which will certainly also make it possible to protect our labour market from the fact that too cheap labour is imported here, is excellent. But the situation of the trustees could, of course, be improved. Did you also mention in the Commission that what the trustees really need is protection from dismissal? Did you discuss this, and do you see that it could ever reach our tables in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U78	Thank you. We did not discuss directly the dismissal of the trustees. Yeah, I didn't, but I think we could definitely discuss it in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U79	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U80	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! After all, this draft amends quite a number of laws and includes the Working Conditions Act for Workers Posted to Estonia. Since this draft contains only references to specific section numbers, perhaps you will explain what is specifically being changed in the working conditions of workers posted to Estonia and what does it entail in essence?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U81	Thank you. At second reading, the Commission did not really address the paragraphs to which you referred.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U82	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please! Tarmo Kruus Mountains aren't. Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U83	I also wanted to talk a little bit about the trustees, because there are problems with the trustees, I know. I would also have liked to see the law paying attention to this. I believe that, as you said now, it is meant to be. I still want to hear from you once more exactly that this is going to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U84	Thank you. If this problem is raised by members of the Riigikogu, the Social Affairs Committee is undoubtedly ready to address this issue. I see that two members of the Riigikogu have already raised it here. So I hope that in the autumn you will come with your specific proposal to the Social Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U85	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U86	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, The first thing that stands out about these documents is that the Estonian Medical Association is very critical of this draft. True, it seems that this criticism focuses rather on formal issues, that the association of doctors was involved too late, that the time given to give an opinion was five days, while the association of doctors is a very powerful organization, 3200 doctors. Secondly, the association of doctors, led by his lawyer, also protests against the lack of understanding of the draft. But it is quite clear that there are some substantive problems behind this. At present, we, or at least I, as the legislator, do not understand what is really behind this. Would it be possible to clarify this a little bit more?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U87	Thank you for that question. According to the Union, the majority of persons do not read the explanatory notes to the drafts, so the provisions of the collective agreement law may be misinterpreted and it is not known that two negotiations must be conducted: there are separate negotiations on the conclusion of a collective agreement and on the extension of a separate collective agreement. That is what the Doctors' Association drew attention to. The Ministry of Social Affairs explained this in the Commission and said that the text of the Act is legally correct and that practice is in place in all respects in the field of health. Therefore, it was not changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U88	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U89	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Last week, the Estonian Seamen's Independent Trade Union announced that they would resign from the union union. There's obviously a misunderstanding, a power struggle, or a ghost knows what. They claim that the Confederation of Trade Unions does not stand up enough for these interests. If you consider this news in the context of this bill, of course you did not discuss it in the committee, but in your personal opinion, does the Confederation of Estonian Trade Unions still represent these large employees' teams? Sailors' union is one of the biggest and most powerful.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U90	Thank you. I still believe that the Confederation of Estonian Trade Unions represents trade unions. As regards disputes within one organisation or another, which have reached the Estonian media, I think it is best that these organisations communicate with each other and find a solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U91	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In answering one question, you said that there was a need to introduce an amendment because there is a contradiction with the Constitution. I absolutely agree with that. At the moment, there have been some changes to the Trade Union Act, the Public Service Act, the Working Conditions Act for Workers Posted to Estonia, the Workers' Trustee Act, the Employment Contracts Act, the Employment Services and Benefits Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act. But why has a law such as the collective labour dispute resolution law, specifically referred to by the Supreme Court in its resolution, been deleted? In my opinion, there is a complete deficit at the moment, and it remains in force against the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U93	Thank you, Kalle Grünthal! This issue was not addressed in the Commission and there was no amendment from the EKRE to allow it to be here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U94	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U95	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Today's government coalition is known and well known for its desire to bring foreign workers to Estonia, in quite large numbers. Once again, I am aware, but I think it would be good to know in the rest of the hall how this law still affects workers and migrant workers posted to Estonia. What are the connections, what are the points of contact? I know the touch points are there, but maybe you'll light up the hall. Last time you didn't answer that part of my question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U96	Normative amendments are included in the Posted Workers' Act. Previous reference errors have been corrected.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U97	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U98	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Siret! In my modest opinion, the role of trade unions in Estonia is somewhat modest. It could be bigger or stronger. In the context of this law or any other law, have you been discussing in the Commission what this role could be and how it could be strengthened?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U99	Thanks, Leo! The Social Affairs Committee has involved the Estonian Trade Union Confederation in many meetings. I agree with you in this sense that the role of trade unions could be greater in the Republic of Estonia than it is now. Well, we're gonna have to step this way. But in various debates, we will certainly always involve trade unions when we see that they should be there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U100	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U101	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Does this law impose a financial burden on the state and, if so, what is the burden?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U102	Thank you for that question. I have already answered that, yes, it is up to EUR 2 million in one month.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U103	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U104	Thank you. The TALO is against this bill, the Central Organisation of Trade Unions of Servants. They have said that, given the size structure of the business and public service sectors, the real figures they apply must be taken into account. In their view, the regularisation of unduly high participation rates limits the development of collective employment relationships and agreements between many employees' authorised representatives as well as employers' [organisations]. The TALO believes that sectoral differences should be taken into account, otherwise this whole social dialogue will suffer more widely and the development of industrial relations will rather be hit. This would be contrary to the general principles of the ILO, but also to the principles of open civil society in the content of the European social pillar. I totally agree with that. Why was this position not taken into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U105	Thank you. As I have pointed out in the past, this draft law amending the collective agreement law was born thanks to the great cooperation between the Estonian Trade Union Confederation and the Estonian Employers' Confederation, and there are very many compromises. The fact that these institutions agreed with each other made it possible for us to deal with it today. So this is the agreement of the social partners that we have brought here and which has been so-called formalised by the Ministry of Social Affairs. I think we could accept the will of the social partners.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U106	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U107	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Now there is this situation where we have one thing to say in the Commission and there is another in the Chamber. I am confused and therefore I would like to clarify. We are talking, for example, about a chemical industry union. One member of this association is a small enterprise with 30 employees. Does this draft state that the management of the chemical industry union has the right to enter into any agreements with the trade union without coordinating with this small business and without taking account of its specific characteristics?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U108	Thank you. As we know, a trade union may already be formed by five members, a trade union association may already be formed by five associations. This draft law provides very clearly that, in order for an agreement to be possible, there must be either 15% of the employees in the sector of activity who are made redundant either by the trade union or by the trade union association, or at least 500 members, and on the other side there must be employers [who employ] at least 40% of the employees in the sector of activity [the workers]. In other words, when chemists concentrate, yes, but that doesn't mean a smaller group can decide on a bigger one. It's not here. On the contrary, here this proportionality has been introduced, which makes it possible to create a collective agreement at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U109	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U110	Thank you. Well, I hope you'll punch me in the nose again. My question relates to the fact that most of our employees are not members of the trade union. I can quite confidently say that this mechanical opportunity to form a union with five people is not realised as trade unions. How does this law really help people who do not belong to a trade union? I see that the law on collective agreements can actually make the situation of these people worse.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U111	No, on the contrary, because we are not only talking here about trade union people who are in the workplace, but we are also talking about trustees. Trusts are not required to belong to a trade union. As you know, the trustee can be chosen. To this end, employees are gathered, more than half of the employees are present and these employees choose a trustee from among their own.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U112	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U113	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I was still confused by the fact that either this small company with 30 employees, who also deals with chemical products, has a say in the first place, or indeed this chemical industry association will decide for it all the terms and conditions of pay, working time and rest periods. I didn't mean that the little one would decide about the big one, but whether the big ones here in Tallinn, for example, will decide from the end of their shit and take account of the small company in the village of Tartumaa somewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U114	Thank you. I will give an example of another area concerning doctors, perhaps it is easier. The doctors are not only in one city, they are in several cities, and if the association of doctors or nurses makes an agreement, they will consider Tartu, Pärnu and Tallinn departments. They are called departments, they are united into a great union and they stand collectively for their negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U115	Good waitress, thank you! No more questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Mr Helme will be given the floor first. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U116	Just in case, eight minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U117	Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U118	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, To be honest, I am, of course, quite reluctant to see the tone that the chairman of the committee was currently communicating with us. Such sprainy splashing, in my opinion, calls into question the competence of the chairman of the committee, because a number of very specific questions were simply not answered even by asking a number of questions. But, well, as the story goes through here, everyone can ask for what they want, and everyone can answer whatever they want. That is our rules of procedure, and this is better than any other way. But first of all, I want to say that I think that our entire party is working to ensure that employees have a better life, pay is better, the standard of living of the Estonian people is improved and the working conditions of the workers are improved. Of course, I'm not quite sure that today's bill is moving things in that direction. People tend to forget that we can set different rules, but real life is also, and this real life is called the labour market. We have reached a situation where we were quite recently. Korona came in and then the labour market moved in a different direction, i.e. towards unemployment, but before the corona there was a shortage of labour in Estonia. We have returned to a situation where we have a shortage of labour. In this situation, the labour market actually dictates that employers must meet the demands of workers. And I'm not just talking about getting paid. Salvation is, of course, one of the most central parts of the employment negotiations, but since we are a normal Western country, we are also talking about working conditions, that you can get, I don't know, for family events or for some other reason, a day off, that you don't have all weekends, Christmas and Midsummer days on schedule, etc. These are the things that workers will undoubtedly have a better trading space when negotiating in a situation where the labour market is very tense, where it is difficult to find workers. There are not very strong trade unions in Estonia, and I think that is why we should not pour crocodile tears. What we have isn't some big success stories either. This is certainly discussed by another colleague who has had personal work experience in the trade union line. It seems to me that today's law deals very much with sloganism, or let's say more politely, in office silence, with a imaginary virtual world or a fictional world. The thing that bothers me most, of course, is that this very logic, which has been loved again in the European Union, is that it is the same. We create rules for the big ones, the big ones have money and power, they may have a greater regulatory burden, and they can also pay more money. But somehow, in the process of burdening with big rules, small businesses still get hit. It is so common in Europe that these examples cannot be given. We come back to the Chemical Union. The chemical industry is a large, very important industry in Estonia, with very high value added, a lot of domestic capital. All the most important companies in this area are indeed concentrated in this Union. So he's covering that point so 40% of the employers should be in there. But there's a bunch of smaller ones like that. In Estonian terms, they may not be small, but in European terms they are all small businesses, yes, there with 30 to 50 employees. The company with 50 employees in Estonia is large, it is considered micro-micro-organisms in the European Union. Then we have a couple of big employers. In these few large employers there are organised trade unions and these few trade unions and a couple of large employers or even employers, but the umbrella organisation agrees with each other on both pay and all working conditions, and this is mandatory for all of them small without getting at the table at all. Where are we going with this? My prediction is that this will bring us to the situation of growing industrial disputes. Since this picture will be expanded, there will be more burdens, there will actually be no agreement and what has already been mentioned here is that companies are going to step out of representative organisations. The original function of the representative organisation has been something else. Now these representative organisations will agree on terms and conditions of pay and employment which are either too much for them or which they are not interested in. We are breaking up the normal system of representative organisations on the employers' side, and the joy of being a member of a trade union is simply a joy of being a member of a trade union. A typical cookie made at the Ministry of Social Affairs that improves the world, but nothing gets better. So I am sceptical that it actually contributes to what is our goal, better wages, better working conditions, the progress of the Estonian economy. I am very sorry that we did not get an answer on how this concerns posted workers, or temporary agency workers. I can guess. The Ministry of Finance was also involved when I was there, so that temporary agency workers would not slip through Estonia in such a way that taxes would not be paid or labour legislation would be monitored. But in fact, I would have liked to hear exactly what the law is doing during this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U119	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U120	Honourable Riigikogu! In such a situation, where we, as representatives of the people, have a political dispute in this Chamber, there are views on both sides and it is difficult to find a compromise on how we should proceed to improve the lives of our people and our country, it is always worth taking a moment to take a look at the past. And ask and see how similar problems and situations were solved by our predecessors, our ancestors, especially on the basis of our already rather long and meaningful tradition of statehood. I came to read Maie Pihlamäe's study from 2006 entitled "Unemployment in the Republic of Estonia in the years 1918 to 1940," which, in my opinion, illustrates exactly the same problems and how they were solved in that period in the Republic of Estonia. I am now quoting some of the paragraphs under the heading "Packets to combat unemployment": "There was no unemployment insurance in Estonia during the period between the two World Wars. However, it cannot be said that this issue has not been on the agenda at all. In order to comply with the ILO's recommendation to the countries to establish an effective unemployment insurance system, the Otto Strandman government undertook in May 1919 to develop and enforce a law on the state insurance of all employees against unemployment and to organise public works to alleviate unemployment. In November 1922, the draft "Law against Old Age, Disability and Unemployment" submitted by the Group of the Socialist Labour Party of the Riigikogu was entangled in the Committee on Labour Protection, who considered it premature to introduce the law and, due to the lack of money, to go beyond Estonia. The introduction of unemployment insurance became topical in the years of the global economic crisis as job opportunities narrowed and unemployment increased. Unemployment insurance was demanded out loud by the unemployed, local trade unions and the Estonian Confederation of Workers' Associations. The next draft unemployment insurance law was developed at the Ministry of Education and Social Affairs. On 27 February 1933, the Committee on Combating Unemployment discussed the draft Act on Unemployment Insurance and decided to reject it on the grounds that Estonia does not have the resources to implement the Act in times of crisis, nor will it be foreseen in the future. The Ministry of Economic Affairs also did not support the introduction of unemployment insurance and considered productive work from a national perspective to be the most appropriate way of combating unemployment. At the same time, both compulsory and voluntary unemployment insurance was well expanded in Europe. In 1919, 4.5 million workers, including 3.7 million in Great Britain, and nearly half a million workers, were compulsorily insured against unemployment worldwide. After World War I, Britain followed the example of Italy (1919), Austria (1920), Russia (1922), Poland (1924), Bulgaria (1925), Germany (1927) and other countries. By 1930, just over 36 million workers were covered by compulsory unemployment insurance in 10 countries around the world. 10 million workers from the Soviet Union have not been taken into account, as on October 9, 1930, all labour exchanges were closed in the Soviet Union and unemployment benefits were stopped due to the total elimination of unemployment. In Germany alone, compulsory state unemployment insurance included 15,6 million workers, in Great Britain 12.4, in Italy 4.5, in Austria 1.2, in Poland 1.0 million, etc. In parallel with compulsory unemployment insurance, the voluntary insurance system developed, which was supported by the state authorities with subsidies. In the run-up to World War I, Belgium, Denmark, France and Norway were the only ones who supported voluntary unemployment funds at national level, and after the war the Netherlands, Finland, Spain, Czechoslovakia and Switzerland were added to them. In these nine countries, almost 3 million workers were covered by voluntary insurance in 1930. In Estonia, the only way to reduce unemployment was to mediate work for the unemployed through work exchanges. The job exchanges were responsible for registering jobseekers as well as job vacancies, keeping current records of labour and job movements and collecting information on the state of the labour market. Registration on the labour market was voluntary. In 1924, when labour demand fell sharply as a result of the economic crisis, the government acknowledged the seriousness of the problem and laid the foundations for a system of assistance to the unemployed. From the 1924 state budget, the Ministry of Labour and Welfare received EUR 25 million in credit for helping the unemployed. The money was mainly used to distribute free lunches, food and clothing and footwear to those in need, as well as to organise emergency work. In this respect, the ILO's 1919 recommendation to organise public works during the unemployment period was followed. Petseri County Government and Valga City Government helped the unemployed with emergency work in the spring of 1924. Emergency work was started in Tallinn on 16 July 1924. Their organisation was the Railway Government and the works were carried out during the construction of the Järve station. At the end of the year, the city governments of Tartu, Narva and Pärnu organised emergency work for the first time. The problem of unemployment is eased by the start of seasonal work in industry and agricultural work in the countryside. As the number of jobseekers was expected to increase again in the autumn, after the end of the seasonal work, on 26 November 1924 the government set up a committee to combat unemployment, consisting of the Minister for Labour, Welfare, Money, Roads and Agriculture. The Commission's task was to develop measures to reduce unemployment. At its first meeting on 9 December 1924, the Commission took the view that unemployment could not be combated by supporting the unemployed materially with food, clothing and footwear. The only effective remedy is emergency work, which gives the unemployed a chance to earn their own living. The Commission for Combating Unemployment was a centre for emergency work until October 1926 when the government entrusted the Ministry of Roads with the organisation, supervision and allocation of emergency work and the corresponding credits.' Unfortunately, in the absence of time, I have to drop this extremely exciting text here. With your permission, I can continue this in a later speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U121	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U122	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, With my frustration, I must say that the Ministry of Social Affairs has once again completed a very confusing draft, the content of which is confusing, the text is confusing, which leaves much room for different interpretations and for itself in a suitable direction, say, to be dealt with. But at least it's a step forward. Somewhere three years ago, I came to a lecture where a doctorate in law spoke on the topic 'European Union Justice Area' and the sub-issue was 'Flexible employment relations'. I couldn't help but hear one of his examples. The example was that in the future, there will be collective agreements in the European Union, including Estonia, that workers will be put on a working week with more hours but less pay, so that instead of 40 hours, workers will work 60 hours a week and less pay for less. It is said to be the future direction of the European Union. I very much hope that this direction will not reach Estonia. Fortunately, at present, our legislation does not allow such collective agreements to be concluded, because in order to reduce employees' wages, the worker's consent is required. Just as an extension of working time or additional hours requires the worker's consent, i.e. bilateral consent. You can't do all of this unilaterally. But the question I see as a problem is our trade unions. The union law does say everything nicely, and it's a very beautiful ideal, in reality and real life it doesn't work. I speak on the basis of public authorities, where trade unions are made. After all, the head of the trade union is under the authority of the director-general of this state institution, i.e. he is dependent. It is very common that this relationship of dependence limits the activities of the union leader. I have seen side by side how the union leader, who fought too hard and actively for the workers, was just fired, found the cause and fired because he was not fit. Now I have a question. If the union leader can get under the pressure of his immediate leader, and let's say, the head of this institution, how much can he stand up for workers' rights? Is it not possible to have a situation where the same trade union leader, who should negotiate a collective agreement on behalf of workers and should apply for more suitable conditions for workers, is one moment inclined to do so in the interests of the employer in order to maintain his job? Finally, the collective agreement is a harmful relationship for workers. I see it as a serious threat. Like I said before, the union law would be very nice if everything was perfect. This isn't real life. I have seen side by side how union leaders have been repressed. I also know what's going on in a lot of companies, that if an employee dares to join a trade union, he's got a badge on him, then he's no longer fit, then he's the enemy, and it's gonna be any... Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U123	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U124	... to use it as soon as possible to get rid of this employee. This situation is not normal. My point is that if we make any laws in this Riigikogu, if the ministries make laws, then these laws must be realistic and real, and these laws must be created in such a way that they actually work. This draft is another example, as I said, of how the text of the law is very confusing. It is not clear and unambiguous what is going to be and what rights have to do. That is why I really see that this could lead to a lot of major labour disputes, and then we get back to the point where the courts are overburdened with work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U125	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U126	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, What am I talking about? In fact, it is a positive initiative. It started after the bus driver from Aarne Island. We often have such drafts that a particular person will stand up for his rights and reach the Supreme Court or even the Court of Justice and then it will return to our Chamber. Bus driver Aarne Saare was awarded a salary of 1900 euros and 93 cents and a holiday allowance of 149 euros and 34 cents, while interest was still paid. But that's what this is, it's one of those motives. It is also interesting that this unemployment threshold, which starts with this so-called payment of aid, is 8.5%. The bill states that this unemployment was the next day our government fell on January 13. Unemployment of 8.5% has lasted until 1 May. It is important to remember this: 8.5% and higher. Well, what's it gonna be? For the first hundred days, 60% of the salary, 40% of the 101st day and 180.365 days depending on the length of the service. Everything's beautiful. But now we're going to get to the bottom of what I want to say. That's another example of how big guys bite a big piece, and little guys usually stay with a long nose. Who are the parties who agree on these agreements, the working conditions, the salary and everything else? They're big employers. An employer who is one of the parties must be an employer of at least 40% of the employees in the corresponding sector of activity. 40% is almost half the sector. However, trade unions, which are their partners and their counterparts, must have at least 15% of the workers in the sector. By the way, the Chamber of Commerce has said that there are too few, 25 to 30%, trade unions should be even bigger. So, in fact, the two greats agree on terms. It's gonna cost about $2 million. We consider the money that the Estonian state has burned in the event of COVID's unemployment. We have listened to KredEx in the Committee on State Budget Control in recent days as well as to the hundreds of millions of flights of the MES yesterday morning and often to those who do not need it at all. So this 2 million is in the kitchen, and in general, with the unemployment fund, things have gone where they need to. But the most important thing is that the big ones agree on working conditions, wages, and so on, but what do the smaller ones have? In the past, Martin spoke here, and many others also said that the smaller ones must accept all this. I'd like a few more minutes, three minutes, if there's time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U127	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U128	Here's a very nice example. There are 3860 people working in the mountain industry. According to the percentage of this union, that 20%, there should be 772 people in the union. There's only one employer, Enefit Mines. Or the financial sector with 12600 people, there are only two players, Swedbank and SEB. The communications sector with 27000 employees is nine large. And what's the result? I'm going to read out a difference of opinion, it's a difference of opinion between the Small and Medium Business Association. They're not in favour. They say this: "Today, in the context of the COVID-19 crisis, this is the moment when we should think of Estonia as a country with an overwhelming majority of micro- and small businesses, do we continue to roll over the road of the country and large companies, brutally rejecting small interests and constitutional rights and replacing them with unconstitutionally seeming inclusion?" And that's the content. On the one hand, it is good to go up against the fall when the corona is likely to lift its head again. By the way, according to this draft law, the law should be in force as early as summer, 31 July, and in force until 31 December, it is a half-year bill, 2 million will cost. They're thinking about six months at this time, and it's urgent. But yes, the main thing is that, since Estonia is really the land of small companies in particular, the danger and risk that the conditions for small enterprises will also be dictated by the so-called pay and other benefits, and this will simply push them out with noble goals and make their lives more difficult, including the recruitment of employees. So one way, the other way, a very troubled bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U129	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U130	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good technical personnel! As we know, here again we are dealing with a rather ambivalent draft and, in order for you to take a stand, rather than to be sluggish, I feel obliged to offer this subject a historical context again. True, a good colleague, Reuben Kaalep, started, but he focused more on Estonia. I'm trying to generalize more. I look at these conditions, which gave rise to two phenomena: Marxism and trade unions. With your permission, I'd get a little ahead of myself. I would like to start by again highlighting the fact that this bill is a kind of tripartite compromise between the Estonian Employers' Confederation, the Estonian Trade Union Confederation and the Ministry of Social Affairs. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in the initial phase of the formation of trade unions, such a compromise would have seemed not only impossible but also grotesque, I would say. On the other hand, I would like to stress that Marxism, which for a very long time also gave the trade unions a theoretical ideological basis, has, to date, remained the basis of the paradigm of the conflict, but it is still gradually removed from the trade unions, at least in Europe. True, not really, but not really. Traditional ties have survived. It is often believed that this connection is closer than it really is. Thus, both trade unions and Marxism were required to develop a collective identity of the working class. Otherwise there could not be any trade unions, nor would it have occurred to Marx that proletariat is a hegemonist who moves the development of the world from the front, dragging all the other classes of society to his own. This collective identity was necessary and this collective identity could be developed in the course of industrialisation. Try to think about the situation before industrialisation. Look, it was an aggressive society: people lived in the country, they didn't live together, and they were much more individualistic than the working class. Industrialisation itself began at different times in different countries. But again, its model is actually quite similar. Very often, even historians make the mistake of looking somewhere for transition or take-over features, not to mention that under similar circumstances phenomena occur at the same time or not at the very same time, but they develop similar phenomena that do not mean copying. So industrialisation began at different times in different countries, but the model was similar. As we know, it began in England in the second half of the 18th century. In Russia, industrialisation is handled in such a way that theorists say that it can be so and so. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U131	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U132	Some theorists are convinced that it began at the end of the 19th century as a solo concert in industry, and others claim that in fact we can only talk about socialist industrialisation. What matters to our subject is that while Marx was living in Germany, Germany went through a period of industrialisation, i.e. in the mid-19th century and in the decades following the mid-19th century. Well, now I'm getting to the point. Prior to industrialisation, the industry was dominated by a traditional organisational model, which was a relatively small company and a general ordering system. There was no anonymous market. The market did so by ordering something from the craft master, having some helpers, and as much as they ordered, he produced so much. In the process of industrialisation, the market became anonymous, production went to the factory, and a whole new kind of decision had to be made. These small amounts of capital, which were already sufficient, remained insufficient for the start-up and organisation of a new business. And what happened to the workers? The workers began to work under one roof and one guide, and their number increased sharply. Since factories demanded discipline, such machinework had to always begin and end at a certain time as long as the machine worked, so did the worker. The worker could no longer arrange his own rules, but either the machine or its owner set the rules for all the workers. Discipline became necessary, with which, of course, a large number of workers were not satisfied. They had come from the country. There's something in the countryside where a man is his own master, who decides when he's doing some kind of work. It wasn't like that now. Go on, somebody had to herd those workers, right, so there's discipline. Because when the machine stops, it's a loss. Thus came the institution of the foreman. With the expansion of the number of operational operations, their power would also increase in the future. This is where we see the conflict between classical capitalists and workers. I don't want to spend any more of your time right now, but I'm going to go back to this, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U133	Thank you very much. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U134	Yeah, thanks! First of all, I would like to thank my colleague, Mr White, who gave me the opportunity to continue this discussion on history here. The emergence of Marxism in the 19th century is indeed one of those historical moments, I think what we should still feel and keep in mind now in order to see possible similar historical processes today. The very important and interesting moment that my colleague pointed out in his speech is precisely how the emergence of Marxism created a class identity that crossed the borders of nations, states. To this this ideology was oppressed and through it became international, but it can also be said to be globalistic. Here, too, it is a very interesting moment to observe the various utopian and globalist movements and the flow of thought throughout history, that it is often such a connecting feature that it is trying to find some kind of connecting or so-called higher idea that frees man from his tribal ties, family ties and ties with his country. This can be seen both in the case of 19th century Marxism and, for example, in today's liberal democracy. Another very clear ideological feature that unites is that it is opposed to any dissent, or one ideology is considered to be the only right one. Unfortunately, I cannot extend this issue further, but I will certainly do so in my subsequent speeches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U135	Thank you. Please have the Riigikogu speech chair Anti Polandmets.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U136	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good ambassadors! I'd like to start with a few good words about this bill. Indeed, who could object to [workers] raising a child under the age of seven and officials representing particularly vulnerable groups of workers, such as pregnant women, persons entitled to maternity leave, naturally have a basic role to play in raising compensation. I actually know the cases when the toddler's mother is fired. But excuse me, how does he feed himself if there is no job, what does he feed his child? In today's safety net, the worst situation is when the money is out, but there is no job and there is no job. It's one of the weakest places in our civil defense when we're out of money, the compensation money's out, and there's still no job. A lot of people could fall in that hole. I remember the last time one of the Defence Forces lived in a tent. The Defence Forces didn't start complaining, they put up a tent and spent months there in spring weather. But in the end, he found a job. What do others who are not accustomed to living in tents do in such cases? So I started with a positive note, but most of the topics are fine-tuning again. What is fine-tuning? It's like society's ready, and then we're gonna improve the working conditions a little bit. But there are, in fact, several tens of thousands of migrant workers living under the conditions of the 19th century. Men live in an apartment for months, don't see their family for months, do ten hours and longer working days, are on poor food and watch: see, at the end of the month we didn't get any money, we can't even drive home, we got run over. That's the news we read all the time. That's the reality of us grinding here and grinding there, but the elephant's in the room. There are tens of thousands of migrant workers who are rolled over, who are lower than the grass themselves, because they need to take money home, they cannot go back empty-handed. But that makes them weaker, and mean employers can run over them. This is the reality of Estonia today. They are advertised as the rescuers of the labour market and everything else, but in fact, tens of thousands of people are being over-rolled in front of everyone. Some of them are illegals, a remarkable percentage. I'm sure there'll be fewer in COVID's time. But I have seen it all in the public space of Estonia in passing. At the same time, we ourselves have 51000 unemployed people and fewer than 7 000 vacancies. We're bringing in seasonal workers, temporary workers, who are knocking down wages. Is it wise to update the law here a little bit and add some trustees when, in fact, wages are brutally lowered and the locals are told that you are too demanding? Can I have an extra three minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U137	It was three, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U138	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U139	Got it. Three, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U140	So we should actually focus our attention on this very issue of migrant labour. This has always been raised by the EKRE Group. In the case of migrant workers, it is not only about cutting wages, taking jobs away from the locals and accepting very poor conditions that the locals no longer accept, but also about moving from a long perspective to the fact that Estonians tend to remain in the minority again. I dare say that our entire group is concerned about this. Jaak Valge has written long stories of concern, Ruuben Kaalep refers to these problems in this very hall for more than a day, Paul Puustusmaa writes about them, performs his ambassador's programme and constantly raises concerns. I see that we have a group that is really worried about these issues. I believe that trade unions should be like medieval tsunamis that genuinely protect the interests of their workers, demand qualifications and not allow labour market manipulation to take place in a particularly comfortable direction for employers. I recently went to the Committee on Foreign Affairs in the Arab countries. What did we see? In a country like Dubai, 10% of natives do not work, live on oil money, and 90% do all the work. It really reminds me of slavery in ancient Rome, in quite a number of ways. Many people have working conditions that do not see their family for years, just thinking about sending their money home sometime. Do you think they have extraordinarily good conditions? So these are the oil nations. It seems to me that some of our employers think the same way that if we are here at least 10%, we will be able to do so, as long as business flourishes and is as obedient as possible to the workforce that doesn't argue with anything and who knocks down prices. Even if crime is growing, this employer thinks that he is moving to a part of the city behind the barrier, where security is available, and if necessary, he puts bulletproof glasses on the car. There's nothing utopian here. I remember a good outsider was working on selling bulletproof cars in South America. This vision doesn't suit us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U141	Thank you. You also mentioned several members of the Riigikogu and kindly they have the opportunity, if they wish, to rejoinder. Paul Woodland is about to use it. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U142	Thank you very much, Mr President. A good colleague, Anti Poolamets, referred to Old Rome and the slaver. In fact, one of the difficult moments of this law is that there has been a very gross mistake here against the old classic Roman saying, which in Latin sounds cito maturum, cito putridum and means that it has been done quickly, badly done. But I'll talk about it for a while, so I'll be there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U143	Don't come yet, maybe Mr. White would like a recliner, I'd be interested. I don't want to now, do I? If you don't want to, you don't. But now I'm asking for the Riigikogu's speech chair, Paul Puustusmaa. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U144	So, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues who are in the Chamber, and even sweeter ones who are not in the Chamber! Perhaps in some ways they would hope that they wouldn't come to the hall either, because it might be useful. It is also good to say to those who, somewhere far away behind the monitors, watch me on television, as the classics said in one of our films: "Hello, comrades, sleepless! " Yes. But now from that law, 383. I said classical Latin words in response to my good colleague Anti. Not because I would somehow like to mimic our well-known living encyclopedia, whom we remember very well, the Hard Wing, I wouldn't fit in his shoes anyway, but because indeed, good friends, one of the biggest problems of this law is that it's done too quickly and it's done too sloppyly, it's done too sloppyly. Maybe my words are harsh, but maybe they should be even tougher. I recall how our ladies and gentlemen have been here to analyse this law and what they have accused us of. Kert Kingo said the right thing, sorry! The wording is bad because this text is confusing. That's right. Peeter Ernits repeated that the whole point and direction of this law is essentially to bully small businesses, because he is made for someone somewhere, for some big companies, in a situation where the most common forms of enterprise in our country are small and medium-sized enterprises. Of course, the good friend Jaak White, who, true, not directly, did not mention the examples showed that he was a grotesque. Indeed, it is a grotesque. Consider, for example, the wording of this law. Yes, Kert said it was bad, but now let us listen a little to the introduction of this draft, to whom this draft is intended: "The draft will align the regulation on extending the term of the collective agreement with the freedom to conduct a business protected by the Constitution, while ensuring the capacity for social partnership and collective inclusion. " Holy shit, such a pulpit and slogan! When I asked the good Siret, for whom this law was created, whether it was possible to bring out a lobby more clearly, whether it was for smaller companies, for larger companies, for micro-enterprises, then Siret told me that no, it is very good for everyone, that it is for the workers and it is good for employers and, ultimately, for a company with 10 people, that law could be very good. That's a lie. We will read more about the objective of the law: "The objective is that the conditions for pay, work and rest periods can be extended to the whole sector only if they are agreed by employers who offer employment to workers in the sector of activity corresponding to at least 40% and by a trade union association bringing together members of the same sector of activity, whose members make up 15 percent of the employees in the sector or who have at least 500 members. " Well, yeah, that's how we got out to this micro enterprise, I think, or it's a micro very big micro, maybe in Chinese dimensions or something like that. My good colleague, Peeter Ernits, did well to make some serious accusations about the fact that small and medium-sized enterprises are being badly harmed. He brought out nuances. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U145	Yes, please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U146	He pointed out the nuances in which the Estonian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises brought complaints about this draft also to the Riigikogu Committee and they were not taken into account. I wouldn't just like to quote Peeter now, but I'll bring out some places that are really painful and really embarrassing. This draft, which we are looking at together, is not acceptable in its proposed form for small and medium-sized enterprises and is detrimental to the economy as a whole, undermining fair competition (is contrary to Section 4 of the Competition Act), significantly violating the constitutional rights of small and medium-sized enterprises (§ 29, § 31, § 32, significant interference), deliberately leaving aside the possibility of affecting working conditions and thereby making them uncompetitive in comparison with large domestic and often international companies. I have already repeatedly referred to the urgency of this law. The question then is why this urgency. Let us think that this bill has been dealt with for a few months. Couple of months! In our normal working conditions, bring the law to second and planned third reading in a few months, well, here's the way it is now, monkey speed. Is that justified? Actually, it's not. These problems, which have been highlighted and referred to in the drafting of this law, emerged separately in our society in 2005, 2006, 2007 and were then in no hurry. But all of a sudden, it got really busy. So, dear friends, there are more doubts and doubts about this bill than there should be. I'm very sorry to all those who may have been offended by my sharp sarcasm. But this bill is worse than bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U147	Thank you. And now for the reception, Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U148	Thanks for the opportunity. A good groupmate mentioned my name and pointed out what I blamed for this law. I would like to clarify so much and draw attention to the fact that we, the Riigikogu, have a duty to ensure the quality of the laws. Unfortunately, we are seeing more and more very bad laws that are poorly formulated, which are actually causing legal confusion and which will result in us only burdening the courts in the future. Although the burden on the courts by today is a huge problem, unfortunately, we are giving them more work. I very much hope that in the future we will avoid this and that we will at least be able to make the text a little more high-quality and unambiguous in the committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U149	Thank you. Now we have Jaak White. But in order for our colleagues and followers to understand, tell us if you want to present it to Mr. Polish Forest or Mr. Woodland.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U150	Mr. Woodland.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U151	Got it. Please, Mr. White!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U152	Actually, I'm going to make such a general statement. Thank you very much for this offer. Indeed, it seems to me that perhaps not all previous speakers could have fully grasped the conditions that prevailed during the first phase of industrialisation when the preconditions for the emergence of trade unions were formed, and I would like to explain. These were not simple conditions, the workers had fallen into an environment that was actually totally different from their former working life. Working hours were monotonous and long, sometimes working for the whole family. Often, children were paid less than parents, not even often, but as a general rule. Keeping this kind of workforce robust and active was not easy. The first method of trying to do this came from somewhere in the medieval dim, and it was a joint punishment. Often, in order to save children from the brutal punishment of the foreman, the parents beat them themselves. The joint punishment was particularly applied to apprentices who had been sent to factories for several years and who could not be fired. The release or threat was applied to adults who served as family breadwinners. If you imagine this situation, you will understand why the unions had to emerge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U153	Thank you. Now we have received Mr Puustusmaa's speech. Mr. Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U154	Thank you. Yeah, there's two sides to everything. The good side, when unemployment starts to rise in the autumn, is that this draft will enter into force on 31 July and can already be used in September. That's positive. On the negative side, however, I must remind my fellow Members that, when drawing up the draft, an impact analysis was not carried out on its impact on small and medium-sized enterprises and job creation, on regional development, the vast majority of them are small enterprises, not in the city, but above all on land, and on the distortion of competition. I quote further the argument of the association of small and medium-sized enterprises, which was sent to the Social Committee: "The adoption of the draft will lead to a significant breach of competition law in many areas, a few of the larger companies will be able to enter into non-performance wage agreements to eliminate or damage smaller competitors. " But it was the same thing I stopped on earlier. So I hope it will complement this mosaic around this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U155	I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Kalle Grünthal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U156	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U157	Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U158	First of all, I am very pleased to see the Chairman of our Riigikogu, Mr Jüri Ratas, for a long time. I've really missed you guys, and I think you've had a really big desire to see me, too. So completely frankly, it's a pleasure to meet you! But I come to a completely different point in my speech today. In our society, it is common practice to constantly talk about all kinds of problems, especially spiritual violence and bullying. We all know that there is a family bullying and there is a job bullying and there is a school bullying. Today I discovered that there is also a concept such as bullying of the Riigikogu when its colleagues are being bullied. I don't know why. Although I'm thick-skinned, and frankly I don't have much effect on all the sayings, but I just came to that conclusion in the collection. There were two such occasions today. Kaja Kallas came to the remote, and when you asked the question, there came such a song that he hoped I wouldn't ask again. To be honest, Siret Kotka, the rapporteur for today's draft committee, is also at the same level that he does not answer the question. I ask what links are here, for example, to the trade union law and collective agreement law, and why the law on collective labour dispute resolution has not been taken into account. He says it's your opinion. In essence, the question is not answered. I don't know what those reasons are. Is this really a lack of knowledge, which is why irony or some subtlety are being addressed, or are there deficiencies in anatomical, physiological needs? I don't quite know what to say, but I guess it's just like the people they know. But what is the problem with these answers in the collection? That kind of answer forgets why we're here. This is not the kind of place where sharps are thrown, but we have to have a social debate about these laws, so that everyone can understand the matter to the end, and those who are subject to the law would also be prepared to comply with it correctly, and there would be no disputes that would eventually have to be settled in the Supreme Court. This isn't the place to show wit. These things will be settled in another place. Needless to say, I had a very sympathetic example of today's presentation by reform party Kristen Michal, which is that he is a coalition and essentially a political opponent, but he gave absolutely normal answers, thought, answered for a long time and, if he did not know, admitted what the two women mentioned above, who did not do today, absolutely did not do. In this sense, I think this bullying of the Riigikogu is not appropriate. We have come here to work and adopt the laws in the best form. Sharpness could be somewhere else. But nice! I'd like to try to fill out the rest of the speech with today's draft. I would like to say honestly that I, too, support the position of the Estonian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises that this draft should not be supported. There are also huge differences between this draft, because it is often the case that the larger trade union federations have one position and the smaller ones are disregarded. I want to give a concrete example of the vital side. As we know, there was such a case in Tallinn Ambulance that a risk analysis of the working environment of Tallinn Ambulance confirmed that workers should be vaccinated to prevent the spread of SARS-CoV. One of the employees, Joonas Sõsa, refused. He said that it was not justified and why he was forced to do so. Basically, the point was that the chief physician, Raul Adlas, announced to the public that those who do not agree to do so would be fired. Perhaps it is essentially an indirect coercion to vaccinate. But, of course, in fact, Raul Adlas did not give the correct reference to a legal provision on the basis of which such an employment contract could be terminated. Because Joonas Sõsi was very consistent with his comrades, they formed a trade union to protect the rights of ambulance workers. But what was Raul Adlas' mistake? In fact, Adlas based its communication on Paragraph 6 (2) (7) of the Government's regulation on health and safety requirements in the workplace affected by biological hazards, according to which the health risk of workers must be kept to a minimum and the possibility of vaccination should be ensured for workers who are exposed to biological hazards against which an effective vaccine exists. By examining this regulation, it appears that this regulation lays down health and safety requirements for the protection of workers from biological hazards affecting the working environment, which in fact means that the employer has an obligation to protect workers from biological hazards. But the norm to which Adlas refers actually regulates the employer's obligation to reduce the health risk. The same regulation also states that where the risk cannot be eliminated by such measures, the health risk of workers must be reduced to the lowest possible level by applying the following measures: Among other things, the possibility of vaccination must be guaranteed for workers who are exposed to biological risk factors against which I very much emphasise the effectiveness of the vaccine. But here it is forgotten that this point only gives the employee the opportunity to vaccinate, which means that it cannot be made compulsory. According to the Constitution, a person has free will because, in fact, an employer only wants to protect an employee under the regulation, but cannot be put under pressure. Similarly, it is questionable whether there is an effective vaccine. The other questions go on. But I'm sure I'll be able to talk about it today. This, in fact, in the collection, shows that this bill has not succeeded well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U159	Thank you. Riigikogu speech chair Oudekki Loone, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U160	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, it's a pretty reasonable law. This will improve a number of problems in our labour market, from the regulation of extended collective agreements to unemployment benefit and unemployment benefit. Yes, of course, the Estonian labour market could be better regulated and should be very much better regulated, even in these same areas. These same extended collective agreements should be mandatory in each sector. Or maybe the requirement we mentioned that the trustees should not be fired as long as they are employees' trustees. But, well, a step in the right direction is still being done here. Following the decision of the Supreme Court, these agreements in the extended sector have been left in no-man's land, like there is nothing at all. This draft eliminates the uncertainty of today's legislation and imposes requirements on the parties to the collective agreement for representation, which is actually a sensible approach. It is also important that these representation requirements were not born somewhere under the silence of bureaucrats, but were agreed between businesses and workers after lengthy discussions. It is a good and important tendency that the two special groups mentioned in our constitution, the business representative organisations and the employee representative organisations, themselves, provide an effective input for regulating their area of activity. This does not mean that their input should be approved by one hundred percent immediately. However, Parliament is here to discuss and, if necessary, to improve things. But it is good that input and agreement do not come from a bureaucrat, but from employees and entrepreneurs. It's good practice. Indeed, the most questionable principle here is that it is reasonable to define the principle of the representation of undertakings on the basis of how many employees they have. It makes sense that while 40% of workers have certain conditions, other workers also have a legitimate expectation that they have the same rights. That's why it's expanding. On the other hand, what a number of colleagues have mentioned is that this does not leave small businesses at the mercy of the big ones. One solution would be: it could be regulated in such a way as to have a representative principle for companies to have x per cent of all economic operators in the business community. That would be one of the possible solutions. Of course, there may also be a problem that a large enterprise is cutting itself apart or quickly making many small businesses and still gaining the upper hand. That, too, is possible. No solution is without problems. Therefore, I rather think that, since this proposal has indeed come from the Confederation of Employers, we could see if it works and how much it works. If necessary, you can go to another representative principle. What is important is that we can once again conclude extended sector agreements, and that we can conclude extended collective agreements. This is the fact that actually makes people belong to these alliances, which gives individual companies, including small businesses, a voice and the right to have a say, and, of course, a worker in the same way. Whatever our employment, an individual worker will never have the same negotiating power as capital, because capital is always concentrated, there is no job. Employees are an equal partner only if they are concentrated, if there is a trade union, if collective agreements are made, then we get fair agreements. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U161	Yeah. How much do you want? Three minutes, two minutes, one minute?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U162	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U163	Three. Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U164	The questions mentioned migrant workers several times and some reports also mentioned them. This is indeed a very important issue, especially in the light of this law, because an extended collective agreement is the only solution to the problem of the exploitation of migrant workers, the only possible solution. Even closing the borders isn't, because, as we know, you can close the borders, you can put a "no entry" sign on the gate, but as long as you have a neon letter flashing in the sky, "A cheap workforce is needed," they'll still come in from under the fence somewhere. What we have to do is precisely: regulate our labour market so that companies cannot compete by putting the strawberry picker somewhere to live in a trash tent, as is done in Spain, and then paying them no money. The extended collective agreement is that all companies in the sector, all strawberry growers, must guarantee certain minimum conditions, certain wage conditions. Of course, in order to agree on this, too, there must be a representation rule on the part of both workers and growers, which exists in this law. So that's the solution. This is a very fundamental solution. I hope that this new norm will actually increase the membership of trade unions as well as the membership of business associations, because here is the real thing that affects their members and everyone's well-being. Of course, one can certainly wonder whether tripartite negotiations can be made even more effective in such a way that the umbrella organisations of all kinds of workers and entrepreneurs are properly involved. It is actually possible to put more organisations into trialogues. It should be required to maintain the principle of balance, that capital in general has one vote, that there is one vote at work, but that one vote can be shared by a number of organisations and that they must agree themselves first. That's one way to do it. I think it is very reasonable for Parliament to make such a recommendation to the government, too, so that this can continue. I would like to thank my fellow Members, who have pointed out on a number of occasions today how many problems and bad circumstances our workers face. That is indeed the case. This has been the case for the last 30 years. I am sincerely pleased that, at last, in Parliament, which is at about two o'clock in the morning, we have come to this. Very good. Let's keep going. We are going to adopt this law and we are going to work to ensure that we have a law, a statute of workers' rights, where all the rights that we think an Estonian worker needs are collected, what he needs to be protected, and that companies compete with each other for those who make a better-interesting product and offer a better service, not for those who are better able to exploit workers. We all work together, it needs cooperation from left to right. But let's make such a statute, and I believe that Estonia will be richer and that this wealth will actually be distributed to those who work. But until then, let us reenforce the extended collective agreements and all the smaller and bigger things that exist in this law. It's not too bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U165	Thank you. Riigikogu speech chair Siim Pohlak, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U166	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleagues with sleepy faces and viewers behind computers! There has been a lot of talk about work and workers here. I'm still looking at these things from different angles. First of all, large companies versus small enterprises. Several times today, it sounded like a road roller that basically runs small businesses over their toes. They can't be involved here, and they have to follow all these rules and act in this environment. Here, you might want to look at it more broadly, in fact, at the entire working arrangements of today. We were also in the Riigikogu for a long time on teleworking, with many smaller and larger companies doing teleworking. At the same time, the Code of Conduct, which the Labour Inspectorate controls, does not correspond to reality. Even now, I think, 20% to 25% of the office people are still in the home office. This is one place where you can see that regulations come with real life. But there was also talk of wages. In my opinion, labour taxes could also be affected by wages. The Estonian tax system is currently inclined towards heavy labour taxes. In fact, work is taxed. Why these choices were ever made, I'm not going to dissect here right now. However, it would be worth considering reducing labour taxes, which could increase workers' wages. The debate on a tax on profits covering all countries, which began in the digital economy, is likely to begin soon. Therefore, we in Estonia should also consider whether and which way to set up our tax system. Is it true that the centre of gravity is on labour taxes? It is a pleasure to see that colleagues from the Social Democratic Group have arrived. I had concerns that the protectors of the working people were finally dedicated only to minorities, but still a brave soldier was present. I think we have a lot of entrepreneurs and business contacts in this hall: Rene Kokk, Merry Aart, Leo Kunnas, Urmas Reitelmann, Anti Half Office...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U167	I can't make it that fast.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U168	Jaak White, too, and I believe that Uno Kaskpeit in its own way, Kert Kingo, and also Mr President, has been an entrepreneur himself, Jüri Ratas. I believe everyone here may have a wish and a chance to say the word. Thank you. It's not a long story anymore.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U169	Thank you very much. Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu for a speech chair in Lauri Läänemets. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U170	Madam President, the President of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, During the first item on the agenda of the day, which was the publication of censure to the Prime Minister, we also talked about workers and doing work, saviors, teachers, their wages, the need to raise it and the injustice that if you are on public wages and the state has to pay back loans, then you are the one whose wages do not have to rise for some reason, while we have one of the greatest economic growth over a long time and everyone else's wages are rising. It's not just because your salary doesn't go up because you're state-paid. The government cannot separate the vision that people who work must still get paid, their wages must rise in the same way as everyone else in Estonia. If the loan needs to be repaid, this money does not have to come from those people who also need to be paid fair wages, but should be contributed by all Estonian people. If necessary, I do not know, there will be tax solutions or whatever other solutions, but it is very unfair that only one part of the people contributes to the repayment of loans. Prime Minister Kaja Kallas answered my question very interestingly, but I understand that this is a vision of the world. He claimed that wealth in society was created by entrepreneurs. Indeed, we are beginning to wonder whether only entrepreneurs create wealth. No, it's not, it's completely wrong, it's wrong. This is what the Reform Party and some other political parties have been repeating all along, for years and years in Estonia, and what very many people believe: yes, only entrepreneurs create wealth. No, I'm not, I'm telling you. If we begin to think at all, we realise that in fact, wealth is created by every person, wealth, social wealth, economic wealth is created by every person in this country, including, of course, entrepreneurs and businesses. But no company or entrepreneur can manage unless he is an individual, without employees who can do their job, who can do their job well, who is motivated, who wants to do this job. So let's forget, please, this false story, like a certain part of society is creating wealth, and the rest are free eaters. No, it's not. Kaja Kallas also said that only in the private sector will wealth or wealth be created and they will contribute as taxes. No, those people who are on public wages pay taxes too. It doesn't matter that the money is in their pockets from the state budget, it's their pay, they pay taxes on it, they contribute to society. Such things, in my opinion such elementary things so misdirected, are unfortunately to be heard from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia. Now a little bit of this bill. As we know, if it is possible to lead a society or a country in such a way that people or the parties to a society can make agreements and agree on matters, then we should also direct it to society in this way. The more we try to put things into law, the more bureaucracy we create. Again I remember from history... In the meantime, please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U171	Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U172	Yes, thank you! I recall from history that the Reform Party here is talking about bureaucracy spreading. But the less trust in society, the more bureaucracy is actually created by law, because every detail and everything in this country is being regulated, put into law. That is how we will get much more laws that will ultimately hinder the functioning of the country. One of the advocates of the bill by the esteemed Central Party of Oudekki Loone said that it would certainly be better. I'm saying it's gonna be better. The Social Democrats have made a much better amendment to this draft than the content that is written here. The point of our proposal is not that we are trying to regulate everything and put it into law because it does not work. I'm just gonna unravel this bill's explanatory statement and see what it says. Very well, it says here that the main problem of the current regime is the lack of pre-conditions for extension and application criteria, which allows a small group to agree to extend its obligations to the whole sector. And you know what? This bill will not solve this problem. It is best to say that this is a problem and that this problem is being tackled, but it is not being solved. While this was in the debate in the Commission, the very small businesses, for example, which have been said a lot about here, gave a lot of examples of how this draft is very unfair also to businesses and, in fact, very unfair also to workers. We have made a very simple proposal. The Socialist proposal, which we will all be able to vote on soon, concerns that the extension of the terms of the collective agreement can be agreed by a trade union association or a trade union and an employers' association or an employers' association recognised by the social partners in the field of activity. It's a very simple suggestion. Employers and trade unions first agree on who can agree with each other and then conclude these agreements themselves. We do not have to come from this Riigikogu to tell you how to live; we do not have to tell employers in advance; we do not have to tell trade unions in advance. The reality is that today we are not creating this bridge between workers and employers, but we are creating bureaucracy and trust there. But if we want this system to work and have confidence and both sides contribute, workers contribute to the work of employers and vice versa, it should give them the opportunity to engage in dialogue and trust each other. So my request to all of you is to support the Socialist proposal today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U173	Thank you. Anti-Semiamets, address.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U174	... a reply to a previous performer. I would like to thank the previous speaker for raising the subject. [[A voice from the hall.]] Siim Pohlak.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U175	Mr. Halfwit, please, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U176	Siim Pohlak, if the procedure allows, I'd like to respond right now. He raised a serious issue and pointed out very well that those who have ever started entrepreneurship will be naturally aware of what labour taxes mean. It still makes a beginner's entrepreneur breathless, and that's where we have room for improvement. If we want to reduce the tax burden on our businesses, yes, Siim, thank you for the reference, there is a big fish hiding.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U177	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu speech chair Leo Kunnas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U178	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U179	Yes, of course, please, kindly for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U180	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Now that so many performances have been held within the framework of collective agreements, which are known to concern the two parties, employees and employers, who are supposed to seek a compromise between themselves, it would be wise once again to dwell on our political culture, as well as on the structure, to see how it has gone and where we are now. Maybe we're actually in Obstruction Day 8. It's 3:00 a.m., and we have 10 hours left if we don't extend the time, and 11 hours if we extend it, maybe until the end of the spring session, if we don't do the extra sessions. We have five other readings here and a development plan for education, all of which are long-standing, three hours each. We can see how far this timeline is. Yes, 366 SE has passed both second and third readings. But now we have a hypothetical question: are you sure that the President of the Republic will announce it? Madam President has been cautious on issues relating to the violation of the rights and freedoms of individuals. I don't know how to answer that question, but in ten days we'll see the answer. What else would I say about that obstruction? Our message is simple: the will of the EKRE Group is not breakable. This humble message should perhaps reach everyone now. But in order for this roller to not work, we need more compromise. Now I will give two negative examples from the time of the previous government of how we did not succeed in this compromise. When the budget was adopted and we discussed the amendments made by the opposition, we discussed them with Siim Pohlak, the leader of the political group at the time, and I do not want to refer at all to his name, but it really took place, I proposed to Siimu that there are five proposals, with a total of less than one million euros, and everything seems to be sensible small things. Why can't we meet the opposition? Why don't we put them in? It doesn't cost anything, and everyone would be much better off if we did. Siim also tried a little bit to talk about it in the coalition, but in the end it all came down to the fact that things were getting messy, we couldn't make any compromises. If we make any compromises or concessions, we won't keep this whole thing together anymore. Maybe if the roller gets sand between the bearings, he can stop. In a sense, it was disappointing to me, as a newcomer to the Riigikogu, whether this is the way it works. Another similar case was in the Committee on National Defence, where the opposition, or members of our committee, Johannes Kert and Kalle Laanet, Madis Milling and other members of the committee, came up with two constructive proposals during the budgetary process that we put 20 million midland on anti-aircraft, start and put 10 million into maritime surveillance. We then discussed these proposals in the Commission. And where did we get to or where did we not get to? This is where the same barrier came in. I suggested to the coalition mates that well, if we can't put 20 million in midland anti-aircraft, let's put 5 million in it and start with it, make a decision, and then we can put things on the RES and move on, start the process. But here the same answer came that no, we cannot do that, the leaders of the political groups have not agreed on anything, and if we do that, all things will go to pieces or get out of hand. Unfortunately, we did not reach a compromise on either of these matters. But this should not be the way we work. We should admit the mistakes we've made and correct them. We have had this roller culture of the republic for 30 years soon, and it has not developed in one day or in one week or in one Riigikogu, it has evolved over a long period of time. Everyone has implemented it, no matter who's been in power, everyone has mercilessly applied it. We think it's normal, that's our normal work culture. But perhaps it has also encouraged that it cannot be avoided, or otherwise, as opposed to decisive will. I don't see any other way to do this. I walked into the Riigikogu one morning, I always walk here. We have two basic metaphors for the Riigikogu: rubber stamp and roller. I remembered one more metaphor, the metaphor is a sawmill. We're a sawmill here. The Government of the Republic, any government of the Republic, sends in nice round logs, or the bill comes to us, and we saw them as tables and cockroaches, or the laws go out of here. But as a young boy, my late father and I were still working at the counseling sawmill. The sawmill cuts hogs and hogs, hogs and hogs, there's not much time to think about anything, there's no time to do any analysis. These laws should have a slightly higher weight than those logs and beams that can go a little bit crooked. Everything that goes crooked here is not good for our country and our people. Maybe we should cut some things more carefully and think about it so that we can achieve more compromise on all these things in the next autumn session, so that it becomes better. But I'm good, 42 seconds left this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U181	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We have now come to the 383 amendments to the draft. The first amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission has been ignored. Boy, there's a lot of wishes in here now! Rene Chef. But once again, once again Henn Põllamaas takes what's his. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a pleasure to welcome you back here in this beautiful country and in such a busy atmosphere. I would ask for this amendment to be voted on on behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, and before that I would ask for another ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U183	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U184	Thank you. I'm almost saying the same thing as Henn Põllamaas, but not exactly. I ask for this amendment to be voted on, but not before a break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U185	Got it. Thank you. But since recess was requested, as manager, I have to take it in accordance with our rules of procedure. So break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U186	Break's over. I shall put to the vote the first amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U187	With the result of 5 votes to 41 and 1, the proposal was not supported. Amendment 2 has been tabled by the lead committee. Henn Põllaas, are you asking for a position? The position of the lead committee is to take full account of it. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U188	Thank you. I would also like to ask for the vote on this amendment, before the ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U189	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U190	Break's over. I shall put the second amendment tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs to the vote. The position of the commission is to take this fully into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U191	For 42, there is no one against and one abstention. The proposal was supported. Amendment 3 has been tabled by the lead committee. The position is to take this fully into account. Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U192	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. On behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I ask that we vote on this proposal, and before that I ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U193	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U194	Break's over. I shall put the third amendment to the vote. This has been put forward by the lead committee to take full account of its position. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U195	For 42, no objection and one abstention. The proposal was supported. Dear colleagues, we have examined the amendments. Thank you. The commission has proposed that the second reading be discontinued. But there is another suggestion, it is from the EKRE Group. The Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia proposes to interrupt the second reading of the Act of Collective Agreement and other Acts initiated by the Government of the Republic. Let us begin with the preparation of this proposal. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U196	Thank you for the floor, Chairman. We will vote on this proposal anyway, but I would like to ask you for ten minutes before that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U197	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U198	Break's over. I shall put to the vote the second reading of the draft proposal of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia to interrupt. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U199	One-to-three. The proposal was not supported. Now, that concludes the second reading and the sixth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U200	We are moving forward at a good pace to the seventh item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs. I am pleased to ask Vilja Toomas, Member of the Legal Affairs Committee for the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U201	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure 392 proposes that § 901 of the Code of Criminal Procedure be amended. The Legal Affairs Committee launched a draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure on 12 May. The initiation of the draft act has been pushed by a decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union, including in March, which found that the prosecutor's office cannot be regarded as an independent body for the purpose of granting permissions to request the data referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 of § 1111 of the Electronic Communications Act, and will be issued by a court. The Government of the Republic issued a favourable opinion on 392 including 24 May. The first reading of the bill took place in the Riigikogu on 31 May 2021. No amendments were tabled by the deadline of 3 June at 10 a.m. The Legal Affairs Committee asked about the draft opinion of the Supreme Court, county and district courts, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Estonian Bar Association, the Office of the Chancellor of Justice and the Faculty of Law of the University of Tartu. Pärnu County Court, Public Prosecutor's Office, Harju County Court, Estonian Bar Association, Supreme Court, Tartu County Court, Viru County Court, Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Association submitted opinions to the Legal Affairs Committee. The Committee on Legal Affairs prepared the draft for today's second reading at three meetings: on 3, 10 and 14 June. At the meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs held on 3 June, the chairman of the committee, Jaanus Karilaid, proposed that the opinions on the draft be heard at this meeting of the committee. There were nine opinions on the draft, as I said, five of which were more critical or included proposals. Tim Kolk, the representative of the Supreme Court, said that the draft could eliminate a narrow contradiction in the interpretation of the caselaw of the Court of Justice of the European Union between Article 15 (1) of Directive 2002/58 and § 901 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure in so far as it provides for the consultation of communications data with the permission of the prosecutor's office. At the same time, the Directive remains partly inconsistent with §1111 of the Electronic Communications Act and some related provisions which provide for the obligation to keep communication data in general. Markus Kärner, Deputy Chancellor of Criminal Policy at the Ministry of Justice, said that the problem of maintaining communication data is the most complex and frequent issue in the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Indeed, the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union are subject to restrictions according to which communication data must not be stored without distinction. Nearly 18 Member States of the European Union have so far failed to limit their own data retention regulations. In the future, this issue will certainly need to be re-examined. The representative of ITL, the Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Association, Kristiina Maasik, considered the draft to be a step in the right direction, but according to ITL, the requirement to retain communications data is a problem. Mrs Maasik also noted that a specific draft does not provide sufficient legal clarity as to when serious crimes are committed and when requests for communication data are permitted under the draft. The judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union makes it clear that communication data can be used to combat serious crime and to prevent a serious threat to public policy. Paragraph 1111 (11) of the Electronic Communications Act referred to above, which creates a broad catalogue, is also in question. On this basis, many institutions can make inquiries outside criminal proceedings, starting with the Environmental Board and ending with, for example, the Financial Supervision Authority. Advisor to the Legal Affairs Committee Carina Rikart introduced the opinion of the Pärnu County Court. In its opinion, Pärnu County Court has dealt with § 901 (4) of the Code of Criminal Procedure in its original draft, which provides, instead of "serious crime and its nature', that requests for communication data covered by § 1111 (2) and (3) of the Law on electronic communications may be made only to persons suspected or accused of preparing or committing a criminal offence referred to in § 126 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure and to persons directly involved in the act of suspicion or charge. Paragraph 126 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure refers to the criminal offences covered by the Penal Code, in respect of which surveillance operations can be carried out. The Pärnu County Court has proposed adding a new paragraph 5 of § 901 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which proposes the most important points that must be included in the permit. As a matter of principle, the judge should be instructed on the basis of which the authorisation can be granted. This is in particular the volume of data, the period of data to be collected and the purpose of the operation. Ms Astrid, President of the Harju County Court, said that Harju County Court had an additional remark that the explanatory memorandum to the draft had to be supplemented by an addition to the implementation acts needed to be amended. Since the number of judges is provided for in the Regulation of the Minister of Justice, an increase in the number of judges should also provide for an amendment of that Regulation. He said that, in other respects, he maintained his previous position that it was necessary to provide either for a specific catalogue of the seriousness of the crime in which the act may be carried out, or to exclude the "gravity and nature of the crime" from the draft text at all. Elmer Muna, the representative of the Estonian Bar Association, also welcomed the criticism of the draft by the courts and, from the point of view of the Court of Justice of the European Union, it is mainly a matter of guaranteeing the fundamental rights of people. The Court of Justice of the European Union has clearly criticised the fact that communication data may not be collected or stored in this way and that communication data permits may not be issued in this way. The leading state prosecutor, Taavi Pern, said that the prosecutor's office supported the bill. The draft resolves at least the problem that the prosecutor's office is unable to continue with the authorisation of calls at the moment. Mr Pern also said that it was reasonable that the problem should be dealt with in part. The Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Jaanus Karilaid, proposed to continue the debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs on 10 June and to set up a working group with the participation of those who have submitted the above-mentioned proposals and opinions. By the meeting on 10 June, this working group had prepared the original amendment, but I will present the final amendment rather than to the minutes of 14 June. Ms Rikart presented what had happened in the working group and said that the group had a strong view that the list of crimes for which requests for communication data could be made should be narrowed. The working group based its views on the Pärnu County Court, which also refers to the crime catalogue, where surveillance activities can be carried out and which would also justify requests for communication data. At the same time, there is also a compromise proposed by Astrid, Chairman of the Harju County Court, that, in the case of crimes not covered by § 126 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the possibility of making requests for communication data is exceptional if justified by the gravity and nature of the crime and if the request does not unduly infringe the rights of persons and is indispensable for the purpose of criminal proceedings. This proposal, too, has been further rewritten that the order of the court must contain the data to be collected by the request, the justification for the collection of the data and the period for which the data are requested. The committee then held a debate where representatives of both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior stressed that they would rather support the initial version of the draft. The Commission decided that we would give the working group another weekend to review the clarifications and wording and come back to the final amendment to be finalised by the Committee on Legal Affairs at its meeting on 14 June. We then needed to decide on a proposal to discuss this draft at second reading on 15 June and to ask the Bureau to change the time when documents were available. Jaanus Karilaid suggested that the Bureau be allowed to submit documents by 5 p.m. on 14 June. It was unanimously supported by the Commission. Since I am running out of time, I will say briefly that on 14 June...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U202	There's almost ten minutes left.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U203	Oh, I was wrong about our time. Then I will present this amendment to you calmly. By 14 June, the working group had indeed made its corrections and I will present the new, amended proposal. The amendment amends § 901 (2) and now paragraph 2 looks as follows: "The investigating authority may, at the request of the prosecutor's office and with the permission of the investigating judge in pre-trial proceedings or with the permission of the court, request the electronic communications undertaking to consult the electronic communications company on the data listed in paragraphs 2 and 3 of § 1111 of the Electronic Communications Act other than those mentioned in subsection 1 of this section." Paragraph 3 reads as follows: "The request provided for in subsection 2 of this section may be made in the case of a criminal offence referred to in subsection 2 of § 1262 of this Code and where this is strictly necessary to achieve the purpose of criminal proceedings. In the case of offences not listed in the list, a request for communication data shall be permitted where this is strictly necessary for the purpose of criminal proceedings and justified by the gravity and nature of the offence and where the request does not unduly prejudice personal rights.'; Paragraph 4: "The request permission shall indicate: 1) the data which may be collected by the request; 2) the justification for the collection of the data; 3) the period for which data may be collected." Paragraph 5 states that "[t]he order of the investigating judge and the order of the court to rule on the application of the prosecutor's office may, at the request of the prosecutor's office, be drafted as a headline.' and paragraph 6: "In cases of urgency where it is not possible to formalise an investigative judge's or court's authorisation in due time, the request referred to in paragraph 2 of this section may be made on the basis of the permission of the prosecutor's office, given in a manner which allows for reproduction and which contains at least the information set out in subsections 1 and 3 of subsection 4 of this section. In such a case, a reasoned request to the court must be made within the first working day following the request for authorisation. The investigating judge shall decide on the admissibility of the request by means of a regulation which may have been drafted as a headline at the request of the prosecutor's office. "This is the content of the amendment accepted by the Commission. The Commission also decided, at its meeting on 14 June, that the issues that remained open to the collection of electronic communications data in the wider sense of the Directive would be returned in the autumn and that changes to the Electronic Communications Act would probably also be needed. That's all I have right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U204	Thank you very much. You have questions too. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U205	Honourable waitress! You can see that these permits are going to be needed quite spectacularly there. How much was discussed in the Commission? How much is it gonna cost? And in the state budget, there must have been some kind of funding, right? I don't remember what that was.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U206	Thank you. The prosecutors have issued these permits about 3,000 a year. The judges have predicted that if authorisations are now granted with the permission of the prosecutor and the court, the number will probably decrease and will also decrease due to the fact that permits can now only be issued for serious crimes. But the money you're asking about is in two stages. The county courts have asked for more than six investigating judges, and the sum of six judges per year was, if I remember correctly, EUR 800,000 per year. I can look exactly at it, but I think it was EUR 800,000. The explanatory memorandum states that these funds will be included in the budget for the following year. And for this year, we can already see that we will not be able to adopt this law tomorrow, as originally planned in the Commission. Today is tomorrow, perhaps the day we had to go to the third reading. In such a case, the courts will also not be able to announce the competition for new judges quickly, and the financial requirement for this year will probably not be 800000, but much less, and these funds will be found within the framework of this budget from the Ministry of Justice's budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U207	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U208	Thank you very much, manager. Good waitress! I just realized from your answer that maybe it overlaps partially with my question, but that is why I am asking you over, just in case. You can also repeat or say that overlaps. In general, when you look at those interest groups who assessed this draft, I understood, or at least I got the impression that it was negative, it was positive, but it is striking that the courts themselves gave a positive opinion on the draft. But there is now one exception, the Viru County Court, who issued a conditional assessment. And this conditional assessment was that, although they did not make a direct complaint to the draft law, they pointed out that the additional posts needed to implement the draft had to be created. Is there some overlap between the previous question and my question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U209	I think you're reading the wrong sentence. In general, the county courts need six investigating judges, together with the Advocate General and the Advisers. And that amount, indeed, I found out, is less than EUR 800,000 a year. They'll mention it. Four of these six judges go to Harju County Court and the rest go to other courts. I cannot tell you exactly whether the need is at the Viru County Court or at the Pärnu County Court or at the Tartu County Court. I don't know exactly where they're needed. I don't know if you even know where you need them right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U210	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U211	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! The Court of Justice of the European Union acknowledged that the prosecutor's office cannot be considered as an independent body in relation to requests for communications data. That's why we have this change on this table. Why don't you open up the content of the judgment on the basis of which the prosecutor's office is not independent?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U212	Yeah, I can start further away if you want. The Estonian Supreme Court issued a decree and asked the Court of Justice of the European Union for a preliminary ruling. This order of the Supreme Court resulted from a specific criminal case concerning the many thefts and burglaries of one person and the lawyer contested the use of the communication data on the basis of which those penalties were imposed. That's where the trial started. The Supreme Court was supposed to make a decision by the end of this week, but I don't know if he's done it right now. As far as the independence of prosecutors is concerned, the fact is that if the prosecutor asks for permissions himself and, at the same time, he is also in court proceedings, he is the lead judge, then that means that he actually uses his work, the same data that he authorised in the course of his prosecution proceedings. The Court of Justice of the European Union found that, in this respect, the prosecutor is not an independent judge; he cannot ask for and publish for himself. As a result, the independence of legal proceedings in a trial suffers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U213	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U214	Thank you, Mr President. A very honored waitress! The explanatory memorandum to the draft proposal, where the amendment to the draft is concerned, also addresses a very important issue such as the obligation for the court to assess the gravity and nature of the crime. It says here that case-by-case decision on the seriousness of a criminal offence would also not be procedural economical, as it would require both the prosecutor's office and the court to state their reasons for each case and to assess them in a situation where this could be evident. Now, my question is, can you also give concrete examples of situations where the gravity of the crime is obvious? And perhaps as a more important question, where does this line run between crimes, the severity of which is obvious and the difficulty of which is no longer apparent? Could you illustrate this with concrete examples?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U215	Thank you. I'm really not a judge, that's the question of the judge's judgment. But, as I told you here just before, we made such a choice in this draft with these amendments, so as to avoid individualising each time, what is a serious crime and what is not. We have based the crimes referred to in § 1262 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, i.e. the same crimes for which surveillance can be requested and requested. This is now the first choice. If it goes into that directory where the prosecutor can ask for permission to use the communication data, it is those for which there is little need to justify. But we kept it that way, too, because the judges themselves proposed that they also have this discretion, in which case some crimes are serious and some are not. This is a two-fold process where the prosecutor first has to make his request and justify it and consider it in the same way and find that, for example, it is a serious crime. Then, in turn, the judge will have to decide whether the prosecutor's request is justified or not, whether it is a serious criminal offence of the kind in which it is precisely the use of communication data that is necessary for the successful conduct of criminal proceedings. But I can't give examples, because I really haven't been a judge or worked as a judge to tell you what reasons the judges make their decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U216	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U217	Good manager! Good waitress! Good morning! My second question is very detailed. But the first one's a little crowd-enhancing. Did you discuss who the famous Viramaa robber was with initials H.K., who took away somebody's bankcard, for 30 to 40 euros, and cash for up to 2100 euros, and who managed to cut the wings of the prosecutor's office? This is the bill we are discussing here tonight. Did you guys talk about who the famous Virumaa highway robber is?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U218	Thank you. No, we did not really discuss the specific case and the specific persons. But, as I told you, this case really touched on the same thing, I don't know, a robber, if that's what you call it, yes. He really does have these initials.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U219	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U220	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'm getting a little confused with that logic. In cases of urgency where an authorisation is required, such authorisation may be applied for on a temporary basis at the request of the prosecutor. But here, for some reason, a point such as the justification for the collection of data has been excluded from the requirements. In general, upon request of this authorisation, it is necessary to indicate the data that may be collected by the request, the justification for the collection of the data and the period for which the data may be collected. Whose proposal has it been formulated in such a way that there is no need to state the reasons for the data collection in an urgent case? Who proposed this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U221	That is what the courts have proposed. The logical reason is that this is the case when, in fact, a very quick decision has to be made. For example, it is time-critical to obtain this information in order to proceed with criminal proceedings. In that case, the justification must be given on the working day following that on which the authorisation was granted. So no one's giving up the recital. However, for the time being, this authorisation is issued with the same two points that it is necessary to define the data to be collected and, secondly, the period for which the data are requested and that justification must be submitted to the Court within the next working day. And then the judge decides whether or not he actually accepts it and whether or not this information can be used in court proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U222	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U223	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I'm actually stuck at the same point Kert Kingo was just asking about. To me, frankly, it doesn't make sense what things may be urgent cases. The question is, if this authorisation is to be obtained, it actually always requires the existence of some kind of information that refers to some kind of crime. It can't happen overnight. And that is why I am now seeing a substantive back door from which this authorisation can be obtained without the court issuing a sanction on this. It's left free. Perhaps you can tell us what these urgent cases are in this procedural practice? In which cases can this authorisation be obtained only with the permission of the prosecutor's office?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U224	Thank you. We can raise here what they might be. Indeed, I am neither the investigator nor the primary conductor of these proceedings. I imagine there's time-critical data. For example, we have information that someone has called on the phone or that some, say, letters or emails have gone and that they need to get their IP addresses, we need to get their sources, which e-mails were sent to which email address, which phone the call was made from, and which phone. In some cases, I can imagine, there may indeed be urgent matters in criminal proceedings where it is important that these data are immediately available, so that no things are left unsolved, no crime scene suffers and remains unspoiled. However, we did not discuss such subtleties in the Commission in the work of investigators and in the work of practitioners.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U225	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U226	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I, too, thank you for your calm and clear explanations and answers. It's a pleasure to have this discussion when people are calm and practical. But here's my question. I believe that you discussed the practice of other countries here in the Commission. Are there any examples of this? How do neighbouring countries deal with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U227	Thank you. I have just responded to my colleague on the subject that when we talk about the independence that the Court of Justice of the European Union accused us of doing so, most countries are using exactly the same system that the prosecutor has to seek permission from the court and it is the court that allows communication companies to issue such data.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U228	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U229	Thank you. It states that communication data may be used even if there is no criminal offence on the list, but the gravity or circumstances of which justify the use of the communication data. Is there a list of such seriousness and circumstances? If there is no such list or clarification, it is very easy to exercise a certain discretion or, I can't say, a definition of the prosecutor.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U230	Thank you. I have already explained why this is not the case. The initial draft, which was prepared in cooperation between the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Ministry of Justice, had the principle that there was no catalogue. There is not a list of crimes for which this information can be requested, but it remains that the prosecutor must justify that this is a crime which he considers to be serious. Or maybe the kind that requires the use of this communication data. The court must decide whether the reasoning of the prosecutor's office is correct or not. But in the future procedure, we have come to compromise proposals that we at least narrow down cases where prosecutors and judges have to explain and explain everything. That there is at least a certain list that belongs to the catalogue of surveillance activities contained in subsection 1262 (2). And in the case of crimes that do not fit in, still leave the prosecutor and the judge the right to consider whether this is a serious crime or a criminal offence of the kind in which it is justified to use these data in criminal proceedings. But that list doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U231	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U232	Honourable waitress! Allow me to compliment you that at the night hearing you are, in any case, sharper than in many daytime sessions. You're obviously a night man. But I'm interested in the Chancellor of Justice's position. The Chancellor of Justice has recently been extremely passive when fundamental rights are actually restricted. He likes to deal with third-, fourth- and fifth-rate things. Was his position unambiguously supportive, or did he find any contradictions? I just see the problem that we already have limited judges' resources and that we can get five judges to scramble with them there, that is, there will be no reduction in the file lines elsewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U233	Unfortunately, we did address the Chancellor of Justice, but the Chancellor of Justice has not expressed his position until that moment. He will then perhaps publish it after the draft has reached the stage of the procedure in which we are going to adopt it. But the Chancellor of Justice has not given his opinion to the Committee on Legal Affairs. And second comment: it is not the case that we now take four judges or six judges and then they only start dealing with these matters. The judges are still burdened by all the judges, but it's like, let's say, total. It is simply the judges who have found that their workload is increasing and that they simply need so much additional resources. But it's not like now we're just gonna take exactly these judges and they're just gonna deal with the issue of these permits.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U234	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U235	Good manager! Dear waitress, Were you looking at or discussing such a thing as what this legislative amendment could bring to the budget financially?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U236	Thank you. I have already said this here, too, that it is EUR 800000 for a whole year, and it concerns the judges and the Registrar and the lawyers who work with that judge, these workers. Lawyer and counselor or secretary or whatever they call them. So this concerns the salaries of 3 x 6 persons per year.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U237	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U238	Thank you very much, manager. Good waitress! I'm trying to understand this a little bit, and maybe you can help me. When I look at the explanatory memorandum on the preparation for the second reading of the draft Code of Criminal Procedure, it is stated, among other things, that the Committee on Legal Affairs has decided to propose an amendment to the draft. This is then in cooperation and is listed in a series of institutions: Public Prosecutor's Office, Ministry of Internal Affairs etc., and at the end there is also the Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Association. Very good! I mean, where did the Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Association help to make this amendment, because when I look at the proposals made by the same Union itself to the Committee on Legal Affairs, there is some criticism here, but it is not about the Code of Criminal Procedure but about the general text of the Electronic Communications Act. And here are the shortcomings in Paragraph 1111 (11) of the Electronic Communications Act, but there is no indication of the aid that they have provided in this regard. How are they involved? It's a little confusing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U239	Thank you. I actually mentioned a little that we did not have time to deal with this in this short time. As Markus Kärner, Deputy Secretary-General of Criminal Policy at the Ministry of Justice, stated about the same problem that communication data may be collected or stored at all, it is a major problem in the European Union and there is no common position. At the end of the meeting on June 14, we agreed to come back to it in the autumn. The Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Association is also interested in this law, as their problem is that they must issue the necessary data not only within the framework of the Code of Criminal Procedure but also under the current Electronic Communications Act. In other words, the circle of questioners is so large, they gave examples from the Environmental Agency to the Financial Supervision Authority. Their concern is that their work volume has also increased. And they are interested in moving forward in this area and finding a better solution. But like I said, it's a very complicated and difficult road. So they joined and were interested to be in this process. But there are indeed no proposals in this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U240	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U241	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I come back to this clause, which says that in certain situations the seriousness of the crime is so obvious that it does not need to be further considered or justified. Don't you see a certain danger in that? The apparent severity of the crime is explained on the grounds that, for example, surveillance activities should be authorised without further consideration or justification. Correct me if I'm wrong. Maybe I'm too paranoid here, but it seems to me that it opens up the possibility of abuse by the prosecutor's office or by the court.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U242	Thank you. Well, in my opinion, or rather, I believe that Estonian courts are independent institutions, organisations. If there is a two-time filter between me that the prosecutor first has to justify why he thinks it's obviously a serious crime or the kind of crime for which the data is needed, and if, in turn, the judge analyses the prosecutor's application and makes his own considerations, then that is more likely that, as you call it, the thoughts of paranoia may not be quite adequate or, as I say, you do not have to be so afraid or afraid of them. It's given me confidence. As I said, I believe in the system of Estonian courts and their independence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U243	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U244	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! You mentioned earlier that the Chancellor of Justice did not express his opinion to the Commission, but the Legal Affairs Committee received opinions from the Pärnu County Court, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Harju County Court, the Estonian Bar Association, the Supreme Court, the Tartu County Court, the Viru County Court, the Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Association. What were their views?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U245	I introduced them a little in my report, but if you want, I can read them all to you. There's just so many of them, and there's just so many of them. I think I'm just gonna make a little bit of a conclusion. In general, the Pärnu County Court made the most detailed proposals, not only making criticism, but also proposing how to resolve them. And then it came to being that we use § 1262 (2). Secondly, that authorisation must specify precisely the information to be issued, during which period, etc. This was their proposal and it became the proposal that the Committee on Legal Affairs finalised as its proposal. The state prosecutor's office gave a supportive position to the draft that had already been at first reading; in his view, this could have been the case. The Harju County Court generally supported the solution proposed by the Pärnu County Court. Their problem, as I pointed out, was that Mrs Astrid Thing pointed out that there was a need to increase court resources. That was the content of their decision. The Estonian Bar Association had doubts about whether human rights would not be violated, whether there would be too much invasion of private life and whether sensitive personal data and personal data at all could not be damaged too much. They look at it from a man's point of view and from the barrister's point of view and from the lawyer's point of view. The DA's doing his investigation, he needs the data, he's looking at the other corner. That was the compromise between the two parties, between the prosecutor and the barrister, which we finally pointed out. Tartu County Court and Viru County Court. I'm about to check it out, I think [Tartu County Court] gave a positive opinion. Wait a minute. Yes, in general he gave a positive opinion and no other comments were made. But indeed, it also stressed what my fellow Member has already asked whether this additional resource is really needed by the courts. I told you about the D.A. that he gave a positive opinion. The opinion of the Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Association was also discussed. He touched on a slightly different subject, which we did not reach in the process of processing this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U246	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U247	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! What has been the attitude of the prosecutor's office to this new procedure? Are they satisfied with this? Do they not feel that their rights or opportunities are too limited? As well as the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union No C-746/18, which considers that the prosecutor's office cannot at all be regarded as an independent body on this matter. What do they think of all this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U248	As I said, the Commission needed to strike a balance between the two sides: on the one hand, to protect citizens' rights, and, on the other hand, to enable the prosecutor's office to move its process and procedure forward quickly. The prosecutor's office, of course, would have supported the initial draft, where no list or catalogue of these crimes has been provided. The D.A. would actually like that. But in the end, the compromise was supported by all parties, including the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice, who at the beginning were also of the same opinion that we should leave this list open, let the court and the prosecutor's office decide and consider which crimes are subject to authorisation and which are not. That's a good point!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U249	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U250	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You have formulated the same § 901 (3) in such a way that, in the case of offences not listed, a request for communication information is permitted if this is strictly necessary to achieve the purpose of criminal proceedings and is justified by the gravity and nature of the crime and if the request does not unduly infringe personal rights. I understand that these permits will be issued by the court when justified. How, then, did this text come about by an expression such as 'personal rights are not unreasonably violated'? This text is somewhat controversial. Can you tell or comment on where that came from?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U251	Thank you. This violation of human rights was an issue and a problem from the outset. However, this specific wording came in cooperation with this working group, which I spoke about, which included all these representatives, as well as, of course, the representatives and advisers of the Committee on Legal Affairs. That's where the wording came from. It is, above all, that the court, when it starts making its own decisions, would still know that it is an important component that it should also take into account and consider when making its decisions. But it's come from a joint working group of prosecutors' offices, barristers' offices, courts and counsellors of the Legal Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U252	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U253	Good manager! Good waitress! I have this question that the catalog of § 1261 of the Penal Code is quite thick. Would you mind opening up a little bit how much you discussed this catalog to take and leave. If you look at the current Penal Code, there's still a pretty tight list.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U254	Thank you. In fact, we are talking about § 1262 (2). And no, we didn't specifically dissect crime by type of crime, there was no such discussion. This is a specific list that exists in the Penal Code. Please do and read this section. We didn't start to dissect it, to take it from here, to leave it there was no reason, no reason, no need.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U255	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U256	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I must also congratulate you, because you are another person, next to Kristen Michal yesterday and today, who can also hold a parliamentary debate. Thank you. But my question still comes from the same back door, I don't know if you remember what I said about personal data. The subject is that, in the light of the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which is also in line with Article 8 of the European Court of Human Rights and § 26 of the Constitution, which require that the grounds for intervention in a person's privacy must be foreseeable in the law, I imagine, and I think it is also justified that the gravity and nature of the crime should be regulated in the law. I understand there are things of different gravity. It's obvious that we're not gonna collect personal data here because of some jam theft, it's gotta be some kind of first-degree crime, I imagine. This could and should be the case, because otherwise, say, the external facade is beautiful, we have adopted it, applied it to the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, but in fact, the back door still exists with these data.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U257	Thank you. Indeed, there were all kinds of opinions on this issue in the Commission. Indeed, it was also said that we call a serious crime only crimes of the first degree. Then it was said that we had crimes divided into crimes and misdemeanors. We exclude misdemeanor and give the right to use this communication data for all crimes. And we also discussed the fact that, in fact, the term'serious crime' has not been defined in the European Union as a whole either. That's how we got to the fact that we took the same paragraph that we're talking about all the time, § 1262 (2) that delineates certain cases where the judge and the prosecutor do not always have to justify that this is where the data can be collected. Yes, the term "serious crime" is not specifically defined. And this list could not be proposed by anyone in the Commission's debate. But I said that when you say "back door," there were also suggestions that if there's a crime, we'll call it a crime, and then we'll get all the data. That's right. It's actually restrictive of what we've done here, compared to the initial thoughts.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U258	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U259	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I might continue a little bit with Mr Grünthal's question and apologize in advance if I ask you to go a little bit on the slippery path of speculation. The initial reactions of the prosecutor's office to the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union were, apparently, quite painful. They claimed that this hampered their work, made investigation more difficult, etc. And now, in the opinion sent to you by the Commission, they are quite gentle and agree with that. Is this, on the one hand, a hopeless capitulation to the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union? Or, when they returned to Mr Grünthal's speculation, they agreed so easily precisely because they saw some back door out there?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U260	It is indeed speculation and I cannot speculate with you. Let it stay the way it is. As you said yourself, the DA's office agreed to this compromise and let's move on. By autumn, we still have some issues up, we will continue to discuss these issues, like some principles of the same electronic communications law, but not only. We fixed some issues at the committee meeting on 14 June, which we will continue to discuss, and perhaps new ideas will arise, and we will come before you by some other law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U261	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U262	Thank you. Dear waitress, There have been a lot of things going on here, but could you please sum up the effects of this law once more, very briefly. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U263	For one thing, there may be three kinds of effects. The courts and the prosecutor's office are directly affected. This is the direct impact that it affects and affects. Then the part of the state budget is affected by the need for additional resources. But I think once again the population, the people who have suffered from crimes, they get faster and better investigations, and the process goes faster because it is possible to use this data. So here I think there's a variety of effects. But once again, I will give the previous colleague another thought, another speculation. In fact, in the current situation, the problem with the prosecutor's office is also that they will not be able to issue these permits at the moment if we cannot deal with it quickly and there is no back door there. These are not speculations.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U264	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U265	Thank you. Here I read such a very funny thing, I'd say, talk. "In an urgent case... " I'm skipping "... is possible in this section... "• etc. "... a request shall be made on the basis of an authorisation from the prosecutor's office. " It's already a very suspicious thing. But then comes the ridiculous thing: "On the first working day following, a reasoned request must be submitted to the court to make the request admissible. " Well, what is it now? After all, the trial is essentially presented with the fact that the case has taken place, put it in order, and there is nothing left to settle.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U266	It's not like that. If this information has even been used and the prosecutor makes a statement of reasons and if the judge does not agree, it is simply not possible to use it in judicial proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U267	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U268	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, The fact that we are debating our draft 392 today is due to the Court of Justice of the European Union's decision C-746/18. I ask whether there is an infringement procedure currently under way against Estonia, or if Estonia does not adopt this law. Is there some kind of sanctions that will follow us? How about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U269	Thank you. No, as far as I know, we haven't gotten that far, because that decision was also a preliminary ruling. By order, the Supreme Court asked the Court of Justice of the European Union for a preliminary ruling, because they themselves are dealing with the same initial case [to be indicated], what is it called? The case of the Virumaa robber, and in order to make that decision, they asked for a preliminary ruling, which should come in the coming days. But at the moment, there are no more infringement orders for us by Europe, as far as I know. I may be wrong, but I don't know.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U270	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U271	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! This judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union did not really deal with such a wider package; this proposal came from Estonia. What was the justification?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U272	Let's start over. You're also a member of the Legal Affairs Committee. You probably remember where it started. I'll tell you again. There is a process before the Supreme Court and I understand that the lawyer has challenged the fact that the data obtained from the liaison companies has been used there. The Supreme Court issued a decree and asked whether it was justified for prosecutors to [use communications data]. The lawyer contested that this authorisation should not be [used], the prosecutor's office is not an independent body in proceedings because it itself is also the prosecutor, and asked for clarification and a preliminary ruling. And then this preliminary ruling came that yes, indeed, in the case of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the prosecutor's office is not an independent judge.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U273	Tarmo Kruusimäe again, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U274	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! I may have expressed myself badly, but I wanted to say this: after all, it came from Estonia that the list could be much longer, because if we now take what the Court of Justice of the European Union is based on, there were serious crimes in particular. What's the point? Is it possible for the DA's office to carry out procedures more easily, that palette would be wider? Is that the correct interpretation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U275	I'd say the other way around. After all, we have come to the conclusion that, in fact, from the original draft, we have reached a narrowing and left only in exceptional cases the judge and the prosecutor's office to decide for themselves whether this is a serious crime or not. As you remember, the Committee on Legal Affairs failed to define the term "serious crime" in its wisdom.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U276	Okay, but now we're out of questions, thank the waitress! And we can go to the negotiations. There are a lot of words in the negotiations. First, Henn Põllaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U277	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Vilya, I thank you from the heart for such late hours of the night, or very, very, very good explanations given in the very early hours of the morning, indeed very constructive and thorough explanations. Indeed, quite rarely can such good explanations of questions and answers. But then we are discussing, yes, the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, which talks about granting permissions to request electronic communications data and its legitimacy. In this draft, they are called communication data, but in general, such data are also known as metadata. And these metadata do not contain phone calls because the court already had to grant permission to monitor phone calls, but the metadata contain information that is not about the content of the call, nor about the content of the call, but all other [data]. According to this, you can position the person where he went and what he did. The prosecutor's office has really taken on this right to grant permission to monitor these metadata and access their metadata, and often so that people themselves will never know about it. This is indeed a violation of fundamental rights. This process went on here, there has also been talk of one such court, perhaps you will remember that there was once a woman, if I am not mistaken, who got caught stealing dog sausage, he had also done other robbers, this dog sausage cost about five euros. And in order to identify, prove, admit that he was the criminal who went shopping and stole all sorts of things, the prosecutor's office gave permission to track him or investigate his meta-data for practically a year. Its lawyer challenged and, of course, went on to the Supreme Court until it reached the Court of Justice of the European Union and it was then recognised that the prosecutor's office could not be regarded as an independent body that could grant such permissions because it itself is a pre-trial investigator and a completely direct interested party. But in fact, the independence of the prosecutor's office is a much wider issue than just this issue of metadata. In often very many cases, the question arises of whether this is a legal cull or a political bias, as this independence seems to be completely lost. But I'd like more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U278	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U279	Thank you. Let me give you some examples, which are actually known to us. For example, the public interest of the prosecutor's office. Once Siim Kallas was on trial with a $10 million case, and then the case was closed. Siim Kallas was not acquitted, but it was found that there was no public interest. There was no public interest in Mary Kross before the previous elections, who gave false testimony as if she and her dog had been attacked by some Erekians. He got caught with it. This case certainly smeared EKRE's reputation and influenced the outcome of the election. The public interest was very high, but the DA's office found no public interest, and the case was closed with an oportunity. But at the same time, there was a very high public interest when some random Tartu girl, drunk, fell off her nose and claimed to have been beaten. Turns out it's a lie, too, but he got a criminal sentence. There are many other things that have to do with us. For example, the non-initiation of proceedings against Indrek Tarand, who invaded the scene at the EKRE demonstration and began interfering with the demonstration, ripped off the microphone, refused to give it back, and the trouble was up to heaven. When the EKRE then brought proceedings against Tarand, it was not admissible. However, Indrek Tarand's action was brought, who found it wrong when the EKRE figures, based on their experience and recognition, claimed that he was drunk. He filed the case and started the proceedings. I'd say I have so much experience in life that I recognize a drunk person when I look into his face and I see his eyes and I smell the smell of alcohol in his mouth. But if the court says it doesn't cost anything, the word of Tarandi, who didn't have any documents to show for it, even though he claimed to have passed the examination, his word is stronger, then I see a completely obvious bias here. We also know very well the story of the trial against our member Marti Kuusik, when the Court of First Instance declared null and void the permission of the Viru Prosecutor's Office to carry out illegal surveillance. Over the years, we have all witnessed the leak from the prosecution's office of all kinds of documents and records of phone calls and other materials... [[The manager's calling from the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U280	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U281	... and the only reason for which, by looking at the side like this, has been precisely the bias of the prosecutor's office in order to achieve the public...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U282	Time, Henn!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U283	... to create a certain background for someone. So the bias of the prosecutor's office is a very, very big problem that should be resolved if we want to be a rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U284	Thank you. We're trying to keep track of time. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U285	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Good morning! The ping-neighbor here was talking about a woman, a small-time girl, and a kidnapper for dog sausage. I have a very interesting document in front of me in Case C-746/18 of the Court of Justice of the European Union! There were 42 representatives from different countries: one from France, nine from France, five from Latvia, one from Poland and one from Finland, seven from the United Kingdom. Me and this Viramaa highway robber, as I said, but the penguin fixed that it was a dog sausage thief, in any case someone with initials H.K. We're talking here, and my penguin guy was talking about the DA's office, how his wings should be clipped and checked. We have also talked about this several times in the previous composition with my colleague, Mr Gräzini. But now it turns out, you see, some Viramaa thief is doing the job, at least part of it. He has already cut off the wings of our prosecutor's office on these metadata, the location and movement of [data]. But for the sake of protocol and perhaps for journalists and those who are interested in the way life is going, I'll tell you a little bit about what this H.K. did. He wasn't a petty bull at all. He had stolen several movable items worth EUR 3 to 40, cash amounting to EUR 5 to 20, maybe it was dog sausage up to EUR 2,100, he had used a third-party bank card, thereby causing damage to the person amounting to EUR 3941. Also, when she was a woman, but women can also be violent when they use violence against someone on the move. So this great Viru blood doesn't shake. But the thing. The result is what has been said here, and I will not repeat it. But this case is very interesting, it's also instructive to read. This is a 15-page long text as resolutions and points that consider the use and legitimacy of both location data and mobility data. It also reveals, for example, that our legislation, the law on electronic communications, has been reviewed, and it shows what is being recorded on all our mobile phones and, if necessary, is being demanded. Well, now, thanks to this Viramaa kidnapper or dog sausage thief, the prosecutors find it much more difficult to get this data: that they themselves investigate, lead the investigation and get the data themselves. Now we have to start hiring investigating judges here and probably spying on volume and freedom and watching will definitely decrease, as I heard here. But for the record, what's being collected about us. Ten things in the Big Brother's game. First, caller's number and client's name and address. Second, the recipient number and the name and address of the customer, one year is retained. The third number, and the name and address of the customer, selected in case of use of the additional service, including the channelling or transmission of the call, shall be retained for one year.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U286	Peter, do you need more?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U287	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U288	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U289	Fourth, the date and time of the start and end of the speech. Fifth, a used telephone or mobile phone service. Sixth, caller and receiver international mobile phone identification. Seventh, caller and receiver international mobile terminal device identifier. Eight, cell code at the start of the speech. Ninthly, data identifying the geographical location of the base station by reference to the cell identifier during the period during which the data are stored. And in the case of an anonymous prepaid mobile phone service, the date and time of initial activation of the service and the cell identifier in which the service was activated. So, in short, we in the Riigikogu have tried to control the prosecutor's office a little, because, indeed, no one controls the prosecutor's office. But now the thief or thief of Virumaa's dog sausage has succeeded, he has been more powerful than we have here in the Riigikogu, more powerful than Professor Gräzin and many others. It's positive, and I think he could even get a statue somewhere in Virumaa. It is often the case that those who think they are big cannot do what a single person, even if he steals a sausage for a dog or takes a bank card from someone with power. And maybe the law and the whole picture isn't as wide as we have here. So this is my little fineness for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U290	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U291	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Comrades insomniac! With this bill, I'd rather be amazed at a number of things that I bring out. First of all, if you have noticed, today is the second time that we are discussing a draft that is due to a court settlement by the Court of Justice of the European Union. So the method is that the Court of Justice of the European Union makes some kind of decision or a preliminary ruling and then we wake up here and in one or two months the law is quickly passed. Well, I must emphasise once again that this is obviously an unreasonable legislative process in this case. And the reasons why this is unreasonable are, of course, many, including the fact that today we are under the influence of the Court of Justice of the European Union, but perhaps not tomorrow. But these are the kind of perspectives that may not be very appropriate to discuss right now, but I am saying that this excessive haste is not reasonable. What's going on here? I have to say, in itself, I really like the approach of Peter Ernits when he was talking about dog sausage and influencing it. Just as I actually like Leo Kunnas's examples or comparisons with the sawmill. When we listened to this report here, when Vilja spoke, the questions he answered, I can tell you that there was a great danger. The danger is that we are again working on the sawing of a small sausage, which is not really the beginning, the middle or the end of the solution, but, in fact, it is an essential substitute, which may not even have to be done. When we look at the statement made by the Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Association in developing this same bill, Vilja also said that these proposals were very important, very good, but they simply could not deal with it. Why were these proposals not dealt with? Why couldn't they be involved in this process? Just because there was no time. That's the rush. But did we have time or did we not have time? Let's see a little interesting nuance about this thing. Obviously you all know and know well our well-known Estonian legal scientist, a European judge, a judge of state, Uno Lõhmus, who has discussed exactly the same thing on the pages of our magazine Juridica Abstract. And here Uno Lõhmus has pointed out some nuances that show that the thing that has been done quickly for us, now rushed, is actually an old-old thing that has been known a long time ago. We could, in principle, have dealt with this same issue since 2002, 2003, 2013. And let's say not only this bill with itself, but with the problems it's raised from. Uno Lõhmus has come to a conclusion in the analysis of the same judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which is about in the wording that the impact of the assessment of the independence of the prosecutor's office goes beyond the supervision of the use of electronic communications, traffic and location data. The assessment shall have an impact on the granting of authorisations for surveillance activities and on their... I'll take another minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U292	One minute more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U293	... the granting of authorisations and the monitoring of the legality of these operations. It is possible that not only the revision of the Prosecutor's Office Act, not only the revision of the Penal Code, but the whole reform of the Code of Criminal Procedure, is indispensable. A simpler way could be to authorise a surveillance operation and to put monitoring of surveillance activities before a court or a special committee to be set up, which would be independent in its activities. So what I'm trying to say is this little sausage slice we saw in a hurry here may not be the result we'd like. And we have a much bigger job ahead of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U294	Reuben Kaalep, please! Eight minutes in total, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U295	Honourable Riigikogu! This is a very important issue. First of all, I must commend my previous speakers, Henn Põlluaasa, Peeter Ernitsa and Paul Puustusmaa, who very well summed up this round of topics from different facets. And maybe it would be difficult for me to add something to them. In the past, however, we did not have a very interesting discussion on history. However, with the urge and demand of the audience, I would continue to give us a very important and inspiring overview of how unemployment was fought in Estonia in the 1920s and 1930s. Emergency work organised by municipalities and public authorities and, to a small extent, by private companies became the dominant tool to combat unemployment. They were organised between November and April in a period where unemployment was the highest, since there was a break in seasonal work in agriculture, construction and certain industries (brickstone, lime, cement, sawmills). As the state did not have the means to organise emergency work to the extent that all jobseekers registered on the job exchange could be employed, the order of placement was determined. To this end, the unemployed were classified into three categories. The first was the male and female unemployed who had a family to support. In the second category, the individual female and male unemployed who were dependent on a spouse were classified. The third category consisted of a few male unemployed women and married women whose spouse was able to work. Priority was given to work for the unemployed in the first category. In the event that the amount of work allowed it, the second and third categories of unemployed persons were to be put into employment. In practice, employment for the last two categories of unemployed was close to zero due to the small volume of emergency work. In December 1925, there was a locality censorship to get into emergency work. Only unemployed people who had maintained an apartment in the city for at least one year could be assigned to emergency work. Individuals and those who had no survivors were advised not to be employed at all by the Committee on Combating Unemployment. These requirements narrowed down already the opportunities for employment through work exchanges. From January to May 1925, the average number of jobs in emergency work was 51.7%, in the same period in 1926 37.9% and in 1927 34.2% of the total number of jobseekers registered on job exchanges. However, most applications for employment were rejected. Since relief work mainly involved soil work, it was mainly men who found use there. The government of Jaan Tõnisson, the State Elder, who took office in December 1927, considered increasing the employment rate of residents through economic development as one of its priorities. On 12 January 1927, the Head of State called for a broad-based consultation in order to determine the possibilities for the development of the various spheres of the economy and the creation of new jobs. The members of the government and the Riigikogu, representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, farmers and cities and others took part. At the meeting, the idea remained that the import of imported goods and the production of the same goods in Estonia should be restricted, as far as possible, to increase export production, to grant public orders to Estonian companies, to restructure the activities of labour exchanges, to place greater emphasis on vocational education and the like. However, the development of concrete measures was not achieved. In the summer of 1929, officials of the Ministry of Labour and Welfare visited Latvia, Poland, Austria, Denmark and Germany to familiarise themselves with the activities of labour exchanges in other countries and with the measures taken to reduce unemployment. The high economics prevailing on the world market in the second half of the 1920s enabled Estonia's industrial and agricultural exports to increase significantly, giving the opportunity to create new jobs. Therefore, there was no need for special measures other than the traditional emergency work during the spring winter. In 1930, when the global economic crisis began to affect the Estonian economy and as a result of the contraction of production, the number of unemployed registered on the labour market increased rapidly, the state increased the amounts for emergency work, but also made the conditions for access to emergency work more stringent. According to the Circular of the Ministry of Education and Social Affairs of 26 November 1930, only unemployed people who were citizens of the Republic of Estonia could be sent to emergency work by the labour exchanges for at least one year and worked for at least 12 weeks during the last year, except for emergency work, without working for at least one month. If the unemployed was married, the spouse's income per month was not allowed to exceed 25 kroons. Due to the limited volume of emergency work, the job placement was preferred to the unemployed, who were supported by underage children and unable family members. The provisions laid down by the Ministry affected the labour market as a whole, and in particular the Narva region, where 15 to 20% of registered jobseekers were stateless. Since a large number of protest letters were received against the circular of the Ministry restricting access to emergency work, the Ministry softened the rules by allowing exceptions to stateless persons who lived in Estonia for at least 10 years. One measure to alleviate unemployment was to reduce working time in industrial plants to eight hours a day from 1 September 1931. This step was intended to increase employment by forcing workers to hire additional workers to cope with all the necessary jobs. However, a rather drastic measure was the Act on the organisation of service relationships for the purpose of combating unemployment, which entered into force on April 1, 1932, which provided that if both spouses are employed in a state or local government institution, including an educational institution, a woman must be dismissed if her husband earns at least EEK 140 per month in the city and 80 per month in the country. One person was banned from working in a state or self-government institution or in two fixed-wage jobs in an enterprise. The Act also authorised the dismissal of persons entitled to a pension from the state and local government service who had earned an old-age pension. The worrying situation at the beginning of 1932 forced a thorough analysis of the state of play and a search for escape routes. The Estonian Society of Economists announced a competition for competitions on "Extent of work, nature and possibilities for solutions in Estonia." Two of the eight works received by 15 May 1932, Richard Ring and August Gutmann's work, were judged worthy of the second prize and published as a book with the joint financial resources of the Ministry of Education and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Conjuncture Office and the Estonian Society of Economicsologists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U296	I feel like I have a request for a reply. Is that Paul Pulpland? Please, line.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U297	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am very pleased that Reuben mentioned my name, because now I can correct one of the misleading mistakes I made in my speech. Therefore, when I said that this judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 2 March could have been dealt with earlier, this problem story, since 2002, I actually misled a bit in that sense. Yes, in principle, Article 15 (1) of Directive 2002/58/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2002 relates to this, but, in itself, that this problem is now going to explode or could explode, it was not actually known until 2016 when Tele2 Sverige v Watson was judgment. After that, it was known that this problem had arisen. So for five years, we have been able to solve this problem in that way. But yes, it was only just now in a few months. Yeah, that's a mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U298	Let's continue. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U299	Thank you to the previous waitresses, because you have already opened so many sides that make you wonder whether this bill is still ready for completion or whether it should still be fried. But Paul Puustusmaa took the bull out of his hand and asked if we really had to do something again on the basis of a euro order, by the order of an institution still above the Supreme Court, as if we had no sense of our own. Now, that's the big question: do we need to have a higher person put in a scrap of mind far away, who needs to promote our pieces of mind on the LGBT issue and beat all the wonderful foreign wisdom into us like once upon a manor house with the industriousness? Does it really have to be that way? Of course, that doesn't mean we don't have a problem with the DA's office. Whoever gives a shit about reading the newspaper and meditating on his head will be in a violent situation, just as in January of this year, where the most important constitutional right was hijacked by the people: the right to vote in referendums. And even then came the carefree-faced defense policemen and the Attorney General, who said, oh, yes, it was an urgent day, we didn't have any days, not a month before or a month after, just-just that day, nothing to do. I don't know how many people believed them. In any case, Siret Kotka, vice-president of the Centre Party, did not believe them and confirmed in an interview with the Virumaa Journal that no, my friends, that was not the case, but that is why everything was done to avoid the referendum. I would say that the Vice-Chairwoman of the Centre Party is one of the most informed persons in the Republic of Estonia, perhaps even more informed at times than the Director-General of the Defence Police, because it is the Vice-Chairman of the Government Party then and now. Who am I supposed to believe? So this is the point of thinking about how we're going to do this except turn. Of course, entirely as a result of the work of independent bodies, entirely independent bodies. So we should also worry about any supervision of the prosecutor's office. If you go into history, it's not the first time. There was once a Attorney General Raivo Sepp who, by the way, was investigating a $10 million case. Yeah, that's what's left of the false report to the auditor. Under trial, of course, honorary chairman of the Reform Party. But according to what I know, he was very much influenced so that he would not be appealed. Yes, how do we know that our judicial system has always been better than Ukraine, which we are looking so arrogantly at today? But there's a few other cases that I didn't mention here. Florian Hartles a great warrior, a pram warrior, an imported pram soldier who put his child at risk in a demonstration. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U300	Three minutes extra time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U301	He put his child at risk. Nothing! No prosecutor's office, no one in the Republic of Estonia has ever heard of child protection. Nothing. And he goes and threatens the Lens portal, who published pictures of him and told him how he was waving a pram on Liberty Square. This is our impressive, highly impartial trial and prosecutor's office. Not to mention child welfare. So there's a reason to ask. And, of course, today is just about the passing of the Attorney General Lavly Perling. Is there any better proof of the insignia and bias of the prosecutor's office than a person who can't hold his breath in any way, that when his term of office is over, you rush into politics and show a fist to those who didn't like him when he was in office? Impressive, impressive. So it's clear that the current Attorney General is carrying the backpack Lavly Perling put on him. The loss of trust in the prosecutor's office is difficult after Perling's term of office and political rush. I'm afraid that's the case. It should be considered whether there should not be restrictions in such a position, such as in many companies, that they cannot rush into politics immediately, with suitcases and bags. Maybe this is a serious place to think in this republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U302	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U303	Mr President, good ambassadors and people who may be watching us by chance! The explanatory memorandum to this draft provides, as the first sentence, that the draft allows for greater independence and transparency in the execution of a request for communication data to be collected in criminal proceedings. The sentence is very beautiful, everything looks beautiful and honest, the purpose is clear. But when you look at the text of this draft, it is certainly not clear and certainly does not make the whole surveillance exercise, or eavesdroppings, that is, what has been meant by the surveillance exercise, more transparent. Let's see it first. The first mismatch is that there is a text here: the request provided for in subsection 2 of this section may be made in the case of a criminal offence referred to in subsection 2 of § 1262 of this Code. In the introduction to this draft, the sentence stated that the offences within which such a surveillance operation could be carried out would be better defined. I have now reviewed § 1262 and there was practically a full list of sections of the Penal Code. There were crimes against humanity and international security, crimes against international security, crimes against individuals, offences against health, acts of violence, offences against freedom, against sexual self-determination, against political and civil rights, against electoral freedom, against families and minors, etc., etc., etc. So, in principle, the whole Penal Code is covered, and so this statement that there is now a little bit of a limit and a little less of an option that can be used to eavesdrop the means of communication, that is not true. The second argument here is that in order to start requesting these communications data, to start searching for the communication data, it becomes more transparent and, let's say, more neutral, because now it can be done with the permission of the court. It's not just the DA's office anymore. It's a very good change, really. But here are the differences. Where the authorisation to request communication data is otherwise marked with the data that may be collected by the request, and in particular the justification for the collection of the data, which is undoubtedly the most important in that regard, and thirdly the period for which data may be collected, there are now cases of urgency. And in cases of urgency, it is understandable that yes, if there is a special situation at the moment that it is not possible to address the judge and obtain this authorisation through the judge, then directly through the prosecutor's office and with the permission of the prosecutor's office. However, for some reason, this is the most important point that this query should contain, i.e. the justification for the collection of data, deleted. In essence, it provides an opportunity to start listening to the means of communication without a reason for collecting the data. Just like that, there's gonna be a mood, and the next day maybe they'll reconsider and get the information they need, and then they won't turn to the court. And this is where I wonder what was really made more transparent with this bill. I see nothing more transparent here. On the contrary, a complex text has been made and, in essence, everything has been left unregulated, with the exception of only the part that now can be obtained with the permission of the court. At the same time, within this framework, I have the question that we have developed here in Estonia in such a way that in absolutely all crimes, the first act is that of eavesdropping the means of communication. Today's researchers seem to have no other way of identifying or identifying the perpetrator in criminal matters. However, it is also possible to collect a great deal of other evidence without the need to carry out surveillance activities without so much interference with fundamental human rights. I don't know where these new detectives are coming from, what their training is based on. There were times when we never had cell phones... Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U304	Three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U305	... and if it was not possible to perform such operations and then it was entirely sufficient to obtain fingerprints or footprints or DNA or fabric or fabric fibres or video recordings at the scene. Today, there are more witnesses, documents, or handwriting experts made or other inquiries into institutions. He did everything. But now they don't. In fact, with these permits, it is the case that a permit is applied for for one person for one purpose, for example, and then another ten people are put in it in a bunch that I would like to know about. The reason is that there is reason to believe that a person has an important role to play in this crime. That's how we're all being eavesdropped. Therefore, I do not actually understand the idea of this draft at all. If done, things should be done in such a way that they can be useful, not that a text is formed, which gives such a proud impression, but that the content of which is very, very questionable when you start to get a little more into it. I find it particularly amazing that the text of the draft text makes the following statement: "In the case of offences not mentioned in the reading, a request for communication data is permitted if it is strictly necessary to achieve the purpose of criminal proceedings and is justified by the gravity and nature of the crime and if the request does not unduly infringe the rights of the person. " The idea of the bill is that it must be justified and then, through the prosecutor's office, seek permission from the judge, and now there is still a way of unduly violating the rights of the person and doing so. To conclude, this is a reconfirmation that whatever good or bad intention we have to do with drafts is below the quality of the drafts in any way. The wording is confusing, there are many different interpretations here and they are not finite. That's not how we should make laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U306	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U307	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U308	Three minutes extra time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U309	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Dear listeners, who will also be watching here via TV screens, via the Internet! You see how happy we are, the work is on. Everyone's alert, the hall's full of people, making new laws. Half full. Is the glass half full or half empty? But as they say, it's not what I wanted to talk about, it's what I wanted to talk about. Yeah. I guess these personal data and communication data are some goddamn necessary thing, otherwise there's no way to figure this crime out, and there's no way to detect it. I remember here in the mid-1990s when I got into this world of criminal proceedings, not as a bad guy, but just in the part where I was pointing out a defense function, and then I had this ordinary landline in my office. I'm gonna tell you what I'm talking about, and I'm gonna hang up at some point, but you see, this tone isn't gonna go zero. Half an hour another time and sometimes 10 minutes and 5 minutes, and I can't tell you. So I called out the comm guy, and it dragged me to that closet and said, "You see, there's a bug in there that's gonna pick up everything nicely and neatly." But this is the kind of device that needs a little time to charge the battery, and it gets the battery power off the phone, so it can't start talking right now. Took his fingers in there and cut off a little bit, and the problem was gone. But of course my luck didn't last long. After a few days, the troubles started again. One minute I had a longer walk somewhere, for a month I was on a business trip somewhere, and then the head of criminal proceedings comes to ask me if you're not working anymore. I'm asking why you're asking me that. He: I don't know, I mean, I've never seen you again. I mean, what do you mean, I haven't seen it? I came to work, sat in my booth, and that's it. But the problem was, I stopped picking up the phone. And there was doubt about where I've gone. But I wasn't put in prison. I was just gone for other reasons. It's information that's at the price of gold. I remember the time I went to Patarei Prison to meet my clients and it was very interesting to see how the trivial approach had been. There was a table in the rendezvous room, and there was a wire running under the tableboard, so you realized that the whole conversation was being eavesdropped. If Kert Kingo had previously said how it used to be possible to manage without a cell phone recording or change anything, then in fact, in criminal proceedings, this opportunity has been used since the beginning of time. How, then, is this authorisation sought? I'd like to get back on the practical side of life. Here, too, the procedure has used the opportunity to continue this monitoring, and if someone is bothering to open the citizen's.ee portal and see who has looked at your personal data, then there is often either the PBA or the police who have looked at your data. Personally, I had a very interesting experience when, for some reason, every year on 2 January, my data was immediately reviewed, over 10 to 15 years. And then I got together with an older colleague who specialized in serious crime and he explained to me that at the beginning of the year, they're gonna take a secret surveillance permit like this to see what you're talking about on the phone or somewhere else, because you're dealing with the accused or suspect of a crime and maybe you're gonna get something funny or interesting through you. Fortunately, there has been such a case that the European Court of Human Rights has put an end to this joke and, in accordance with Article 8 of the European Court of Human Rights and Article 26 of the Constitution, it has been demanded that the grounds for interfering with a person's private life be visible in the law. Of course, such a decision created a real furore among both the prosecutor's office and the bartender's people, so what happens now that you can't listen anymore? There were some serious problems. And now there is a bill that seeks to comply with this judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. Kert Kingo talked about its fundamentals, there's practically nothing to change, and everything stays the same. And all the talk that's written here is actually one that gives you the opportunity to apply for that permission at absolutely any time. And if the court does not or does not wish to refer to the judge, it is probably necessary to address and submit this request, initially authorised by the prosecutor's office, then later it can be said that the need has fallen. But it's not like the information that's been received in connection with the request that's covered there, let's say, e.g. wiretapping or something else, has already been received. It's not if the judge doesn't grant permission, but the DA's office has given permission, and these records don't go away without a trace. No, they're gonna stay, they're gonna be saved. It stays in a black box that they can never actually use, I mean detectives and the DA's office, but they exist. They're like a Trojan horse, you never know when you might need these things. And here are the reasons for the hostage crisis. These things aren't exactly like that, so they can't get these things in that form. Of course, it tries to make the research facility look extremely lame, as if it were a single person involved in investigative activities. As far as I'm concerned, there's a house full of these people, and if one judge does one thing, there will certainly be other prosecutors, and especially in the case of a hostage crisis, the prosecutor will certainly be kicked in. So this is a bill that is a stranger to life and that does not really protect or change anything. We cannot support that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U310	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U311	Thank you, good vice chairman. The good people you're watching us, and, of course, all of our workmates, both in the hall and through these monitors. I have to say that this information about this court settlement came to me in a very different way, strangely, and it encouraged me. And there were two reasons. One reason was that I didn't know about, because I'm not at all in law. That data, metadata have been collected, and all companies have an obligation to keep them for one year. I think Kert Kingo said best, described this problem here, that this palette is so wide, that it is almost the whole penal code. But I'd like to remind you what the original bean was. And I'm absolutely different from Peter Ernits, who thought that some dog sausage thing made someone really happy somewhere. It wasn't like that. This data was recorded because we had a terrorist threat in Europe. And, of course, Estonia is not the only one free of corruption, but it is Europe as a whole where [corruption] is a serious crime to be free of corruption. Where did we get off this thing? I think there are no cases, but there are consciously [so done]. Because why would Maris Lauri be our minister of justice when he's actually a person with an economic background, isn't he? It was the first time he said that serious crimes were some serious crime. It was perhaps the Committee on European Union Affairs, perhaps Kalle Grünthal remembers, and we began to ask what are these strong crimes. There are serious crimes. It was about terrorism and corruption. After all, we had problems when terrorism was quite effective in Europe. Now the story of the dog sausage was that he complained there and found that the prosecutor's office was not independent. But it wasn't asked, or maybe the lawyer was a little weak, so listen, this dog sausage [stealing] isn't terrorism, a dangerous act for society. And, of course, if the D.A. had such a tool in place to write his own license and retrieve the data, then it was done quickly. Well, we understand that Poirot and all the other characters are book heroes, just like Sherlock Holmes and everything. That's where they started to rebuild that story backwards. In fact, there were people who looked, and they either figured it out or they didn't. Then, in order to fulfil this condition that the prosecutor's office is no longer independent and that [authorisation] goes to the court, the prosecutor's office may have made such a cry that now we have a very complicated one, and their tool was still on them, but now the court is just giving it. And this palette has now become legally significantly wider. I am reminded that in Europe, metadata were collected precisely because we had terrorism and great corruption. Now, for everything that Kert Kingo already read out there, he can get permission, and that's the way it's gonna be for the next day. That's what I was worried about. And another major concern is that we're leaking this data. And once it has been seen that citizen A and citizen B have been in one gym three times, because cell phones have positioned them there, and a couple of times they have already made phone calls that may have been mistakenly missed, and if this information leaks out, then the media actually makes estimates that these people are connected. All the folklores, you don't know what a villain is at a mass event next to you. Because, in fact, the press makes it, shapes opinion in society, and then according to the public interest, its absence or not, people are gonna be nailed to the wall. I'd take three minutes at that point.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U312	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U313	Peter Ernits won't be given it anyway. I wanted to give it to Siret Eagle because she was so busy, she couldn't answer anything. He was fast, he's long gone, he's not coming for that three minutes, and I don't think he's gonna get it either.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U314	I can't.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U315	Now, I got to thinking that maybe my whole guess is wrong, because I'm not a lawman, but there are a lot of similar people in Estonia who maybe see such constructions. Because it is not possible that there is only one dull type in Estonia, it is Tarmo Kruusimäe, and everyone else is sharp pencils, you can understand everything exactly in legal terms. When I think about it, the deal that came about was hard. Maybe it's more important to win that this clearance went to court from the DA's office, but we expanded it around and maybe we're going to narrow it down again in the fall, but maybe it won't. In any case, I welcome the fact that the Committee on Legal Affairs at least tried. And indeed, on Saturday and Sunday, two ministries argued with each other, and they reached an agreement. There are different arrangements. For example, today we have item 13, which is extremely surprising, the electricity market law. While I spoke earlier about another law where the interest of the Reform Party was much greater, in this 13th item, the electricity market law, the interest of the Centre Party is greater. Remember how the Centre Party proposed that this last bill be broken by showing teeth? In fact, the situation is that on the 13th item, the Reform Party shows teeth in a completely different way against them. And it turns out that if one of the ambassadors here thought who was useful and who was useless, right, we might be doing a favor right now, but I think it's the right favor. This service is for the Estonian people so that we do not put our own valuable log in that boiler for the power plant. But that's how he develops, so the medal always has seven facets. We see how we see it, but consider that this is my vision of the compromise that it was born there, and I think I may have a grain of truth, but the truth we will only know when it is explained to all of us. The people you're watching after this on the Internet, you understand or you don't understand, but it's 6:00 in the morning. At a time like this, a person who doesn't know law isn't the sharpest pencil. And frankly, this thing is suspicious, but I'm hopeful, at least because now he's got prox on trial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U316	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U317	Thank you. Yes, it happened that a good colleague of Tarmo Kruusimäe, with completely outrageous courage, used my name here in his speech, and I am forced to react immediately. Of course it was a little joke about this courage, he's also a brave man, so he's usually not afraid of anything. So there's nothing to be surprised about. But since Tarmo touched on my name in connection with the hearing of the Committee on European Union Affairs, there was actually a very interesting picture. Yes, indeed, the subject we are discussing here today, the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, we also had a fundamental discussion in ELAK. This topic arose there, and, well, it happened that after a while there will be such a message that now we will build and construct an insane supercomputer, where then Estonians will also be involved, who will deliver it-do it and where all the data will go in to get a superpowerful thing. And when I started looking into who owns it or who is the "main boss," I heard that the European Commission was. And then I ran into the flaps, and I said I wouldn't vote for it. Obviously, this bill is also linked to the creation of this super-powerful super-data base. And the fact that there was a setback from the European Court of Human Rights, and now they are trying to patch this place up, we cannot allow that. This draft must be specifically rejected, which violates the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U318	Peter Ernits!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U319	Thank you, good manager. My name sounded here early in the morning, and I think it is necessary to clarify that, when I said earlier that 40 judges from different countries were discussing the matter before the Court of Justice of the European Union, I was wrong: there were, in fact, 58 of them. And the composition of the Court: the Grand Chamber led by President Koen Lenaerts, Vice-President Rosario Silva de Lapuerta, Presidents of Chambers Bonichot," Arabadjiev, Prechali, Larsen, Judges von Danwiz, Safjani, Jürimäe, Lycourgos and Xuereb. So, in fact, in order for colleagues to understand, I am not going to read the representatives of the French, Latvian, Hungarian, Polish, Portuguese, Finnish and United Kingdom governments and the European Commission here. This is not a joke in the morning, but all these respected judges discussed this matter, which is why we, on the initiative of the prosecutor's office and Virumaa's sausage thief, have reached today's draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U320	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U321	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, Even those [colleges] who sleep but sleep so that one eye is wide open and one ear is stretched out from under the pillow to hear when the signal comes, then rush here to fight for truth and justice. But the fight for truth and justice has recently been very clear here: we are fighting against the deep state and for the rule of law, and they are fighting, on the contrary, for the deep state and against the rule of law. Because if we ask why we're doing this obstruction now, we're doing it for one very simple reason: we're protesting against the ABIS law, the Big Brother's law being brought here and forced by government departments. We warned you to push it through, but we're not gonna let our fight go, we're gonna proceed with the obstruction. And when you come with the following similar things, we'll do exactly the same for you. You need to know that the tank is hitting the tank barrier, the anti-tank ditch, and gets the anti-tank light on the left, right, front and rear. You must know that. You must bear in mind that this is not a walk in the sun, as American and British soldiers thought in 1943 when they invaded Italy from Africa. Oh, it's a walk in the sunshine! This walk lasted with heavy losses and heavy battles until the end of the war. There was no walk in the sunshine, and neither is it a walk in the sunshine. We now come to this specific draft. I do not really have [a great] to add to what has been said here by a number of speakers. It's the law of back door. This is the law of creating a yokk scheme, which is happening in Estonia on a massive and massive basis by a deep state for years. When we look at the trials that the prosecutor's office has initiated on the basis of materials collected in the surveillance activities of the defence police, we see that all of this is largely based on wiretapping, hacking and essentially illegal surveillance. And that's why these things have collapsed in court. Whatever decides on the presence of any war, the infantry, the infantry attack, and the taking of positions, that's not what they're capable of doing here. They don't have that human strength, they don't have that skill. And then they've taken it [keep it] that we're listening. Recording, hacking, picking up documents. And a really stupid story is what a lot of people are talking about: but I have nothing to hide, let them follow, let them listen! It's hidden because they don't eavesdrop on the phones, but they're listening to the phones. And think, ladies, for example, that you decide to spend moments of love, and you have a phone on that nightstand and that phone is being tapped, and all your sighs and whispers are there nice and easy to say from the phone. Isn't that mean? Isn't this your invasion of the private sphere? More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U322	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U323	But that's what they do. It is known from the case-law that these recordings have been listened to, there are all kinds of huddles and side sounds and household hunks, you cook there and you chuck with pots and pans. It's all beautifully recorded. That's how it works. There's no point in telling a stupid story that I have nothing to hide, let them listen if they want to. You don't want to be eavesdropped when you go to the bathroom and flush? You don't, do you? This is the most basic invasion of your private sphere. Really, what's criminal about you watering on that potty? There's nothing criminal about it. But it's demeaning to your human dignity. And that's not the rule of law. But that's what they do and their appetite grows. Their appetite grows. This appetite for growth has no end. I have a nice dog, a golden retriever. But I've read the warning about him: He can't keep a stop by eating. He's capable of eating himself up. The same applies to the deep state. They'll be able to eat themselves up, they'll never get enough of what they can find out about you. They'd also like to know how much dirt you have under your nail. Now, that's what they'd like to know, because maybe there's some sort of thing out there that maybe you've clawed somebody and there's DNA, alien DNA, which in some cases may incriminate you as evidence of your violence. Here is our Marti Kuusik. If they'd found a strip of her skin under her fingernail, it would have been evidence that she was violent. Look, we got it! It all sounds absurd, but it's not absurd. That's not absurd. This is the real life where the deep state takes over our lives. And we cannot allow that, because it is not the rule of law. The Reform Party will laugh at that. Of course he laughs because they are the instrument of this deep state, which ensures that the rule of law is an illusion. And we are the ones who fight from the body and from the soul, so that the rule of law is not an illusion, but a reality. So that we all have our inalienable human and civil rights, which will not be taken away from us by any kind of prerogative, such as this 392 SE. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U324	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U325	Thank you! I would like to say in the interests of protocol that the Fatherland also stands for the rule of law. Good people who are in the Ministry of Justice, please stand up for this rule of law, still stand up for civil rights. It may seem strange to people that we have the third draft law on electronic communications. Yes, I must admit that Kristen Michal and Vilja Thomas made a very good report, but more information is needed. You are not standing up for your own position of comfort, how it is easier to put charges together, but the most important thing is the citizen of the Republic of Estonia and its rights and then perhaps how you discover or will prove the guilt of the villain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U326	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We shall begin the examination of the amendments to draft 392. There is one amendment, it is from the lead committee, and the position of the lead committee is to take full account. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U327	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I ask that this amendment be put to the vote and, before the vote, I ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U328	Break ten minutes. Break's over. I shall put to the vote the first amendment tabled by the commission to take full account of the position. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U329	With the result of 39 and against 1 the proposal was supported. With this, we are now proposing amendments. examined. The commission has proposed that the second reading be stopped, but a letter has come again. The content of the letter is as follows: The Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party proposes to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Legal Affairs Committee 392. Henn Põllamaas has signed beautifully. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U330	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is true that the EKRE Group has proposed that the second reading be interrupted and I would also ask for a ten-minute break before this vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U331	Got it. Break ten minutes. Break's over. I am voting on the proposal of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia to interrupt the second reading of the draft 392. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U332	The proposal was not supported by 11 votes in favour and 41 against. And that is what has happened now that, after a serious debate, 392 SE's second reading has been completed and that the seventh item has been closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U333	Let's move on at a nice pace here. The eighth item is the second reading of the General Part of the Environmental Code Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act amending other Acts 292. It is unspoken to ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu by Yoko Alender, Chairman of the Environment Committee. Please! I'm sorry! A procedural question, Kalle Grünthal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U334	Thank you, Mr President. Do you mind reminding me here in the morning light how many questions can you ask?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U335	At second reading, as foreseen, two oral questions can be submitted to the rapporteurs. You can choose: for the first waitress, two or one and one. Until [two], there's "until" everywhere. Please, Yoko Alender, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U336	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Good morning. It's a new day. Let's keep going. You have before you a draft law amending the General Part of the Environmental Code and other laws. This concerns, in particular, the repeal of the Environmental Register Act and the creation of better solutions instead. The draft law amending the General Part of the Environmental Code and other laws was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 23 November 2020, but the preparation was indeed already carried out when Rene Koka was Minister of the Environment. The draft will update the procedures for handling environmental information in the databases and create an environmental portal bringing together environmental data. We have quite a few of these drafts. This indicates that the information society really needs to be implemented in law and that such an Estonian nature information system is created. So far, it has operated as sub-information systems in the environmental register, and now it is creating a single IT point of access to and interface with databases containing environmental information, which should be a "one-stop-shop" for a person, in plain language. There is a web environment that brings together all environmental data. The first reading of the draft decision was completed on 17 February, including. No amendments were tabled by the deadline, but there was quite a long and thorough work to be done by the Commission. That's why the time has gone. As a result of the Commission's work, it was decided to table 11 Commission amendments on the draft, which we will certainly be able to address here today. The Commission met on 22 February, 3 March, 23 March, 13 April, 1 June and 3 June this year for the preparation of the second reading. At the beginning of March, we had a proposal from the Ministry of the Environment to supplement the draft provisions with different laws: the law on atmospheric air protection, the Waste Act, the Industrial Emissions Act and the Water Act. On the basis of these, registrations will be made and will also be included in the environmental permit information system KOTKAS. You could say that KOTKAS is the main focus of this draft. On 1 June, it was precisely in the Commission that a position was drawn up on these proposals and it was decided to include them as an amendment by the Commission. The decision was taken in a consensual manner. On 13 April, a discussion was held on environmental information collection and management issues under the administration of the Ministry of the Environment. The [representatives] of the Ministry of the Environment and the Environment Agency were present as well as a consultant involved in the preparation of the draft. At subsequent meetings, the proposals sent to the Commission by the Ministry concerning the provisions of the Forest Act were discussed and the two topics that were in the air concerned the forest register and the statistical forest inventory. There were also quite a number of interest groups who approached our committee. To begin with, I will briefly clarify what has been asked about and why we in the Commission decided today to call the Minister as co-rapporteur. This is an important issue in the area of the environment, which concerns all forest information on our environment. Statistical forest inventory is a system in which Estonia has since 1999 been divided into a grid consisting of plots measuring the condition of our forest, such as the type of trees, the number of flatwood, the size of the increment, the amount of cut. There are a number of other aspects that are being examined. Some of these plots have been permanently one and the same since 1999 and others have been rotating or randomly selected new each year. A similar system is used in many parts of the world and on the basis of its statistical forest inventory, Estonia also provides its data for example in the LULUCF accounts for emissions trade in the land use sector. In recent times, some scientists and conservationists have been interested in finding out whether this forest statistics are reliable, and they have made inquiries during the whole debate on logging in society. The Environmental Agency, which is responsible for this SMI system, has found that the data on these permanent plots, if they were to issue these locations, would present a risk that these data would no longer be reliable. Even if no one goes there because of this knowledge to do more or less cutting, this risk in itself reduces this reliability in relation to these data and the Environment Agency has not issued this data. However, in turn, the Data Protection Inspectorate, who was also one of the parties involved in the Commission's proceedings, made an injunction and stated that it was necessary to determine in a special law why and under what conditions a restriction on access to these permanent sample locations would be imposed. That was one of the topics we discussed at length. We had scientists from the Estonian University of Life Sciences who were very concerned about the fact that, if this restriction on access is not imposed, the statistics are no longer reliable. On the contrary, scientists at the University of Tartu who were on the Commission once again made it very clear that researchers must have access to these data in order to carry out forestry work. The same view was taken by the representatives of the Estonian Nature Foundation, who were also present at the Commission in the proceedings. Finally, after long discussions on this issue, we reached such a compromise, and the Members of the Commission were all of the opinion that researchers must have access to the data, and an amendment has been tabled to this end, which says that under a data-use agreement, scientists must obtain this data for their own use of forestry research. I think it was very important, and it will actually ensure that it is possible to obtain information on whether this method of inventory is reliable, because it is the basis for a great many forestry decisions and if this so-called micro-infringement, as expressed by one Member of the Commission, is inside it, it will be of no use to anyone. This basis, which is created here today by these amendments, for researchers to receive this data, really allows independent parties to audit the SMI system itself as well. The second part of the amendments, over which there was a longer debate in the Commission, concerned the forest register. The Estonian Private Forest Association and the Private Forest Centre participated in the discussion and the problem of data that is visible in the forest register arose there. According to this new solution, many data will be included in the publicly visible data. However, the data which the Ministry treats as personal data, i.e. the data by which the size of the forest owner's assets can be estimated, such as the volume of felling in this particular forest land it owns, will no longer be immediately available. One of the reasons for this is that private forest owners are often approached by such automatic or robot inquiries, that certain hectares or areas with a certain volume of felling are taken out and that there are very strong sales offers. Originally, the Ministry's proposal was that it would have been applicable to both legal and self-employed forest owners, but as a result of the Commission's discussions, we found that legal persons are engaged in economic activities and that this is in no way deplorable for them. As a compromise, there was a proposal that forest owners could be free in their activities and maybe in the future the problem with these so-called raccoons, as is the name of the matter. Since this is indeed a rather specific draft, we also have a minister as a co-rapporteur today, but of course I am also ready to answer your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U337	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U338	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear waitress, The section "National forest inventory by statistical sampling method" of this draft indicates the reasons why the Environmental Agency refuses to conclude a data-use agreement. Point 1, unless it is satisfied that the data will only be used for the scientific purposes mentioned in subsection 8 of this section. Point 2, it is not convinced that the person wishing to use the data will take adequate measures to ensure compliance with the data restriction requirements. My question is: is this a very unfortunate wording, or is this law meant to make the subjective conviction of officials decide whether these data will be made available to universities, experts, researchers, etc.?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U339	Well, I think that conviction must always be the basis for decisions. In this sense, it is very clear what are the cases in which this agreement cannot be concluded. The word 'convinced' is not so competent as to say whether there are better wordings, but I think that the decision of consideration as such does indeed always exist for officials. But the fact is that this decision must be justified and there is a clear, quite specific list of the conditions under which this agreement will be concluded.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U340	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U341	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good Yoko, I'm a little confused about your good presentation, I realized there were a lot of interest groups and people involved. When I began to look at the opinions that have been presented, I can see that they have only come from the Ministry of the Environment and the Estonian Nature Fund. One comment is also from the Estonian Chamber of Environmental Associations. Where did the others go?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U342	No, in fact, it is that we were also written by the same scientists at the University of Earth, and since this process was quite long, all those who were listed by the honourable questioner were present in our discussions. For example, the Environmental Law Centre had a longer discussion of [the draft] compliance with the Aarhus Convention on the availability of environmental data. The Ministry did a long analysis of this. I would say that there was quite a thorough [debate], and actually I must say, of course, that this issue has also been of great interest to the nature conservation side, also outside these sessions, also at other sessions, and I think that the Members of the Commission are, at least I have had very many debates on this subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U343	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U344	Thank you. Good President! Honourable questioner! Oh, on the contrary, I'm sorry, waitress! Things are starting to get a little messy. It's a subject that's been burning up a lot of passion, and there's a lot of parties here, different parties. Does this law involve impact assessments? And if so, what are they like? Very briefly, perhaps.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U345	Thank you. The impact was discussed in the process of the Commission's proceedings and, above all, when it was the first more general meeting, with the authors of the draft, Rita Dosage and Uudo Timm. Surely one of the effects is that resources are needed for the IT developments that are needed here in order to create these registers. It also requires the workforce, the people who are implementing them, and let us say that this situation is certainly not ideal, but is moving in the right direction. The impact on people, of course, is that red tape is being reduced, as if there is one place where all environmental permit applications are made, registrations are being made. But if there is now such an impact analysis in the legal sense, I think you should ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U346	Siim Pohlak.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U347	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Every law still makes something better. Would I like to know what will change for the ordinary Estonian person? Some make firewood in their forest; another, a city man rarely gets berries or walks in the forest. What will become better for ordinary people in Estonia when this law is passed?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U348	Specifically for man, the most important thing is that of the different nature, environmental licenses, registrations, which are the basis for some activities, applications. There's gonna be a door for that from now on. There is one web environment, the same KOTKAS, where to do all these operations. Hopefully, this will increase the quality of the Estonian person's [life], that the state will simply take a little less time from him.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U349	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U350	Dear Chairman, Good Yoko! This register or this system will, of course, be a powerful tool in how to say, over the forest for accounting and all that. I've even had to go and talk to private forest owners about it because people are curious about how it's gonna work. There have also been a lot of questions about these raccoons, as you mentioned, who are trying to buy up the forest, and it is the small private forest owners who are trying to pull the skin over their ears. I have also tried to explain that it makes this thing even more certain that it is no longer as simple as this thing, but still, since there is one register, it is feared that this will make it possible to obtain them [data] more. How can you judge it again, even if it is to go to protocol, so that people are not afraid?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U351	Thank you, good questioner! I do not think that such offers can, of course, be ruled out until the end. Estonia is a small country and information about who owns the forest is certainly still on the move to some extent. However, this change should certainly reduce the pressure on massive strong sales. In this sense, I think it is certainly right that a person should be free in his or her decisions and that if he or she does not wish to sell his or her forest but wishes to care for it and to keep it himself, he or she must, of course, have the opportunity to do so. The forest register, of course, at the request of a person, can disclose all the data. Whoever wants to deal with it, he can still make all the data public.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U352	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U353	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I understand that the purpose of this draft was to collect all environmental data so that data could be obtained from one place. Without doubt, it has to be admitted that it is an important innovation in this activity of environmental data, as previous practice provided for many independent registers where the principle of uniformity had not been respected at all. The drafters themselves admit that they hoped to look to the future and to ensure that all environmental data were collected, including those that were not collected at all at the time of drafting the law, and now they say that, on the one hand, the law was significantly more ambitious than the practice has been achieved, on the other hand, not all registers or lists have been created. The question is whether it would not have been worth waiting for these other registers or other lists, and then come up with this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U354	Thank you, good questioner! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Of course, it also reminds me a little of the waste sector, where everything would like to be fixed and repaired at the same time. Indeed, changes have been made to these registers since 2017 and 2019, and I think that this work must continue, whatever it takes. I think that if we can still take one step and make things easier for people, it is a step in the right direction. And what is to be denied here, as well as the development of information technology, is so rapid and also what data is collected, what is needed and what needs to be used, maybe this will also change to some extent. I think it's a little like the city of Tallinn that it won't be ready. We just have to keep going.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U355	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U356	Good manager! Good waitress! There are different water and natural resources in this register and now there is also a register of mineral resources. But why is the forest register separate?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U357	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good questioner! As far as I know, it comes from the law of the forest, but what's the real reason is that I honestly owe the answer. Perhaps the Minister will be able to help with this question later.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U358	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U359	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable waitress! I come back to this provision which states that whether data is shared depends on the conviction of the Environment Agency. I have received your position in response to my question. Thanks for that. But my question now is whether or not the Commission discussed whether the word 'convincing' is appropriate here or not. What were these views and the outcome of the debate in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U360	Thank you. Honourable Chairman! Good questioner! Indeed, it has been a long day at work, I may not have been able to pass on all these debates in the committees to the full. So thank you for this clarification. Indeed, there was also a discussion in the Commission about its wording and precisely the fact that there is the word'may'. How can the word "may" be interpreted, does that mean that there are, as if, some additional conditions for the release of this data? However, in my opinion, the majority of both the Ministry and the Environment Agency and the Commission were still convinced that only on these grounds could the Environment Agency not issue the data listed here. In the end, there is still a possibility, if the decision should be rejected, to challenge it as well. Indeed, this wording was under discussion in the Commission, but it was generally found that these amendments guarantee that if scientists want to carry out forestry research, the Environmental Agency will be awarded a contract and these data will be issued for use.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U361	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U362	Thank you very much. I apologize for my ignorant question, but I'd like to know. Meelis Seedre has answered Mr Ossinovski's question and it deals with the methodology of the SMI. It has been said here that SMI plot data must not be public and, if they become public, the methodology will no longer work. I know the SMI has its own methodology. How does the methodology not work, or do I misunderstand something?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U363	Thank you. Honourable Chairman! Good questioner! This is precisely the methodology that I was trying to explain here. It may be [confused] if it is not dealt with on a daily basis, and I think it is also one of the reasons why it has raised many questions. This SMI methodology is the same statistical forest inventory methodology where Estonia is divided into pieces and where these are permanent and temporary pieces. While the locations of the permanent pieces on which changes in the forest are observed on the same specific pieces of time, the location of which is known only to a very small number of people, should become public, the point of Meelis Seedre's comment was that this statistics are no longer reliable because it could be manipulated by the knowledge made on these specific pieces. For example, whether you chop more or not to chop on this piece, plant some type of wood or other. These are all, of course, theoretical installations, but it is considered that this statistical principle, that there is such anonymity, must be ensured so that this methodology cannot be called into question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U364	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U365	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Firstly, it is, of course, very bad that the very substantive proposals on the classification of forest data have been caught up in a technical draft. Secondly, in your presentation, you made it seem that we really decided in a large consensus to classify forest data, that there were major discussions and then a compromise was reached. The discussions did indeed take place, but in the final stages it was still the case that on Tuesday the proposals came from the Ministry in a textual way and on Thursday the coalition voted them out numbly, literally, without essentially discussing and correcting these wordings. I was against it. But the question. As a result of this procedure, one serious error has occurred: that SMI data is provided to researchers in the forestry sector. Forestry according to the understanding of the Institute of the Estonian Language is the science of forest management. According to this, forest ecologists can't access these data. How could such a mistake have happened?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U366	Thank you. Honourable Chairman! Good questioner! However, the interpretation of forestry, I think, could be that everything that concerns the condition of our forest is also covered. Just as there were discussions with the Environmental Agency that, for example, forest explorers in Tartu, forest ecologists should be able to use this data, then that was one of the reasons why we formulated this point. I see it that way, and I also had the impression in the Commission's discussions that this should be possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U367	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U368	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Thank you, esteemed performer. I wouldn't dramatize any secret talk. As in the case of statistics, statistical data has been taken anonymously, there is a very clear scientific justification for this. I have a question about these amendments, there are 11 of them, all of them made by the Commission and all of them approved by the Commission. Are all these suggestions for improvement talking about this forest inventory, or do these suggestions for improvement have any other content here? From the ambassadors, I understand, nothing came up. They're all really after the ministry, aren't they?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U369	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good questioner! Indeed, no amendments have been received from the ambassadors and all the formulated amendments have been formulated by the Commission on a proposal from the Ministry. Here are the proposals concerning the register, the addition of some other laws concerning these registrations. Some of the amendments concern changes to the forest register and some of the proposals concern restrictions on access to, and changes to, statistical forest inventory or SMI data.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U370	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U371	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, We stated last time that not all of the lists proposed in the environmental register were born. But now the draft states that, on the other hand, the law has obvious time-limits, I emphasise, the time-limits, as it uses words, structures and requirements that were more specific to the data sets kept on paper. See, the term "age" is generally used for longer periods. For example, according to the geological Common Era, the third largest unit of age is after the eon and the era, such as the eras of the mesoicum being trial, law, and chalk. I ask: is the use of the term 'age' just not too ambitious, however, that the era of paper use is in contrast to the digital era? What is your personal opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U372	Honourable Chairman! Good questioner! Unfortunately, it is true that the use of Estonian is sometimes used inaccurately. For example, if you sometimes look at how much the word "part" is used instead of all other beautiful words and sentence structures, we seem to have forgotten them. It's the part that just replaces everything. You have such a professional education that allows you to see these nuances.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U373	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U374	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I got my eye right when I saw the word "information system" under this supplement. Was there really no mention in the Commission of making, for example, the DNA database of all forest owners, the image of the eye iris, the walk and the different facial images, because it cannot be ruled out that no forest owner has ever committed a crime [have], and that it could also be made available to the European prosecutor's office. Wasn't that really what we were talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U375	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good questioner! No, that's not what we were talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U376	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U377	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Yoko! Unfortunately, I am no longer in the Committee on the Environment and was unable to take part in this [debate]. But from Evgeni's question, I just got a little bit of how to say, the alarming thought that you did, but in the end, the road roll was driven all over this committee. Knowing Evgeny and knowing that she usually has quite constructive proposals that make you think and act, how did this happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U378	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable questioner, thank you for this sincere question. I would point out that the proposals originally came to us from the Ministry at the beginning of March. We finally arrived at the wording in June. In the meantime, discussions took place on the basis of which new proposals were formulated, including the wording of a point for researchers' access to SMI data. Also, the amendment to restrict the personal data of natural persons only to the forest register and not to legal persons. This particular point, on which Mr Ossinovski, a good colleague, had a remark, the word'may', was, frankly, I would say that it was indeed a nuance that depended on a linguistic interpretation. I didn't think it would change anything about the substance. But since it now seems to me that we really will not be able to get to the third reading of this draft this month, at least this month, perhaps this month, but certainly not in today's sitting, perhaps such verbal improvements can be made. In this sense, I very much agree that in the Committee on the Environment we have still tried to do constructive and substantive work. As far as these voting results are concerned, we are unfortunately talking here about coalition and opposition parties, which we have not tried to emphasise in any way in the Commission, but some Members simply did not take part in the vote and others were in favour. Yevgeny did indeed object, as he said.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U379	Thank you, good waitress. No further questions. Thank you. I now ask the Minister of the Environment, Tõnis Möldri, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U380	Thank you, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Have a nice morning, all of you! I am pleased that during the interim night, some members of the Riigikogu have also got older by a year, so congratulations also come from this Riigikogu board. You have before you a draft law amending the General Part of the Environmental Code and other laws 292 and, indeed, as the Chairwoman of the Commission said in this report, between the first reading and the second reading, the Ministry of the Environment has also tabled some amendments to this draft. They concern the registration, the forest register, the content of the management contract with the private forest centre of SA, the details of the SMI, and then some technical amendments have been included. That's all. I'm ready to answer your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U381	Thank you. Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U382	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Tõnis! I take this opportunity to ask a question that is not really relevant, which I rarely do in general. Natura 2000 sites and logging. Why don't you give me a heads-up on what's going on? It is pointless for us to ask now, because there is going to be a summer break and the answer is not until autumn. Why don't you explain what's going on?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U383	Thank you. This is not the point in the debate on draft 292, and I do not know that the Committee on the Environment would have discussed it between its first and second reading, but briefly, in reply: yes, indeed, such a memo has come from Europe. It's been a little less than a week to get to know this letter of formal notice. Within two months, the Ministry of the Environment will have to give its own explanations about this letter and if we give these explanations, we will certainly be able to make them public at least to members of the Riigikogu. However, the European Commission has drawn our attention to the fact that procedural documents, as long as they are part of the procedure, must not be made public, and I have understood that, unfortunately, we must also not disclose them to Members. So that's the deal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U384	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U385	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The chairman of the committee gave a very thorough overview, and you were a little bit more vague today, but certainly more prone to answering questions. I do not consider myself an expert in this area, which is why I am sorry if I have lost or misunderstood, and that is why I am asking you as a wiser question. In my opinion, according to the draft, forest data will remain public to forest cooperatives, including those properties which are not owned by a member of the forest cooperative itself. This raises questions about the invasion of privacy. Don't you think it's a bolt?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U386	Thank you. I don't think it's a latch.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U387	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U388	Thank you very much, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! As far as we know, the Ministry has not provided an impact analysis of the classification of data in this forest register on how this restriction affects citizens' right to information on the state of the environment. It is very important that they receive this information. Why have these effects not been analysed in depth? That is, let's be honest, a very principled question. I think it would deserve a more thorough answer, perhaps, than your previous answers have been.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U389	Thank you. Well, I'm sure by developing this whole bill, we've analyzed different impacts, including interacting with different interest groups. As far as I am concerned, there has actually been a considerable involvement between this first and second reading in the Committee on the Environment, and I think it has also been sufficient to assess the whole package of amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U390	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U391	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good minister! I would also like to come to the subject of this forest inventory. The tone used by forest management opponents is that there is some sort of huge cynical and vile cover-up. But in fact, as far as I am concerned, there are perfectly adequate and reasonable reasons why environmental activists are not wanted to know exactly where the forest is being measured. Could you describe it for us a little bit? I think you're getting your ass kicked for nothing right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U392	Thank you. Seems to me that this debate is really a little weird here, too. Some say that everything is classified and nothing gets out, and it's really bad, and the other says that you're gonna release the data and see how bad it is. It shows perhaps this in this Chamber, that some think one and read the sentence that they like, and others read the sentence that they like exactly depending on their outlook. I don't think we're secreting anything. I think that, in fact, with this draft law, we are very clearly regulating what concerns the statistical forest inventory data, the permanent test pieces that can indeed be obtained by various universities and research institutions precisely to carry out forest science. I think this will give more credibility to the statistical forest inventory data and, in the other way, will also give our experts, scientists, the opportunity to carry out research on the substance with Estonian forest data. So with this law, we are rather regulating how to retrieve this data, because indeed, today, this data is not shared with people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U393	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U394	The Ministry of the Environment is not just the Ministry of the Forest, but this forest issue has been a major social wreck. On the one hand, there are people who are calling for the reduction of protected forest areas to have more management resources. On the other hand, there are those who demand even more protection for forests and say that the forests planted are nurseries, are not full forests and do not represent such a natural environment, diversity. In the previous government, the Ministry of the Environment was our leader, and we tried to find a golden middle ground in this dispute. What kind of politics have you chosen? Maybe you can describe it in a few words.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U395	Thank you. First of all, I had not heard the term 'tree nurseries' about planting. Tree beds or such agricultural terms. I guess there's different names on this thing. I would like to start by saying that I think that the previous ministers, who were part of your home party, actually managed this ministry well and did their job with their hearts. Secondly, I would like to say that this issue of forestry is difficult. As I have said, there are a lot of different interest groups, organisations in forestry. I think the forest is our conservation value first, the forest has its own management value, but the forest also has social and cultural value. So all these four aspects, and perhaps something else, must be taken into account here and found this balance, and I think that the most sensible place to look for this balance is precisely the 2030 Forest Development Plan, which is to be adopted here in Parliament as well. I hope that this will happen in the next year, so that this balance can also be sought between the people in this Chamber, and I see that there is a debate on this subject in this Chamber, and these emotions are very different. So thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U396	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U397	Thank you. Dear Minister, Since, in the context of these proposals to amend the Forest Act, these are your proposals, please try to explain and justify them in substance. I think this is important in the course of this procedure, because Parliament has come to the Ministry and put them in the tail of another draft. I have two questions. Firstly, the Ministry has said about the forest register that the purpose of the classification of the forest register is to protect the forest owner from aggressive sales calls. In order to achieve this objective, the Data Protection Inspectorate also at the beginning of your own ministry offered different ways that would be less damaging in the context of access to environmental information, such as restricting robot queries or passive disclosure of certain data. You've decided to abandon them and go down the data lockdown route. Why? That's the first question. The second question is this. The officials of the Ministry did not know at the Commission how many years this data would be classified. Seventy-five?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U398	Thank you. You asked me two questions, but yet I can answer one, so I hope you'll be able to ask one more question and then I'll find out which one to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U399	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U400	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! You weren't supposed to be here at the beginning of today's debate, but we'd be happy to have you here as a performer. I was listening, and you weren't performing at all. You said that the Ministry had added five amendments between two readings, and that was it. I would very much like to ask you to make the speech that we at least have on this agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U401	Thank you. I suppose this is also a pretty historic moment for me to be in this Riigikogu at first reading and second reading, but I will tell you this and also in terms of the future: I am ready to come to this hall during the third reading, if that is necessary. So I will always be happy to come to Parliament when Parliament invites me, because Parliament is an employer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U402	A procedural question, Jevgeni Ossinovski.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U403	Thank you, Mr President. Would you explain to us and to the Minister this procedure, which is a presentation by a member of the government, in the context of second reading, of the Commission's decision as to why this is being done and what are the expectations of this report? I think the question of Mrs Põllea is very justified here and, in fact, the Chairman of the Committee on the Environment has also opened the background for the Minister to be invited here. In order to clarify in detail the issues concerning international conventions in substance, including constitutional issues. But there's something about this report that's been canceled. How can we appreciate this? And look, you've just heard that the minister doesn't really want to answer any questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U404	Thank you. We all know that Parliament's debate is that the question and the answer often do not come together. But that is the point when people come to this chair to really explain the proposals that have come to second reading, in this case also from the Ministry. Martin Helme, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U405	Thank you. I just wanted to ask. Mr. Speaker has much longer parliamentary experience than I do. Has it happened that ministers still come to Parliament during the third reading? I think they should have a say in the negotiations, but you can't do it at third reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U406	I don't know what the Minister was thinking, but really, at third reading, if a member of the government wishes, he has a say in the negotiations, as you said. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U407	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Tõnis! Here's the question. We know that this bill 292 is, in fact, a technical, clarifying, corrective draft. The Ministry has now chosen such a way that this relatively technical draft is accompanied by a very important point of 'disclosure' or 'hiding' of forest data as an amendment. Well, I don't know, yesterday there was a meeting on the field, I just came by, people were relatively demanded and worried. I'm asking why you chose this path. Another way would have been to initiate a draft, negotiate with the Data Protection Inspectorate, interest groups, take these tensions down. Now it's put in this booth, and we have to make up our minds about something relatively important for a lot of people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U408	I would not say that this is a relatively technical draft. I think this is quite a substantive draft. This concerns environmental data, the harmonisation of different environmental databases, the availability of these data, but also the fact that we have many things going " IT-based" or that the administrative burden is reduced, it is possible to submit certain documents directly via the online environment, which means that we no longer need to apply paper, so it is significantly more friendly to the natural environment. So no, he's certainly not just a technical draft. As far as this demonstration in front of the house yesterday is concerned, I would be left with a different view in this respect that this bill will certainly not keep any data that is public today, but now we are going by the way of secrecy. No, just the other way around. It is precisely this law that we are still creating the opportunity to make public data that, unfortunately, some people today are unable to access. So you can always express your right, and it's actually a great day in a democratic society.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U409	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U410	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. It's a great day for the ambassadors to ask questions to the minister, and especially at 7:30 in the morning when the work has been done all night. But that's my question. You said, on the contrary, nothing is classified. The text of the draft act, however, states that felling volumes, forest assets and other significant environmental infections will be considered as internal information in the future. My question is very simple and very specific, not scattered at all and not containing two questions. How many years will the forest data be classified?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U411	Thank you. I actually meant what I said to Kalvi. I was talking about statistical forest inventory and these samples, and I think it's very important that our research institutions, our universities, get the coordinates of these plots if they can justify that they are doing research on this. Today, unfortunately, it is not possible to disclose these statistical forest inventory data to universities or researchers who would like to do research on the forest. As far as these plot data are concerned, once again, this access limit.. I am talking about plot data..is introduced for five years. It shall also be possible for the Head of the Office to extend it further, if necessary, if justified and if there is indeed a need to further classify these plot data and coordinates and locations. Neither would we want to see that if these plot data are public and can be manipulated, then we can also manipulate this forest statistics. As we know, we also have a lot of European-related reporting, including LULUCF reporting, and there are a lot of different support mechanisms involved. So in this sense, I think it is very important that, first of all, these data are reliable, second of all, that these data are not manipulative, but, third of all, which, I think, is very important that scientists and experts, if they can justify why they want these data, get the coordinates of these plots.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U412	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U413	Thank you. First of all, Minister, you said this was a historic moment, and I believe that I speak on behalf of all my colleagues in this Chamber. It is undoubtedly a great honour for us to witness it, to be with you in this Chamber at the same time and to be part of this historic moment. But my question is that environmental organisations have been very critical of these proposals and this complicates the nature conservation work. For example, it is more difficult for them to compare whether the cuttings carried out met the requirements of the logging notice and so on. What do you say to those environmental organisations that say that it is now more difficult for them to actually exercise public control over logging and state on behalf of all of us? We know that so many of these questionable cases have come out recently, thanks to the good work done by environmental organisations, and this has also helped the public to notice much more of the issues and problems of our forests.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U414	I must start by apologizing to you for a little waste of your time answering, because I will also answer Helmen Hunt's previous question, which was even more substantive: it is ten years. But on the other hand, concerning the various environmental organisations in Estonia, which are doing a very grateful job, I think that this debate on forestry and forestry policy, including various forest data, has become so substantive and accurate. That is always great, because it is good to have a substantive debate, and then there will be substantive results. I sincerely believe that the forestry development plan is the place where this substantive policy can begin to be shaped, what the future of our forest could be in the next ten years. So I call on all the members of the Riigikogu to speak on the subject of forestry and present their proposals, as I did yesterday morning at a seminar in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U415	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U416	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! A few weeks ago, the European Union Affairs Commission had been invited as Minister of Urmas Kruus. He had to make a proposal to talk about or introduce a plan for the cultivation of genetically modified plants in agriculture. He said that it would be necessary for the European Union Affairs Commission to agree on this issue, because at the moment, the situation is such that very many legislation bans the cultivation of genetically modified plants, but because the world is in food trouble and still needs to change these things, it would be necessary to do this. Here [in the draft] is the area of release of the genetically modified organism. Could you give me a little more details about what this is about? This is § 395 "Estonian Nature Information System."
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U417	Thank you. First of all, as regards GMOs as a whole, this is certainly an important debate, and I think that this debate should also be held again in the Committee on Rural Affairs. I think that if it is also related to the European Union's issues, then surely the European Commission is the right place to do so. I know that many good ministers in the previous government who were working in both the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the Ministry of the Environment actually held this debate between their two houses. So I think this debate has been substantive. If there is something else to discuss here, there is no doubt that these two committees will always be able to hold this substantive debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U418	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U419	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Tõnis! That's my question. You said or said Yoko that these data could be accessed by forestry scientists. Forestry scientists. Probably forestry scientists are all kinds of professors at the University of Earth, aren't they? But can the ecologists of the University of Tartu access it? They are also very closely involved in forestry and scientists, the ecologists of the University of Tartu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U420	Thank you. First of all, in response to you that the Environmental Agency may allow access to the coordinates of permanent plots to R &amp; D institutions for research in the forestry sector under a data-use contract, except in cases where the Environmental Agency is not convinced that the data is used solely for scientific purposes, it is not convinced that the person wishing to use the data will implement the data to ensure compliance with the accessibility requirements, and the user has previously breached the terms of the data-use contract. These are the points on the basis of which it is not possible to issue such data. If the conditions are met and the three points have not been broken or the three points have been considered to be "essentially compliant', R &amp; D institutions will be able to disclose these data for research in the forestry sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U421	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U422	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! This nature information system also lists the hunting area within the meaning of the Hunting Act. As we know, there is now a question of rethinking these hunting areas, where, as from different angles, we are looking at whether these state forests are going to form part of the overall hunting area or whether they will remain somehow different, so that they can be merged with the properties of private forest owners. The question is that, since today is, as far as I know, Thursday, yes, the Estonian Hunting Men's Society is a state-wide council here in Harju County, it would be very good to have information about what is coming and what is to be practiced with hunting areas within the meaning of this Forest Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U423	Thank you. First of all, the issue of hunting areas and the extension of permits for hunting areas. Indeed, by 2023, these permits must be extended. There are 315 pieces of them in Estonia, and I believe 11 of them have been extended to date. I have had a lot of meetings over the last month and a half, maybe five or six, with different organisations, including the Hunters' Association, the Private Forest Association, the Agricultural Industrial Chamber, precisely in order to find this common part of how to move forward with this issue. I sincerely hope that, at today's conference, hunters will come up with a comprehensive package representing the interests of the whole sector. Indeed, tomorrow we will also have a meeting on this issue to reach a substantive agreement once again on this difficult issue, and I sincerely hope that we will achieve that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U424	Henn Põllamaas, please! I'm sorry! Kalle Grünthal, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U425	Thank you. I have such a request that you make a comment to my esteemed colleague Jürgen Ligi that if I ask questions, he would not roll his eyes and stare at me and say something, because, frankly, the information he has told me is of little interest to me. So he's just interrupting the hearing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U426	Thank you. We must certainly respect each other in this Chamber, but where the members of the Riigikogu turn and how their eyes go, it is difficult for me to intervene. But the fact that there really is silence, I agree with you in that regard, when someone has violated the silence. I didn't hear anyone's voice get too hard so we wouldn't have heard the waitress. But it goes on. A procedural question, Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U427	Thank you. Since I didn't make a sound, would it be possible for us to resolve this conflict by not rolling my eyes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U428	I don't know, sometimes it may be necessary to have a circle of eyes, so I think it's a choice for every member of the Riigikogu. That cannot be regulated by the President of the sitting. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U429	I would be delighted if the Minister would explain a few things to me. According to statistics before the war, there were about 20% of the forest in Estonia, today more than 50% of the forest is covered, but in order to compare it, did the inventory take place on the basis of the same methodology at the time and today? Today, it is considered to be the forest where the trees grow at least 1.3 metres long. Was it calculated in the same way back then? Many people are concerned that Estonia will be cut off. That would give you such a good comparison.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U430	Indeed, in that sense, you are right that, if I look up quickly, the forest has grown significantly since 1942 compared to the previous year, 2020. Certainly, in 1942, there was no statistical forest inventory as it is today. Statistical forest inventory has certainly become much more precise, much better, much more substantial. The limit of statistical error has been reduced to a relatively minimum. However, I think that these data are still comparable today and still give us a clear signal and picture that the forest has come to Estonia precisely in these last decades.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U431	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U432	Thank you. Dear Minister, I have two simple questions. First of all, we are discussing forest law issues and forest issues, but the government is a whole, and as a member of the government, you can tell us why this restriction on the use and publication of data applies only to forest land and not to agricultural land. Companies also take an interest in agricultural land and buy [it] and may pressure owners, etc. In my opinion, this is an analogous situation. Why has the government decided to act like this in the case of forest land only now and not in the case of the rest of the world? That's one question. And second: what does development and research mean? I know that a number of non-profits, but also real estate companies, can, in principle, sign up for their articles of association, that they are engaged in, among other things, development and research activities, and that they can do so. In this case, will they still be able to access and treat these data as development and research actors who will be able to access these data?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U433	Thank you. I must treat the members of the Riigikogu equally. As I pointed out to your good colleague here, two questions still allow me to answer only one at a time. So which one?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U434	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U435	Well, I'll come help my good groupmate, because I have both questions to ask. Helir-Valdor Seeder can ask one question himself. Let's start at this first end. Indeed, in the case of the sale of agricultural land, there is also a great deal of pressure and call and proposals are made to landowners to abandon land. I admit, in the case of woodland, this pressure may be a little higher. But really, has the government discussed harmonising certain restrictions on countries or limiting the availability of data? It is worth considering in my opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U436	Thank you. Yes, in relation to forest data in particular, we have come to precisely this approach, in cooperation with the private forest federation and other parties, that certain data, which is personal data, that we can identify a person specifically with this parcel, should be classified. Indeed, there are such very strong different sales offers and it is very difficult to give up these offers and people will inevitably sell their forests, even though they do not want to do so fully. So it's primarily meant to protect people. As regards your particular question of whether this could also be applied to agricultural land, I can say that, at the Government level, we have not specifically discussed this issue in this regard. This does not mean, of course, that we could not discuss it more substantially in Riigikogu committees, for example, because yes, I think that in a certain sense stability and the same comprehension in different subjects is undoubtedly good and will also reduce the administrative burden.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U437	Procedural question, Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U438	Thank you. Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Don't you think the minister will be tired by morning? Perhaps this sleepless night has affected the Minister's mental health that he cannot answer questions from members of the Riigikogu, at least not my question. It is relatively unprecedented that I ask a question and he does not want to answer. We have had the practice and the rules of procedure here, and we have come from this, that if the Minister does not have the subject, he can also answer anything, as we have heard from this remote control. However, in order not to give such a snap at all, it is still, in my opinion, a lack of respect for both Parliament and a member of the Riigikogu. I do have a request that you consult the Minister and, if necessary, take a break, let him drink a glass of water, come back, be able to answer questions from members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U439	Thank you. I think that the idea that you wanted to say now arrived at everyone who wanted to hear it, and you have the opportunity to ask the next question. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U440	Thank you. Honourable Minister, I hope you have gathered yourself and are now able to respond. I will ask my questions again, and I will ask you two questions in two parts of my question. Does this also extend to arable land and what is your position as Minister for the Environment, should this use and publication of data be extended to [agricultural] as to forest land? And another part of this question: is it possible to treat as R &amp; D the activities of real estate companies or any company or non-profit organisation, if this is one of their statutory activities, it is registered and maybe in practice they do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U441	Thank you. First of all, it's early in the morning, but I've been waking up nicely, so there's no need to worry about it. In fact, this first question of yours I answered in response to Mr Hepner, but I am going to mention to you once again that we have not discussed it at the level of the Government of the Republic, but, if necessary, I think that this matter could be raised. As I said, this unified approach may even be justified to a certain extent. The second question is whether real estate companies can classify themselves as R &amp; D institutions. In fact, the R &amp; D Organisation Act lays down certain different requirements that we consider to be R &amp; D institutions. This means that there are different requirements, including the management of membership, academic staff. So quite every company can't be a research institution, but that doesn't mean that in the long run they can't develop into research institutions. I have noted here the three points on which the Environment Agency can refuse to disclose these data, and precisely these three points also say and exclude any business activity with these data being prohibited.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U442	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U443	Good waitress! If this data has now become such a big deal in this Chamber, you could even quote it as a report on whether it is more important to report to the ambassadors or whether it is still the primary one and only then the report as such a secondary one.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U444	Thank you. In the case of a statistical forest inventory, however, this report, which is the basis by which we calculate these statistics and by which we use these statistics, is still a priority. The second step is certainly that this data can be verified and research can be done on the basis of it. I think it is important that this research is carried out if it is justified. In my opinion, it is also important that this statistical forest inventory disappears from such, say, hesitation or suspicions that have arisen in people for some reason. That is why I consider it important that we also carry out a mathematical audit on this issue and cooperate here with the various universities that clearly provide input so that, in the form that we are doing this statistical forest inventory today, it is indeed possible to reflect and compare our forest statistics and to carry out various analyses.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U445	Riho Breivel, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U446	Mr President! Does the principle of equal treatment now mean that the Minister should not answer Mr Ossinovski's questions as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U447	Thank you. I was thinking the same thing. I wanted to say that I find it very pleasant to see the support that Riigikogu members give each other. I can see for several times that you will notice that Mr Ossinovski may have been a little bit hurted in your opinion, you will intervene immediately. I really want to acknowledge it, it's very, very pleasant, I'd say so. But yes, as far as I know, Mr Ossinovski has asked two questions, so here is the fact that I cannot give him a third question as manager. I can't do that, even if I really want to. But let's keep going. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U448	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I'd like to say, first of all, what kind of bullshit are you talking about? First of all, we will make quick changes so that the ambassadors are unable to propose amendments, and then you will call on the subject to be discussed in the framework of the forestry development plan. It can be seen in this Chamber that there are clearly people who would also like to classify farmland data. And at the same time, there are people like me who wouldn't want to classify forest data. There is a clear need for a debate, so I call for it not to move forward at this rate. But a specific question, too. Since this information has not been included in the explanatory memorandum, the effects have not been assessed, I ask you: how many properties are owned only by private owners and are the data made secret?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U449	Thank you. Well, I cannot in any way agree with your argument that it has not been possible to examine the substance of this matter or to hold a debate. The first reading took place on 17 February. If I look today, the date is June 17th. March, April, May, June, 4 months. Four months is still a really dark time for Parliament, and all the Members who have had a wish have actually been able to have a say in this matter. So it has been, I think, a very substantive debate in Parliament's sense. As regards the impact, I have also answered the question of one of your fellow Members, I guess you were not in the Chamber at that moment, that the impact analysis is included in the explanatory memorandum. So these effects have been assessed and, in my opinion, they have also been available for four months.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U450	A procedural question, Riina Sikkut.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U451	Thank you, good manager. I have a feeling the Minister has lost something. These amendments concerning forest secrecy and the SMI did not arrive here in the Riigikogu four months ago. Maybe the minister can see the materials when they came. That's where we're still talking, I think, about a few weeks. Similarly, the number I asked for does not exist in the explanatory memorandum. I would like the Minister to answer that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U452	Thank you for that line. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U453	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! In the case of forest data, this will be reported, but will valuable farmland still find a dignified place in this report so that we do not plant valuable farmland? For future rappers, I'm gonna put that question here. Is it appropriate to use a modern computer to calculate this data, or could we use such a good ecological wooden slide? To "shove it, pushed it, pushed the bridge," you can make a good sample of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U454	Thank you. Well, the bridge of Lükat is actually close to the heart, and Pirita is a beautiful place, and Pirita's forests and the river's primeval valley are undoubtedly a beautiful place. With regard to your question of valuable agricultural land, you know, I think Riina Sikkut here drew attention and clearly referred to valuable agricultural land and whether, in the case of agricultural land [data], a certain amount of restriction should be applied in the same way as in the case of forest data. I will stick to these words that it has been possible for all Members to make proposals, to hold different debates within four months, so that if there had been a desire to hold a substantive debate, it has been possible to do so within four months. In my opinion, the Committee on the Environment has actually done a very good and substantial job, so I would like to thank all the members of the Committee on the Environment for this substantive debate and also thank the members of the Riigikogu for having such a substantive debate here in the early hours of the morning.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U455	Tarmo Kruusimäe, procedural.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U456	Yes, I have a procedural addition just so that there is no wrong understanding in the protocol that if the ambassadors are not in the Chamber, they will not participate in this debate. We all listened to it. That is what has encouraged us to come to this Chamber, because this debate has been so good. And what matters is, this is a historic moment, it would be a sin to miss. [This is an explanation] so that there is no wrong understanding that those who are in the hall, they participate, and others who are not, will not participate and for them as if the forest were of no value.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U457	Thank you. Question, Riina Sikkut.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U458	I really confirm what Tarmo Kruusimäe said that I listened to the Minister's answers, they were inadequate, I came quickly. I would ask that the Ministry of the Environment has for a long time already done everything in its power to prevent researchers from accessing SMI data. Thus, doubts have arisen. Is the reason suddenly that this data has already leaked to forest owners and therefore no longer corresponds to reality? As your minister, can you confirm that this has not happened under any circumstances and that the SMI data is completely reliable?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U459	Thank you. According to the data I know, the statistical forest inventory is reliable today.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U460	Good Minister, thank you! No further questions. Thank you very much. Now I'm opening negotiations. Riigikogu speech chair Ruuben Kaalepi, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U461	Dear Riigikogu! Why has this draft raised disputes? Because it is possible to restrict the access of scientists and experts to statistical forest inventory data. Why is this important? Because the statistical forest inventory provides answers to a question that is important for the future of our country: is the forest being cut too much or too little in Estonia? What does the statistical forest inventory have to do with this? The fact that there are contradictions between its data, which are precisely about this fundamental issue. Let me give you an example. On 3 June s. A new statistical forest inventory was published, according to which 11.25 million cubic metres of forest were cut in Estonia in 2019 and 10,6 million cubic metres in 2020. According to the Environmental Agency, in 2019 the net growth of the economic forest was over 12 million cubic metres. A year earlier, the felling volume was 12.74 and a year before 12.5 million cubic metres. According to recent data from the SMI, 3.9 million cubic metres of timber were cut off from state land and 7.3 million cubic metres were cut off from private land. Since private ownership is slightly less than half the forest land, these figures show that the private forest was cut twice as intensively as the state forest in 2019. At the same time, forest assets have fallen according to the same SMI. In 2019, Estonia had 481 million cubic metres of forest assets. By 2020, it had shrunk to 472 million cubic metres. Thus, the timber assets of the Estonian stands have decreased by 9 million cubic metres in one year, i.e. the net growth of the Estonian forest was less than 9 million cubic metres. There is a clear difference in data for which there is no simple explanation. This cannot be explained, for example, by the expansion of protected areas, as has been done inexplicably, because it is not taken into account in the assessment of timber assets. It can only be said that a net increase of 12 million cubic metres and a reduction of 9 million cubic metres cannot be true at the same time. Unfortunately, on these issues, unexplained anomalies and unclear information, much of the misunderstandings about the ecological future of the Estonian forest and the future prospects of the forestry sector lie. These two do not necessarily have to contrast with each other if we can bring clarity to unambiguous facts from which decisions affecting the Estonian environment can be made. However, it is urgently necessary for at least expert ecologists and scientists to have access to the basic data from which these numbers are derived. So far, the Environmental Agency, which is subordinate to the Ministry of the Environment, has simply refused to issue data on the location of permanent plots. Recently, the Data Protection Inspectorate decided that this was still public data and that it was therefore obliged to submit this data to the requesting parties, including the University of Tartu. On the other hand, § 91 of the Forest Act, which is planned by this Bill, allows the data to be left for internal use, unless the Environmental Agency itself agrees to share them with scientists. This, in turn, means that the sharing of data with researchers is essentially made dependent on the discretion of environmental agency officials. The environmental agency will have the right to refuse to conclude a data-use contract if it is not convinced that the data will be used exclusively for research in the forestry sector and that they will not be provided to outsiders. The emphasis is on the word 'convinced' because it is quite unprecedented that the availability of such vital data to experts in their field who are able to evaluate them is made dependent on the conviction of officials. The justification is the protection of personal data, which is prima facie necessary and a noble angle of approach. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U462	How much? Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U463	At the same time, this justification does not suffer criticism, as this problem would be very simple and even the most sensible solution by changing the rules of the land register. For some reason, however, government parties and officials have not even considered it necessary to go into this matter. Consequently, it seems that this is simply a convenient excuse for continuing to classify information for scientists. Honourable Riigikogu! The fate and future of the Estonian forest have generated much debate in recent years, but also confrontation. I believe that confrontation between nature and the economy is not inevitable. The Estonian people are too small, in too difficult a demographic and geopolitical situation to afford another division. I also believe that we all deeply value Estonian nature in our hearts. It's part of being an Estonian. How, then, can this confrontation be resolved? One crucial issue here is that there must be no ambiguity in data and facts. They must be accessible to all parties involved, but especially to scientists, experts in their field, biologists and ecologists. Only in this way can we reach a common conclusion on how to best protect our natural and economic wealth together. I also want to stress again and again that this cannot be a party matter. This is something that deeply affects the entire Estonian people. And just as in defence policy, forest policy should have a cross-party agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U464	Thank you. I now request the Riigikogu Chair of Merry Aart.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U465	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, We are discussing here today the draft law 292 on the environmental register. This is related to EELIS, or Estonian nature information system, and is related to the KESE or environmental monitoring database or database. KOTKAS, or environmental permit information system, is involved. This is related to the TEC, i.e. fishing permits and databases. They all need to be updated and have been done for quite a few years. As far as I know, the organisations that use these databases have even been earmarked for this year's budget to switch to and update these databases, because every database needs to be updated. I am very sorry that it was not clear from the impact analysis of this law what resources are needed, how much money is needed, how many people would be needed. Yes, indeed, the forest is such a thing as to fuel our passion. A good colleague here, Kalvi, spoke in his statement about studies. I am a very pro-researcher and I have always said this, but on this point, I would like to say that I remembered one thing that was quite popular in my time, that we form a Commission, that we conduct a survey and do so in public procurement, that the result is secure. So now that we're talking a little bit about this SMI, I'm really glad that this SMI has been introduced into this law. It's going to concretise a little bit of the unscathed and the one who gets to use the SMI and who can't. Indeed, the SMI is, in essence, a forest inventory, which is carried out by example from Sweden or by example from Sweden. Sweden has been using it for a hundred years. Its importance is that it is exactly the same every year, and here comes the secrecy. There are quite a number of examples where you can find out where the SMI tract or this small piece, which is checked or reviewed every year, is available. This essentially means that one tree is measured 5 years in a row or 10 years in a row or 20 years in a row. So that no one can artificially go in there, so that it can be credible, that's why these data will not be released. Then neither landowner nor conservationists can go there. There are cases where you find out where this tract is worthwhile. There are flying squirrels, lichens, moss required to be protected, and this would undermine statistical credibility. So it has an idea why he's classified. Now it's known to be available to scientists. With regard to what science is, I believe we are not so stupid that we do not know what data is used for science's sake and what are used for some kind of protection. We have a little too much created in Estonia called... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U466	Yes, please, three minutes for you! But I just [because] in the hall there was a little noise. I wanted everyone else who wanted to listen to you to listen nicely. There's still three minutes left. So two good things at a time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U467	Okay, thanks! We have a little too many protectors like that. I repeat, I am not against protection if there is something to protect if there is a value to protect. But we often and recently have more and more defenders who have formed an NGO and who have changed protection to work and will be rewarded for it. Such protection cannot be justified. We need peasant wisdom; we need to strike a balance between nature conservation, economics, culture and the social side. That is why we must not make the same SMI available to everyone, because not everyone always behaves correctly, in a balanced way, but, as I say, in a slightly biased way. We want to get our cutting capacity, which is always very close to everyone's heart, but forest resources are not just logging capacity, forest resources are also species, there are damage, there are types of habitats, there are dead forests. By the way, we have a lot of flat wood, much more than we have this younger wood or growing wood. Estonia is the sixth largest forest in Europe, we have more than 50%, the European average is 35%. So I understand very well when a person travels along the highway or walks a little on the forest road, which is mostly created by RMK, there are expenses, and when he sees that somewhere he's been cut, emotionally, he feels like there's been a lot of damage. But we may have to think a little about not having a child as an adult. In the same way, the forest is not suddenly an adult forest. Raised strawberries, raspberry grows, then blueberries come, and so on. If we only want permanent forests, and if we don't think about how to upgrade forests, what is the balance, we'll soon have no strawberries, we don't have raspberries, we'll consciously take our nature out of balance under the protection sign. Here we can make more wolves, bears. We protect the wolves, we've come so far that without expert judgment, our courts will ban the hunt for wolves, ban the hunting of geese. But are we protecting farmers? Are we protecting the animals? Are we protecting the dogs that wolves break? Are we protecting the calves or the sheep that wolves break? Why do we think that wolves have a greater right to live than dogs and other domestic animals? If we keep going like this, we're gonna have to start protecting people at some point. For example, in Southeast Estonia, people are no longer afraid to go into the woods because they meet the lynx and the bear there, we have an abundance of foxes. So let's think about it with peasant wisdom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U468	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U469	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, All the beautiful and dramatic stories, but yes... Last night I was supposed to be here as chairman of the committee, but then there were some sudden changes, and then the minister was brought here. In fact, most people have been talking about the forest and the SMI here. I can tell you guys, this isn't the subject of this bill at all. This is a marginal, extremely marginal issue that has come in at the end thanks to the activity of private forest managers. It's like, I'm not saying that a foreign body, because both reindeer and forest and fish as well as everything else, natural resources, mineral resources, and so on, everything is the same. There is no growing forest in the environmental register. There is a forest register that brings together taxing data and other things that are important for forest management. The SMI is like that, everyone's talking about it, some sort of secrecy. Hey, guys! It's a social talk. But according to this, the increase in the forest is estimated. There are two rehearsal squares. Some are permanent, they are randomly located across Estonia, both in private and state countries according to a certain system, and others are those that change. If these permanent ones were known, it's possible to imagine them, manipulate them, cut a little bit, do something there, but it's based on all our forest assets and all those things. Those who want to get it. Indeed, if I had been here as a waitress, I would have described these six meetings of our committee, where we also discussed it very thoroughly with the head of the Data Protection Inspectorate. Yeah, the head of the Environment Agency is a little bit timid out there, so I don't know, maybe the data will start walking, like he says. I don't want to stop at all, I've even spent too much time on this forest, the SMI, and so on. With this bill, it's a remote thing at all. This environmental register brings together [many things]; the mineral resources are also placed there, so are wild game, so precious habitats, so do these monitoring data, water, groundwater, surface water, etc. Imagine the whole spectrum there, and the important thing is that the forest doesn't fall under it. The forest, the growing forest, is in the forest register. But we're only talking about this SMI. This is not at all the subject of this draft, although it has come in very forcefully. I will read to you, for example, if you look at this bill only on a page-by-page basis, what will be changed. There are four proposed amendments to the Forest Act on 15.3 pages in total. The two amendments to the Water Act are on the side of the page somewhere. There are two improvements to the [protection] law on atmospheric air, one on the Waste Act and one on the Industrial Emissions Act. In fact, everyone can look at them themselves, there are 11 amendments that we will soon be voting on. There superpowerfully dominates the forest and these discussions where... I don't see any colleagues, I don't see Ossinovsky here, I don't see Andres Metsoja, I don't see Heiki Kranich. By the way, this is Heiki Kranich's kid we're killing right now. Heiki Kranich was Minister of the Environment in 2002, when the Environmental Register Act was made. Well, it's often that Dad is a father, but the real father is someone else. Heiki is its father, but the other real fathers of the Environmental Register Act were Leo Saare and Endel Goliath and...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U470	I'll ask you if you need more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U471	Yeah, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U472	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U473	So Heiki was an official father, but the real fathers for the record I just named. In time, these silo towers, as we like to say, were created, somewhere there were different klaads, somewhere there were card decks, perfocards, etc., just as it often is in the Estonian country that the different ridges differ and they did not go together as well. By the way, the Environmental Register Act of Heiki Kranich was actually ahead of its time. It had been put in place in such a way that the data that existed and on the basis of which decisions were actually made were not only collected in different places but associated. It's important, on the one hand, it's spatial data, whether something grows here, some paw, or it's an eagle nest or somewhere in a nitrate sensitive area, etc. But the other one is these qualitative data, monitoring how much there is, for example, some kind of plant or whatever. What matters is how they interact with each other because they are the basis for decisions, no matter what decisions they take. The state makes decisions, the municipalities make decisions. However, if the data are not the maximum that has been collected, the conclusions may not be sufficient. By the way, environmental impact assessments are regularly carried out everywhere. Local governments do, comprehensive plans, detailed plans are done. Authorities, not just the Ministry of the Environment, are doing all kinds of research, but they're not getting there, they're not getting there. Consequently, if the maximum number of data is not available, these results may not be adequate. But right now, we've been moving to the point where we're going that way. It's been several decades...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U474	Mr. Ernits, your time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U475	...and Heiki's kid is really a good time to kill. Figuratively, I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U476	Mr. Ernits, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U477	Yeah, I know time's up. Anyway, it's a pretty good bill. But, my friends, the forest is an extraterrestrial thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U478	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U479	Good ambassadors! It does not happen every day that nothing is abolished in the Estonian legal order. That's why I wanted to spend a few minutes celebrating this magnificent event, to abolish some kind of law. They're breaking some law, really. I understand the reason that this is not a grand example of reducing the volume of legislation, but it is still a startling event in a situation where the whole shelf of Estonian law is growing and growing and growing. I imagine that in the future antiques it will be very popular just to decorate the walls of the rooms. I would remind you that such beautiful slogans have been called, yes and yes. It was over ten years ago when such beautiful sentences were spoken that we would refrain from over-regulation and over-production of laws. The development of a new normative act is subject to the ultima ratio principle, i.e. convincing justification of its necessity and analysis of the practice of implementation. We support the use of clear and simple legal and official languages. We are launching a broad parliamentary process with the aim of shaping a legal culture aimed at cutting red tape. Yeah, I'll ask you if you've seen anything like it. I'm not. I have not seen a parliamentary process that reduces bureaucracy and a legal culture that reduces it. Well, it's not. They're all on paper. Neither does Brussels owe a cent to these eloquences. They say nicely on their policy-making pages that subsidiarity means finding an ideal balance between policy-making and its implementation. The European Union should act only if it is necessary and if it brings clear benefits compared to measures taken at national, regional or local level. The principle of subsidiarity aims to ensure that decisions of the European Union are taken as closely as possible to the citizen. Right now, one of the recorded laughter should have sounded in this hall like today's comedies. Because I do not know who it is written to, but show me one person who knows that the number of European legislation has decreased. I don't know a person like that. But there are also few people in Estonia who have read European legislation. Individual officials, individual professionals, and this riddle continues to grow, grow and grow. I expect our filmmakers to do something that shows how we've drowned in a bunch of regulations, how stacks grow and grow and grow. Nothing's gonna change. Look at the beautiful names. The Subsidiarity and Proportionality Task Force was set up in 2017 to make recommendations for better management of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. That's what's left of one of the juicy carbon dioxide mouthfuls that warms the atmosphere. Nothing's changed. Sad. I will give at least one idealistic example. I honestly--I haven't been able to control... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U480	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U481	At least one positive effort. In particular, President Trump promised a huge withdrawal of federal regulations for small businesses, writing a regulation that for each new regulation two such regulations must be abolished. It was made with a big aplomb, but I don't think even a change-oriented person like him could break the American legislators' appetite for endless regulations. But still a beautiful initiative. Yeah, let's dream. We are glad that today we are witnesses of an exceptional event, where something has been cancelled, we will make a cross and hope that one day we will make another cross, and that it will not remain an extraordinary anomalous event. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U482	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U483	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good keepers, protectors and savers of the Republic and Estonian forests! It's the poetry of the soul. I was struck by a little misfortune this morning when a spring fly climbed between my eyelid and my eyeballs, and completely awkwardly he began to redesign my nearest eye iris to mislead biometric data when I heard this dynamic debate. At this point, I should thank the President of the Riigikogu, Jüri Ratas, because now we have learned what means "in a dynamic rhythm." Maybe I got a little ahead of myself. But the historic event was in this hall today, June 17th, 2021. The moment I had a misty eye, because the fly was still under my eyelid, I heard and found a rhythm in this debate. I have to say, Wart never gets there. The way [did] question and answer, question and answer, maybe rap isn't the right word, and he was so dynamic, but there was such an Estonian regilaul or such a ugri-mugri. And this is not a surprise, because today is the congress of Finno-Ugric peoples. What better way can people and young people introduce our work, our policy? At this point, I really give good advice: all young people who have an ear, I don't claim to it, I'm a fairly talented person who participates in making music or in violating it, there was and there is absolutely substance. Just take this sound file for today's debate. The picture is nothing, you can just put it in the woods, but in the background, shoot at the forest noise, shh-shh, discussing the report, ta-ta-ta, ta-ta-ta, and then all report it and report it and publishing and discussing it. Well, you can imagine when the young still swing around the fireplace like that, just like they took some fly scene, and they'd put it back in order to make the report public and the debate and all of them. I didn't happen to say that I'm going to say here whether we're going to calculate this report using modern computing techniques, or whether we're going to use such a good ecological and old wooden push. [I said this so that I could say no to the exact spot of this sample: pushed, pushed, pushed the bridge. It is perfect, it is this historic moment that not only does the Minister make it historic, but it is also the ambassadors and this symbiosis, how we created a new piece together. Perhaps the debate remained unfathomable for many, but it was still noticeable that the chairman of the Riigikogu indicated that the way the ambassadors came to each other..., well, one had finished his own verse and the other went smoothly at the same flow. This is incredible! We have already become a unified whole with these long discussions here, such as the bee leader, together, we are buzzing and together. Yeah, of course I should say that every day we can't do sound like that. I guess he depends on the waitress. Today, we saw many who presented well-informed [thinking] and maintained a pleasant courtesy and remained dignified. And, of course, there were performers who were extremely arrogant. But this forest debate in this kind of cooperation, I don't know where it started, but the end result is enjoyable. Take this sound file, the sound of the forest, and the Estonian song has already been born in this hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U484	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U485	Thank you, Mr President. Can I have three more minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U486	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U487	Firstly, there are very few questions where I agree with Reuben Kaalep, but his speech would be signed by almost every word. I hope that he will also be able to bring to his fellow parties the same knowledge and understanding of the different aspects of forestry more than other speeches have been heard. Mr Ernits said that the SMI issues in the forest register are an extraordinarily small and pointless issue in the context of this draft. He is beyond doubt because, in the case of the original draft, which really concerned the unification of technical registers, we all have a consensus here, and this draft would actually have been adopted without major disputes. But the problem is that an unusually important change was introduced into this draft after the first reading as proposals by the Ministry of the Environment. Their proposals have not been discussed with stakeholders and environmental organisations; they were not discussed with the Data Protection Inspectorate. There is no doubt that this way of proposing and processing changes is not correct, and that is what has caused the most controversy. I will also focus on these issues in my speech. Let's take these two issues apart if they even tend to go through here. Regulation of statistical forest inventory data. In general, no one in this Parliament has called for all statistical forest inventory data to be fully public to everyone. We understand this as regards the impact of the disclosure of the locations of permanent plots on the reliability of these data. But the Commission has actually addressed a situation in several sessions where forest ecologists at the University of Tartu cannot access these data. They just don't give them, they play dumb, literally. It is said that you will submit an application, you will submit applications, you will now process them for three months, and then you will simply refuse, you will not say anything, but you will not be issued. This is the real situation we've been in. This wording of itself could be something to move forward if the majority of the Commission, rather than implementing the roller, had actually analysed these provisions and agreed on them. But it wasn't done. Well, the chairman of the committee agreed with the minister there, but there was no substantive debate on these points in the committee. This wording is poor. Unfortunately, it's bad. I'll explain why. Firstly, the provision that has been proposed. Indeed, if you read these provisions in conjunction, the Environmental Agency will have the right to issue permanent rehearsal pieces [data] in certain limited cases, but the obligation to outsource them to ecologists at the University of Tartu, for example, does not provide for this law, because the basic provision contains the word "may." Well, I can give it to you, but I can't give it to you. I proposed that we take the word'may' out, i.e. must be issued, unless there are some exclusionary conditions. This amendment was not accepted. Secondly, the grounds for refusal set out in the same provision. It was already said today that it would not be issued. The Environment Agency must refuse if it is not convinced that whoever wants the data will actually use them for the right purpose and so on. Well, it is not a correct legal text in a situation of mistrust. Past practice has shown that the availability of these data is a problem for researchers of the University of Tartu who are completely reliable. This conviction has so far been held by the Environmental Agency that they will not provide this data. This provision does not correct this problem, which it should correct. The third question, which was not analysed in the Commission at all, because it really went so far, is that they are issued for research in the field of forestry. According to the Estonian language dictionary, forestry is an industry and related applied science that covers the management and use of forests. Forest ecology is not forestry as interpreted by the Estonian Language Institute. Of course, it is possible and logical to interpret it more widely. Mr. Hepner shakes his head, so did I. I asked the Minister extra to confirm that the ecologists of the University of Tartu also have access to these data. He couldn't confirm it. Couldn't confirm. Why are we making laws where we really can't predict what their applied effects are? The chairman of the committee says that maybe before the third reading, something can be improved. Well, the Rules of Procedure, unfortunately, do not allow anything to be improved until the third reading. In essence, the reading of the draft must be interrupted in order to actually make these changes. Now, the topics of the forest register concerning the concealment of certain forest information about the forest property of natural persons. The principle is very simple: the Environmental Information Directive, the Aarhus Convention and the general constitutional framework are that environmental information is public, unless there are reasons to classify it or to restrict access to it. If this restriction on access is applied, there must be clear grounds for doing so, and it must take place in the minimum necessary way, not all of it immediately, but precisely what is necessary in order to protect this other interest. This other interest is, and it has been said, that there should be no aggressive sales offers, robot inquiries, forest owners, etc. There's a lot of problems opening up here. The Data Protection Inspectorate in the Commission also expressed its view, myself and many other parties, that this issue could be resolved in a less restrictive way. It is possible, for example, to rule out information technology robot requests, but it is also possible to make these data passively public, that is to say that they cannot be downloaded from the register, but they can be retrieved by submitting a request for information when we are talking about solving the problem of raccoons. All these issues were rejected without a substantive proportionality assessment, an adequate proportionality assessment, which is crucial from a constitutional point of view. Impacts have also not been assessed more widely. The Minister could not say today, for example, how many pieces of forest or plot of land, a piece of forest, for example. The explanatory memorandum states that there are pieces of wooded land with both a private owner and a legal owner whose records are closed by 2000. However, there are no data provided on the number of persons who are only natural persons. Not to mention the effects of this provision on environmental objectives by environmental organisations on behalf of all of us. So actually, I admit that we may need to adjust certain data in the forest register, to solve this problem, although I very much agree with Mr Seedri, who said I was sorry, but why not farmland. I'd look more broadly: we have buildings, residential buildings, real estate, everything in the register public. You can see where your apartment is, when it was built, basically its value, and make you a purchase offer. Then we need to look at this frame much more broadly, systematically, if we want to do some kind of restraint here. In such a fast-track way, through the back door of the second bill so fundamental changes are unacceptable. This is why the second reading of this draft must be interrupted and further discussed in the autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U488	Kalle Grünthal, please! Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U489	I have listened to this debate here today on this subject, and I will probably continue exactly as I have worked on other, previous drafts, so I will give you some vital examples. Maybe it opens up a wider horizon than, let's say, this purely kind of read-out of the norm. I'm visiting an old friend of mine. One minute the phone's ringing. Nana's going, she's picking up, and since I'm here, well, be a good guy, she's gonna put it on speaker. Honey sweet voice: "Hello! Are you the one and this one? Now, we're doing the woods in your vicinity, and maybe you're interested in doing some cutting on your piece of wood? And it wouldn't be too bad if you sold that piece of wood. Think, you're already an elderly person, which you're still holding out on him, maybe you can go somewhere else in Egypt. " Very cool. That's the kind of sweet honey we're talking about. I asked if it was a one-time offer. He said no, when, let's say, such active harvesting periods are, just before these active harvesting periods, this crowd of annoyers is pretty crazy. Of course, there are also systemic [callers] who simply walk all the time: can we call you back, etc. This problem is not absolutely just one person's. I've heard from many places, but practically every owner of the forest is sorted out like this, and suddenly he bites and manages to make some sort of deal with this lady or gentleman. I can see it's actually a system. The information on the basis of which this information is received shall be accessible to those forest undertakings or intermediaries or to any other person. That nana was most upset about where the hell they'd get her phone from. Well, it's unbelievable where they get it. But that means it will be. Here we are actually facing this problem, as Evgeny said, that you can see that forest ecologists cannot access this data at any cost, but it is possible to obtain it in the field of forestry. Well, clearly, they're the same ones who work up this forest. This is a very bad situation. And the bad situation is also because, among these so-called honest businessmen, there are actually those who try when they have become 'goods', that they can make some kind of deal, whether in terms of the cutting rights of the growing forest or in terms of some form of thinning or clear cutting, they try to set the volume of the growing forest several times smaller. I had a friend who needed to sell 2.5 hectares for financial reasons, make clear cutting. There was no beautiful tree, but there was, let's say, a pretty wonderful plywood offering in the birch tree and, of course, such other material. Their offer was EUR 16,000. Well, there was another 1,000, so it was 17,000. I said, wait, let's make a little bit of an estimate, then this wood will finally be moved to. We learned that most of the people who trade and trade timber here are still basically three producers. I'm not gonna say their names from this remote control, but they're the main buyers. I said we're gonna make such a joke that we're gonna try them directly, let's see what happens then. Interestingly, during the negotiations, the price was reached at 26,000, i.e. the sum of 10,000, which was won by this acquaintance because he did not go after the betrayal of those intermediaries. The question here is also that the availability of these data under the forest label also, in a sense, contributes to causing damage to individuals, because there are not many people who really appreciate this value of wood. Of course, even forest auction etc. is proposed, but it is a relatively more complicated process. Therefore, of course, very many individuals have suffered material damage. I know that there was also a [case] in the Järvamaa Kolu where, for a practically sandwich price, the forest was valued at some 30,000, and after the grandkids found out, the price was already 130,000. Well, they went to court too, and after a lot of toiletting, a normal deal was made. But what's behind all this? This is due to the protection of personal data and is regulated by the Personal Data Protection Act. And that's the kind of data that says phone numbers and e-mails and addresses, it's all available. They should not under any circumstances be used in the forest register data, because one thing is the forest register, the other is the personal data regulated by the Data Protection Act. After all, the Personal Data Protection Act sets out the specific cases in which the processing of personal data is permitted. These are: for journalistic purposes, as well as the processing of personal data for academic, artistic, literary self-expression, processing for research and historical research and the need for national statistics, and processing of personal data for archiving purposes in the public interest. Of course, a separate opera is also the processing of personal data by the law enforcement authority in preventing, detecting and processing an offence and in executing a sentence. But the most important thing is that we really don't know what's going to happen to those personal data that are already circulating in the so-called forestry sphere right now. This means that there is no controller responsible for ensuring that these matters are correctly done. I see a very serious problem here on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U490	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U491	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The forest has still been important to the Estonian people, but today, when discussing this bill with you, it can be said that it is only one part of our nature or our environment. Personally, the woodsman, of course, likes us to pick up the subject and debate it. But it would also be right to point out here that, indeed, they have also been called technical discussion, technical changes here in the various environmental registers EELSIS or KOTKAS, which will be implemented, they are also related to the forest, but their impact is much wider: the law on the ground, the law on water, the law on waste, the law on the protection of atmospheric air, etc. So this bill 292 is still much, much wider in effect. But let's focus on the woods. This is important, and I think that 90% of today's debate has formed a forest-related nature and, in turn, the vast majority of it is the SMI, or statistical forest inventory. Indeed, it has been done in the world for a century. She has come from Sweden, she has been working on this inventory in Estonia for 20 years and she has fully justified herself. I dare confirm that the people behind this inventory are forest scientists, are honest state officials, do not abuse the rights they have been given to them, work with their hearts, and there is no reason to mistrust them in that sense. The forest scientists of the Estonian University of Life Sciences are among the 50 best in the world. Such areas in Estonia will certainly fit on the fingers of one hand, which is among the 50 best in the world. In my opinion, this also confirms the rejection of this distrust. But let's see again. Once a mistrust has risen, you have to look in there a little bit deeper. Then why are we still secreting? It says here that we're secreting certain data. Maybe I'll give you a few examples to help you understand it better. Health records. On this basis, very important statistics are produced, which affects the well-being of the entire Estonian people, and this is crucial. However, we do not specifically demand the name of Jüri, Mari or Heik behind it, but we generalise and we do not distrust those who compile these statistics. We're not saying you're faking or you're lying. A few days ago we voted here and discussed, rather, this debate has been, of course, longer, ABIS-t... Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U492	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U493	... where we gather various data on a particular person. And we, at least those in this Chamber, didn't vote in favour. There are reasons why we didn't. We had risks: (a) whether they would not be abused in any way, or (b) these data would travel, become public. We must also think about the same issues here, particularly what happens when this data becomes public. One part of the data we have is public and we have stayed here long enough, too, and my previous speakers have also stopped on it, these are really offers to forest owners. Well, it won't be a week if no one calls. It won't be a week! He's a sweet talk or a dumb talk, but I'm sure he's pretty annoying at least for the person who understands what the value of the forest is. But, unfortunately, many do not appreciate it fairly and of course go into this trap. Of course, this law is also needed to correct this mistake. So, all in all, you could say that the sum of this bill is fine. Of course, some things can always be improved. You could agree with Evgeny Ossinovski on that. But if we look in the whole picture, in the collection, this is definitely the right step in the right direction. And since the question of what forestry is is has been raised here, perhaps at the end of the day, the point I am still saying is that forestry is an industry that deals with the sustainable production, use, preservation, renewal of forests and its resources, but also with the environment, ecology, that is, everything that we regard as forests. So in this sense, of course, it is important to pay attention and hold a debate and discuss how these data are dealt with, how these data are available and how reliable they are. Today I dare say from this speaker that the data in the Estonian forest register is reliable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U494	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U495	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Good morning, everyone! Here, a good colleague, Heiki Hepner, began by saying that the forest is very important to all of us. No doubt it is, but I see that there are now bigger forest fans and supporters left in this hall, and there are five or six of us here. Members of the Riigikogu have room for development, but the more we have to carry who we are here. I would like to thank the Chairman of the Committee on the Environment or the Chairwoman Yoko Alender and the Minister of the Environment, Tõnis Möldri, for the presentations they made. The reason why I am speaking here is that the technical side of the bill 292 has been prepared for years, and it was mostly in work while I was the Minister of the Environment. It is true that today we have been talking about this part of the SMI at this point, this is a completely new dimension, which has been added here and which was not here at first. In general, this draft is reasonable and the main reason why it was developed was to merge different environmental databases. Its aim was to cut red tape. That was the main reason why it was dealt with and dealt with for years. This is, in itself, very reasonable and will certainly make it easier for the [people] concerned who use this database to deal with the situation and to deal with it. However, if you come to the subject of the SMI, which is the new thing here, I do not really want to agree with those members of the Riigikogu who said today that all data must be indiscriminately free and that the state is currently hiding and hiding some data. Yes, in the ideal world, we all wish that all humans were beautiful and good, that there would be no evil, that no one would lie or be stolen or harmed. But the fact is that we still have people who sometimes want to manipulate environmental data, for example, for some reason. During my term of office, I met one person or another who told stories about how we have protected species planted in different places for years, so that one day, when the need or desire arises, some sort of plant could be discovered by chance, which would shut down a forest massif or give rise to a procedure for the creation of a possible nature reserve. Similarly, today there has already been mention of the different topics of protected birds and animals. Of course, in the big picture, all data could and should be free. However, unfortunately, even those who are fiercely fighting to cut Estonia's forests here today are not always perhaps the most honest either. So I think it makes perfect sense for those who need it in their daily work to get that data. Of course, it is reasonable that universities also receive this data, and I believe that there will also not be a problem for university ecologists to use it in their work. I don't think that's a problem. But, yes, I still want to point out that, unfortunately, certain people's actions have given little reason for disbelief, why I do not consider it reasonable that the data of the SMI test pieces be indiscriminately accessible to everyone. It still has to be based on some kind of regulation, and I am absolutely convinced that the Environment Agency will do so fairly and honestly and will keep track. And if it were to happen that someone feels that this is not the case, then I am absolutely convinced, by looking at this forest debate in the country as a whole over the last few years, that, though it is, that attention will be strongly drawn to this failure, and I think that this data will also be obtained from there and the necessary changes will be introduced. So in the big picture, this is a sensible bill and we are moving in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U496	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U497	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I won't talk for long. It's been a really good talk. It's been really interesting listening to all this. By the way, I have to compliment the social democrats, whose heart issues with regard to the forest are, in my opinion, very well thought out and were also well presented here. But forest is not only economic, forest is not only natural, forest is also social and forest is also history. In this regard, I would like to say this to Hando Runnel: "The forest is high, the forest is evil, many men died in the forest during the war, after the war. Some people still remember that. " Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U498	Mr. Ossinovski, do you have a request for a rejoinder? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U499	I think it should be two minutes. Thank you, Mr President. I was mentioned here in many speeches, I thank you for these remarks. But I would respond more directly to Mr Hepner, with whom we have still had an argumentable and sensible debate on this subject, even if we have had a different view. Firstly, as far as this forest register is concerned, no one is arguing about this issue in itself, so that it is possible to try to control these aggressive types of sales with robot queries in the forest register. As has been said, in fact, there are fewer measures and opportunities to restrict access to environmental information, but they have not been implemented without a substantive analysis, unfortunately. That's the first aspect. The second aspect, of course, I was just reviewing, I have a contact record on my cell phone like marketing, there are 30 phone numbers that I don't accept. Well, we all know that once a week they sell or try to sell you something you don't want to buy. And as Mr. Seeder said earlier, with farmland and real estate, they do exactly the same thing as with the forest. A bit of other people, but basically this is the same thing, so it has not simply been used here as the'minimum' principle of limiting access to information that is necessary in a democratic country. In the context of the SMI data, Mr Hepner, I really hope that this definition of forestry will be interpreted more widely, but unfortunately the Minister for the Environment could not confirm this to us today. Consequently, given that we are currently failing to do the third reading, we cannot do it, it would be appropriate to interrupt the second reading and then resolve these technical nuances there so that everyone can understand in the same way. I think it would be very important and correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U500	Mr. Hepner, rejoinder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U501	Thank you. Indeed, with Mr Ossinovski, I think we have had a meaningful debate here. Well, I didn't take part in the work of the Committee on the Environment, but some things might have been different. I have no doubt that Tartu forest ecologists will not be able to access this data. Still, I'd say they'd have to make sure they didn't run the data themselves. It's a two-way street, that's pretty clear. And the other thing, of course, is that we here may be able to avoid these bidders. I have, I think, tried hundreds of times to buy this cutting right and the land and God knows what, of course [something] to sell. I may be hard to influence, but there's actually a much older generation with whom it can be done. So this is actually a serious issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U502	I'm closing the negotiations. Now, with the freshness of the morning, we will also examine the amendments to this draft, which are 11, all by the commission and taken fully into account. The first amendment, the lead committee, has taken full account of it. No, it wasn't Martin Helme, in the sense he's not in the hall. I'm a little confused. [[H. Fieldace is talking about the hall.]] Well, it could really happen in the morning that you're sitting in the wrong place, yeah. Often that can happen. Mr. Pierce, you still have a wish to say something about yourself.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U503	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Thank you first and then I would ask you to vote on this amendment, and I would also ask for a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U504	We all need morning gymnastics in ten minutes, so morning gymnastics in ten minutes. Break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U505	Ladies and gentlemen, I say hello to the faces in the hall. We are now reviewing Amendment 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, with fresh freshness and freshness in the morning, which has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. Now I ask you, too, to take a stand on this and to give an opinion. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U506	41 members of the Riigikogu supported the proposal. Nobody opposed it, so the proposal has been supported. Let us move on to the second amendment tabled by the Committee on the Environment. I think Henn Pier wants to say something. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U507	Yes, I do. Thank you. I also ask for this amendment to be voted on and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U508	Please, ten minutes of recess!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U509	Ladies and gentlemen, ten minutes have passed unnoticed and we are going to vote on the second amendment tabled by the Committee on the Environment and by the Steering Committee, surprisingly, it has also been fully taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U510	49 in favour, no objectors and no abstentions. The proposal was supported. Amendment 3, tabled by the Committee on the Environment and fully taken into account. Mr. Pier.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U511	Yes, Mr. Pevkur! I am also asking for this amendment to be voted on, and before this ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U512	I understand clearly your request. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U513	Dear colleagues, please take a position on the third amendment tabled by the Committee on the Environment and taken full account of it itself. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U514	Result: by 42, against 1. The proposal was supported. Ladies and gentlemen, the story now is that it is 9:31 and 48 seconds. Given that we have worked very hard here, our body would certainly need some cheering, and the information system of the Riigikogu will also need 28 minutes for the 10 o'clock session in the morning, which is already a whole new session. I'll see you at the meeting at 10:00 on Thursday!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U515	Ladies and gentlemen, Let's start the June 16th briefing. We're going to run a presence check first. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U516	Currently 20 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present. Today's Question Time is attended by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, Minister of Education and Science Liina Kersna and Minister of the Environment Tõnis Mölder.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U517	All right, let's get to Question Time right now. But I would remind you that there are two minutes to ask the question, and ministers have three minutes to answer. The first question is Jevgeni Ossinovsky. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U518	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! My question concerns Bill 156, which allows the combustion of wood in Narva boilers to be subsidised. This draft has been planned for the second reading in the Riigikogu after a long empty stand. There has been a very robust procedure here for this draft, i.e. the substantive effects have not been assessed, legal analysis has not been carried out. Very ugly procedure style in itself. But my question to you, as head of government, concerns the principle of this matter. Indeed, it is not the first time that we have spoken to you on this subject. For example, in Question Time on 27 January 2021, you said so, I quote yourself: "I, too, do not consider burning wood in these boilers to be right. This is not good from the point of view of the Estonian forest, from the point of view of Estonian nature, and it is basically not right, it does not fulfil the objective that the use of renewable energy sources should bear." Well, now it is, I understand, the interests of Estonian nature and forest in some broader coalition deal against some other political interests. Could you explain to Parliament and to the public what this change of mind has come from? What was the welfare of Estonian nature, the welfare of Estonian forests as a coalition deal?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U519	Thank you. I still don't think it's right to burn wood in the kettle. And that can't be the case in the long run. Our views have been very different in this regard, and we had very thorough debates on this subject. The main concern is, firstly, whether there will be pressure to cut more wood to use in Auvere and, secondly, what problem we will actually solve. The compromise is that we have a fair transfer fund that provides money for the construction of a cogeneration plant in Narva in order to overcome the constant problem of Narva's heat and that we do not have any socio-economic concerns there. It will take time to build this cogeneration plant, and in the meantime there will be pressure on the price of Narva's heat, as the production of energy by using oil shale is very carbon intensive. Since the energy produced in this energy block also has to buy a CO2 emission quota and it has recently made a very high price increase, the combined production of electricity and heat is no longer profitable and the price in Narva is rising. At the moment, the compromise is that only waste wood can be used. And I've got those prices right here. In fact, this does not mean that more timber will be cut. Secondly, there is a limit for two years, precisely to create a cogeneration plant to provide heat to Narva. Thirdly, the permissible diameter of the wood waste is fixed. As the subsidy has a price cap of EUR 10 Megawatt-hour, a ceiling of 500 gigawatt-hours and a time limit of two years and a State aid permit has been granted, this grant will only allow the use of the lowest priced fuel, i.e. waste wood with a minimum price of EUR 7,98 per megawatt-hour and the highest price of EUR 12,9 per megawatt-hour. This means that no wood other than what is left over can be used at this price. But [after] I can continue to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U520	Yeah, Evgeny Ossinovski has a very specific question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U521	You also said yourself that this change, which has been made, also concerns Auvere Station. That is, in fact, the very big and fundamental change that the government has presented. While the production of the 11th block of the Baltic Power Plant has so far been discussed in cogeneration mode, the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Economic Affairs allows trees to be burned in all oil shale plants regardless of cogeneration. This is an even more ridiculous waste of primary energy. Along with the elimination of this restriction on cogeneration, in fact, the volume limit you referred to will be removed from the law by 500 gigawatt-hours. According to the law, it will remain completely free, and the government will be able to decide by discretionary decision how much less the offer is. Of course, it can be said that the volume of felling does not increase, as only wood waste may be used, but these wood waste is also on the market to a limited extent. And if there is a new consumer who consumes at least 0.6 million cubic metres for the production of the same 500 gigawatt-hours as the volume is larger, then it is clear that it must come at the expense of something or someone: either the warm price will increase for all other Estonian consumers or the additional cuttings will have to take place either in Estonia or outside Estonia. But my second question concerns this warm question of Narva. I have seen that the members of the Reform Party here have said very boldly: thanks to this draft, the heat price will no longer rise. Could you introduce this analysis? We in the Commission have not been made aware of this. My calculations don't confirm that. Given that 70% is oil shale with a quota price of more than EUR 50, the rate of aid for wood is only EUR 10 per megawatt-hour, my estimate is that this bill has an effect on Narva's heat, if not microscopic, still a beautiful small one.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U522	Thank you. First of all, my mistake, I'm so sorry. This is not Auvere Station, it is indeed the 11th energy block of the Baltic Power Plant. I said Auvere probably because I'm always used to talking about Auvere. No, that's not right. The 11th energy block of the Baltic Power Plant is correct, providing district heating for the city of Narva, and it is only for this block to solve this problem. I admit that my question, too, was that, if the problem is the price of Narva's thermal power, then is there any other solution, even a regional measure that could be used instead? It is as if we are using the solution for a completely different problem, and perhaps it could be done in a simpler way. And the analyses that MKM did said there were no such solutions, so it's not really possible. Coming to the price of Narva's heat, yes, the price of Narva's heat has risen. The price of heat rose by 20% already, and actually it's going to rise again. There's no way this isn't gonna go up at all. It is just that the socio-economic situation in Narva is quite different than in other parts of Estonia, and secondly, we need to look at how much this price is rising. Given this quota price and taking into account everything that comes from the Baltic Power Plant now, the rise would be too steep. Given the situation in Narva and elsewhere in Ida-Virumaa, it is still a desire to keep the price of Narva's heat to a bearable level. Like I said, it's a temporary solution. This is only to create a new cogeneration plant based on the money provided for by the Fair Transfer Fund, which already offers heat, and to solve some of the problems. There would also be new production capacity, which, according to the Electricity Market Act, makes sense. And from the point of view of the money from the fair transition fund, it makes sense because it is giving some kind of energy turn to move from oil shale to renewable energy sources. But I would also stress: this is a temporary solution and, unfortunately, better solutions to this situation have not been proposed at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U523	As has already been the case in Question Time, we will also allow an additional question to be submitted in addition to the questioner for all questions. Heiki Hepner gets the floor this time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U524	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! In fact, there are a lot of low quality energy wood in our forest, which, unfortunately, today cannot be used for any other purpose. Well, I'm just going to say, for example, that we have a circa of 30 million cubic metres and a large part, the vast majority of it goes to heat. So that is why I rather welcome the fact that we have finally reached the point of using wood at Narva stations as well. Here's my question to you. We know that we are going to discuss the draft on this today and that the two-year period has been written in. Can you confirm to forest owners that there will be an "efficient cogeneration plant" there in two years' time? Because indeed, this decision concerns a very, very large number of forest owners, families of very many forest owners and their income.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U525	Thank you. These investments are still made by the private sector, but we have the appropriate money from the Fair Transfer Fund, which can only go to support such a cogeneration plant, to build it. This is definitely a plus for the private sector to make such an investment. We are also under time pressure from the use of money. I cannot say for sure now and swear here that in two years' time it will be there, but all efforts have been made and will be made. It should not, in itself, take so long to set up this cogeneration plant, so I hope that it will be there in two years' time. The initiative quite exists and we hope that this pressure, as well as the time constraints on this specific measure, will help to make this investment faster.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U526	I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U527	Next, Anti Poolamets asks about free movement between Finland and Estonia. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U528	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! You yourself have been actively speaking about travel restrictions recently. In one way, I understand Finland, as regards the fact that we were recently the first in the world to be infected, in a bad way. But now the situation is different, but despite the letter of the members of the Riigikogu and despite your letter, nothing has really changed. I wonder what arguments have come from the Finnish side. Then what is it? The current level of infection has fallen completely, and we could start living more normally. What's the point? What's the reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U529	Thank you. Indeed, we have had a great deal of contact with our Finnish colleagues at various levels, while I have been in contact as Prime Minister, you have made an appeal to the Finnish Parliament as a parliament, and we also have regular contacts and meetings between the ministries of foreign affairs, social affairs, health services, internal ministries and other relevant authorities where these issues are discussed. What are the concerns? As you said, our epidemiological situation has been worse than in Finland. In Finland, infection rates have always been lower and they have also kept these rates very low. Why is that? I guess it's a longer analysis. I am very interested, in fact, in this whole picture of the world, why is it that in some countries there are no strict restrictions, yet the infection is low, while in other countries everything is closed, but the infection is still greater. There is such a concept as cultural maturity, i.e. some societies are simply different in their cultural maturity levels. But what are the reasons? So far, these have been epidemiological justifications, just as the infection rates are different. In some ways, Finland is also trapped in its good indicators, because, in any case, if they open the borders, the infection will increase. It makes sense. The question is how much it increases or what risk it poses. Do we wish and think that we can completely overcome this virus, or do we fail, which means that we have to get used to some level? Our sense is that we have to get used to some level, we can't really eradicate it. To that end, there are also all the measures that we have been thinking about living with this virus. So, basically, there are epidemiological grounds. For our part, we have tried to bring different measures, such as asking for a negative test on ships, not being allowed on board at all before you, to take these concerns off the Finnish side as well, and to show that we are cooperative. We certainly want our free movement to continue to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U530	Anti-Semiamets, please specify the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U531	I read a comment from someone who said that Finns are very stubborn and should not be pushed too hard on them, so they tend to avoid this pressure. I find it difficult to comment on whether this is the case. But what other steps could be taken during this summer? After all, it would be very healthy for Estonian tourism, Finnish tourism and everyone if the movement became more free. I am just thinking about the diplomatic steps taken by the Prime Minister, the Government and the Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U532	Yeah, thanks! I think the Finns are just as stubborn as the Estonians, we are still a fellow nation, and we certainly have a lot of common features, maybe you can take it as a positive line. We have meetings and constant communication. We will express our concerns to the Finns and try to understand their concerns. The same thing I said that if their concern is mainly linked to the epidemic, we have proposed that control should already be on ships, because the traffic between us is mainly about ships. Let's think about how we can deal with these problems so that we can still get the free movement to work. I will meet with the Prime Minister of Finland next week when we have the European Union Council, where we can talk about these issues again, but we will have meetings between all those involved in the past. Continuous communication also exists between governments, at ministerial level, to resolve these concerns. We are trying to do everything in such a way that we can work on the free movement of people and, at the same time, we can still get along well with our neighbours.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U533	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U534	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Of course, everything you have read here today that Estonia has done, both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and you and the government, as well as our other authorities, in order to facilitate movement and labour migration between Finland, is very positive and commendable. On the other hand, it is perfectly understandable why Finns have imposed these restrictions. If we look at Finland's infection rates, these restrictions have justified themselves from their point of view, as Estonia has still had a higher rate of infection in repeated and repeated cases. Here, in fact, the government could have done a great deal by keeping the levels of infection lower, even so that rapid tests were carried out in our ports, airports and everywhere. Somehow the government didn't want to do that. And we have come in with all sorts of new mutations that have actually delayed this opening of borders. But now you have taken a step forward and published in Finnish newspapers such a reprimand to Finland. It's actually completely unprecedented. Our media, as well as the Finnish media, say that as a result Estonian-Finnish relations are more tense and worse all over the ages. Do you consider your step justified? Can you imagine that the Prime Minister of another European country would pick up and start pointing his finger at you in our media and admonishing you? I mean, that would be totally unprecedented. How would you react to such a thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U535	Thank you. You probably have not read my address because there was absolutely no fingertips, but it was a request to understand the concerns of Estonians who work in Finland, but whose families are in Estonia who have not seen each other for months and whose children have not seen their parents for months. It was a request to understand the concerns that our Estonian people have. It is the responsibility of the Estonian Prime Minister to stand up for his people. On the contrary, I have done so in a very friendly way, using all the means we have. Finland-Estonia's relations are certainly strong, because they survived even when a member of the Estonian government called directly to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Finland. After that, however, relations with Finland still work perfectly well. I wanted to say this about these mutations: it is interesting that the mutations that have come to Estonia, such as the LAV strain, have come from Finland to us, and this is the way it has now been identified. What does it show, in fact, this whole picture of Europe? None of the countries will be exposed to these mutations. And if there is such a dominant strain, then this dominant strain will eventually take over the strain that is currently in the country. This has happened everywhere. Viruses are, as scientists have explained to us, living organisms fighting to survive. And to survive, they mutate. To date, the main question is whether vaccines work for these new strains. That's the main problem. If the viruses spread faster, but the vaccines still work, the only cure is human vaccination. That's what we do all the time. At the moment, we have no knowledge that these new strains will not respond to the vaccine. If we have such knowledge, if we get such knowledge from scientists, then it must certainly be taken into account again in assessing this whole epidemiological situation, imposing restrictions and also in organising vaccinations.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U536	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U537	Let's move on to question three. The questioner is Heiki Hepner and the question is for the Minister of the Environment, Tõnis Möldr. Spring summer felling. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U538	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, This spring brought us a lot of confusion in the forest sector when, without a transitional period, it was decided to change the current legal practice and to stop the rays in the spring summer. In southern Estonia, this has already led to people being sent on forced leave. It is also known that claims against the country are being considered. My question here: why did we choose to deal with the problem of this kind of equestrian attack? And what's really going to happen in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U539	Thank you. To begin with, I would like to congratulate you on the fact that you have set up a working group on forestry in the Riigikogu. I think that this morning's seminar or debate also showed that there is a great desire and willingness in Parliament to speak on the subject of forestry. Forestry is not only nature conservation and the economy; forestry also has a huge cultural and social value. What you are now talking about, and what you are asking about, as regards nesting peace and the suspension of cuttings, I would like to start by mentioning that there has been no change in legal practice in recent years. We continue to have the Nature Conservation Act, the Forest Act and the Animal Protection Act. They regulate the issue of bird nesting in particular. The important thing here is to turn the emphasis precisely on the fact that it is forbidden to deliberately destroy and damage the wild birds' nests and eggs, and I stress the word 'intentional', or to dispose of the nests. Similarly, deliberate disturbance is prohibited, especially during nesting and rearing. This interpretation of will has remained unexplained at different times. I dare say that the change in practice that the Environmental Board has adopted this year does not coincide with good administration practice. However, I would point out that the Environmental Board cannot and cannot fail to respond to any complaint that they receive in essence. Above all, it should be assessed whether this activity will have any impact on achieving the favourable status of our birds, whether it will have a positive or a negative impact. A total of 232 complaints have been filed this year as of yesterday. The forest sector is not the only one affected, it concerns other sectors as well. The Nature Protection Act says that disturbance must be seen as a whole, including the agricultural sector, but there are 131 complaints from the forestry sector and, in total, forest management activities have been stopped in more than 37 locations. It will undoubtedly have an economic impact on the forestry sector, but I think it will also have an impact on the bird's favourable status. I have sent a letter of formal notice to the Environmental Board and asked them to follow the recommendations of this letter of formal notice. I sincerely hope that the Environment Agency will stick to this in the months that follow.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U540	Heiki Hepner, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U541	Thank you. Indeed, it is very positive that it is now taking some time to think and taking away this hurrah-optimism. We know that in the state forest this so-called felling peace or the suspension of spring summer logging is taking place. It turns out that it is actually unique in Europe; other countries have not gone along with it. At the same time, we also know that in southern Europe, our songbirds are literally put in the pot; they are caught with glue, though irons, but with nets. The last option is to use us to ring, but it's for different purposes. And here's my follow-up question. Do you agree that the measures that we should implement are proportionate and effective and should not undermine the competitiveness of the Estonian forest sector compared to other European countries and also to the countries of the world? Should a socio-economic analysis be carried out before the next steps are taken and also find out how effective it has been so far to ban logging in the state forest, i.e. the management of nesting forests? Perhaps there are methods that give a better result, but do not require such steps, for example, in a private forest?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U542	Thank you. I would like to begin by congratulating the State Forest Management Centre, which has indeed volunteered for the last few decades in the state forests from 15 April to 15 June for cutting peace. As of yesterday, this felling peace ended. This does not mean that RMK does not respect the Nature Conservation Act. Undoubtedly, in his subsequent work, when he plans them, he adheres to the principles of the Nature Conservation Act. In my letter to the Environmental Board, I marked four points. I think it is important to go over them again here to assess whether the complaint received by the Environmental Board is substantive and to respond accordingly. On-the-spot inspections should be carried out and, in cooperation with landowners and other authorised representatives, it should be decided whether the economic activities carried out there on a particular plot of land are linked to the disturbance of birds. And once these facts have been clarified, it is essential to suspend the economic activity there, if necessary. At the same time, it must be assessed whether to do so throughout the territory or only in the area where this nesting is specifically located. The fourth, or last, is that the Environmental Board must, as far as possible, meet the so-called balance point of the various sectors and find as reasonable solutions as possible to them in order to review the activity of nesting individual logging birds prior to the start of forest management. Now, one of the issues that you also asked about in your question, and which I very much welcome, is that we should open up the Nature Conservation Act in the near future, and precisely there to clarify what we understand under the nesting reef, what we understand under the felling reef and what is the deliberate destruction. If we have held this debate here in the Riigikogu Hall, it will, I think, give a clear signal to the whole forestry sector as well as to nature conservation organisations, as well as a clearer guide to the Environmental Board, which, according to the current law, will have to monitor it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U543	And now there's a matter registered on the spot. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U544	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister of the Environment! At the beginning of the week, several organisations of people with special needs and organisations of people with reduced mobility approached us with concern about groups of tourists run by nature guides. I understand that this question is not about the felling of spring summer, but I would have asked about the sixth point on the balance between the functioning of nature conservation and survival. And I'll accept it if you can't answer the question that's been raised in the Evening Paper today. This concerns the landscape protected area of the Kostivere karst area and the heritage protected area of Rebala, or symbol landscape, where different groups, such as children's groups, groups of people with special needs as well as groups of older people, go with nature guides. There has been a conflict over land rented from the state, surrounded by an electric fence. There's a mountain cattle grazing. There's a conflict between the local parish and the person renting this land. Really, you can say go somewhere else and look for other paths, everything has been agreed with RMK and the Environmental Board. But I would have a very big request: if you cannot answer immediately, please answer me in writing about this concern, because it seems that this problem is quite acute. I read this morning what was put up in the media and now I understand better about the concerns of those who turn, because [more than] only a few callers on Monday. Are you aware of this situation? If not, why don't you fill yourself in and send me a reply in writing?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U545	Thank you. I can't tell if I'm familiar with the level of detail you are. You're always honored that you're going to be very detailed about these things. As regards this particular Kostivere karst area and the beautiful nature reserves located there, I had a small discussion yesterday with representatives of Jõelähtme rural municipality. I have also met with the Chairman of the RMK on this issue and asked for some sort of solution to this matter. Yes, one way I understand that RMK has given this land to rent in good faith, and the landlord will do it there, I think, in good faith. I don't dare say all the details in my head right now. We need to understand that the natural value that is there must be protected and preserved, but at the same time people must be offered the opportunity to enjoy this natural place and to have it visited, especially those groups of tourism, also people with special needs who are used to going there. So here we have to find some sort of sensible solution or balance. Yesterday, when I met representatives of Jõelähtme, I heard that one of their proposals was somehow to find a compromise between the tenant, RMK and the state. Perhaps one option really is to give this land to the municipality and then the municipality itself would take responsibility and role for it. But what exactly is the solution, it's still too early to say. We will certainly be working on this and, if this solution arises, I will be happy to let you know in writing too.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U546	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U547	Let us move on to the fourth question that Jaak will put to White Prime Minister Kaja Kallas on immigration into Estonia. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U548	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I'm actually worried about a very fundamental question for the nationalists here. And what to deny here is also one of the main reasons why I myself am sitting here in the Riigikogu at all, why I applied here. The reason is immigration to Estonia, which is so large that it threatens the Estonian nation state, and our already exceptionally large or complex integration problem becomes even more complex. We have now grown exceptionally fast in terms of learning and labour migration and related family migration. About 9,000 people from Eastern Slavic cultural space and Asia-African countries settled in Estonia in 2019 and 2020 more than they left. In fact, there is no doubt that learning mobility is not beneficial for Estonia in this form either, but the widespread use of low-cost labour prevents innovation in the economy and suppresses the wages of our people. The previous government brought quite comprehensive drafts to Parliament to regulate immigration, but your government removed them from the procedure. I, too, recently tabled a draft regulation on immigration, but it was also voted out by the coalition. I compiled my draft on the basis of earlier drafts, true, I changed the thresholds and the explanatory memorandum, but I think I may have spent a whole day on it. Here's the question. The Ministry of the Interior has all the data and drafts available. So if our bill didn't work out, you could file your bill as soon as possible. It still hasn't been done in five months. And the question is, are you satisfied with this situation and you don't want to do it? Or if not, why does it take so long?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U549	Thank you. Yeah. I'm looking at these numbers too, and it's actually my big question that if this has been your concern and you've been in the government for two years, why didn't you do anything about it? But if we look at short-term work or even long-term residence permits, then in fact, if we compare, for example, you highlighted learning from 2019 to 2020 when 2019 had such permits from 1330, then by 2020 there were 533. Perhaps COVID has certainly influenced the coming here to learn. People come to Estonia mainly for the purpose of working and studying. The restrictions on residence permits are enshrined in the law. In addition, we have a limit that applies to residence permits, but does not apply to short-term work. What have we thought, and what steps have we taken? The big question is, for example, preventing tax fraud by having workers who come as temporary agency workers. On 3 June, the Ministry of Finance sent a draft to the coordination circle aimed at ensuring fairer competition and reducing the share of tax fraud in the construction sector. Basically, if I am just trying to explain it like that, then there is also the electronic registration of these employees to know who is responsible for those people who are specifically the people who work here. This is the way to control them and send them back if necessary. We will also start electronic registration of builders to identify potential people who are here but who are not authorised to do so. In this sense, I agree with you that any migration must be controlled and that this control must be in the hands of the Estonian state. That is why we are taking appropriate steps.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U550	Mr. White, you don't have a specific question? Then Mr. Kaskpeit asks. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U551	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I have walked here several times from the apartment to the Riigikogu, and one day I counted the Bolt food carriers who came to meet. There were seven or eight of them. All those wheels were driven, you could say, niggers. It's amazing for me. After work, I'm sure they'll be communicating with our girls because I haven't seen any dark girls around here. What is the purpose of your government in this activity? Is it that our people will become dark in the future, or what?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U552	Firstly, I would like to say that, following such a comment, for example, in the European Parliament, an envoy was fined by the fact that he was deprived of his daily allowances. This is certainly offensive and I do not think it should be appropriate in the parliament of the Republic of Estonia either. But first of all, since I have the Minister of Education and Science here, he gave me more direction to answer Jaak White's question. Need-based support for students from third countries we have lost or, I mean, it is in the process of losing, this draft will come to the government in August and is currently in the coordination circle. Perhaps it is still important that we look at the whole higher education landscape so that we can still agree on what kind of students we expect at Estonian universities. This is actually a broader discussion of how our higher education is holding up now. Coming now to the question of Uno Kaskpeit, if we have these Bolt and Wolt food couriers, it's probably because people are using these services. Especially during the COVID crisis, when people were forced to stay at home and the restaurants were closed, the orders at home supported the survival of Estonian entrepreneurship and the functioning of Estonian restaurants. The question of why [these] people do this work. Maybe they'll do it while they're studying or something. So how is this work supposed to be arranged? If there is demand for this, then there is also a supply of such a service that people need and such a service people also consume.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U553	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U554	Let's take the next one. Aivar Kokk asks Prime Minister Kaja Kallas about looking after the interests of homeowners.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U555	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U556	Mr. Chef, I'm very sorry for a moment, but Henn Põllea has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U557	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. At the beginning of the hearing, you said that...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U558	One issue registered on the spot.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U559	... there are three questions in total and...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U560	No, I said one on-site question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U561	...and I had a third question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U562	Mr. Pier, I said one issue registered on the spot. After all, this practice was exactly the same in your time: he who asks the question gets one question, one question to be specified, and then there is one question registered on the spot. But if we move forward nicely, we have three questions left, we will definitely have a free round of questions, so that Mr Põllea will be able to ask the Prime Minister again immediately in the round of other questions. So I think if Mr. Pier matches the option of asking as an eighth, or if he's fast-fingered, then we can move on. Here you go, Mr. Pier.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U563	Thank you. Yeah, I really do have that chance. But I wanted to make it clear that indeed this was the case: when someone else could ask a third question in addition to the main questioner, but if the main questioner did not have that particular question, then usually the second question came out of the hall, so there were three in total. But that was just a clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U564	Aivar Kokk can now ask his question about protecting the interests of homeowners. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U565	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! Under the current law, a natural person has the right to deduct from the income the interest on the loan or lease of a dwelling or a dwelling taken as a dwelling. Interest on a loan or lease of only one dwelling may be deducted at the same time. If the dwelling is co-owned (i.e. the dwelling has two owners) and both persons are also loan applicants, the interest on the mortgage can be declared and deducted from the income both in proportion to the share of the property. In the case of loans taken from 2005 onwards, interest may be deducted from income only if the dwelling has been purchased as a place of residence. Today we are going to discuss here the draft law amending the Income Tax Act, which will abolish this right for our homeowners. And here's my question: why do you want to take away from our homeowners the right and the possibility to deduct from your taxable income interest on a loan or lease for a dwelling or a dwelling?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U566	Thank you. Such a mortgage interest tax credit was adopted in 1996. At the time, bank interest rates were really very high, 12% to 13%. The purpose of this advantage was for people to be able to buy a home in such a way that the capital market failure would not be in the form of excessively high interest rates behind which the purchase of their home would remain. In 1997, the [credit interest] rate was 12 to 13%, but now, in 2021, the interest rate is 2%. Perhaps this market failure will no longer exist. People get loans from banks on perfectly reasonable terms. Thus, the obstacle to obtaining housing is no longer a high borrowing rate that the state should contribute to, but something else. And actually, if we are looking at the real estate market now, there are no obstacles, rather it is estimated that the real estate market is overheating because everyone acquires a home. So, today, these interest rates have fallen over and no longer need state support, no need to use taxpayers' money to support these interest payments. This change will apply to next year's revenue. From now on, this deduction limit will apply only to training costs and donations. Again, the purpose of the tax credit is for people to make more donations. There is also lifelong learning and the deduction of training costs is therefore quite reasonable. I would also like to say that the OECD has also recommended the abolition of the housing loan interest tax credit tax credit because it benefits households with higher incomes in particular, i.e. it does not help people who are less financially insured, and thus increases inequality.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U567	Aivar Chef, please specify the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U568	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. I just want to point out here that the explanatory memorandum to this law is a little misleading. There will be no revenue or cost savings from the state here. In fact, the tax credit limit remains the same. You simply deprive the homeowner of the opportunity to decide for himself on which line he will use his tax credit, either on interest or on training and everything else. But I have another question. We have two drafts in the Riigikogu concerning the burdening of homeowners. How do you feel about homeowners having to maintain the municipality's green areas and walkways? As you know, under the law currently in force, the homeowner must maintain the green and pavement between his plot and the roadway. However, they are very different in some cornered homes, perhaps more than 100 metres, some have no pavements or green areas that they need to maintain, apartment buildings have it divided between apartments or have a service ordered. But we also have a great many elderly people and people with special needs who are unable to fulfil and pay for this responsibility, organised by the state and local authorities. How do you feel about that? Should each landowner keep his own land in order, or is it justified that homeowners have been given the burden of local governments?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U569	Thank you. Yes, maintaining the pavement has been the responsibility of homeowners. In some ways, this compromise also exists between the local government and the home owner, as the local government maintains large roads and areas that do not limit to any of its own properties. You said that many homeowners are elderly and people with special needs. After all, it is possible to actually apply for help from the local government. If such cases exist, the local government will certainly support these people so that they can maintain the property. It seems to me in the big picture that we all have our responsibilities here in Estonian society. Whether my home ends with my doorstep and everything that's beyond my doorstep is no longer my business, or whether all of Estonia is really our business, which we all keep together, it is perhaps a bigger environmental issue. It's a very big difference between mentality and attitude. If a person keeps his home in order, it is not related to the cleaning of the pavement, but, for example, is going to take the garbage somewhere under the forest, because it is not his problem, I think there is something wrong with the big picture. After all, we all live in this same Estonia and no more Estonia has been given to us. So everyone has their responsibilities. And in those places where it is too burdensome for the owner of the property because it is an elderly person or people with special needs, the local government should definitely come to the aid, just as, according to the law, the responsibility of the local government is to help those in need.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U570	And now on the spot, Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U571	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! Actually, my questions concern both your answers. I'll start with the loan interest rates. In some ways, it is very regrettable if we look at these types of solutions only in Tallinn-centred terms. Indeed, there is no problem with obtaining a loan in the golden circle of municipalities, but if we go a little further, it is actually not so [simple]. A higher own contribution is required, higher interest is required, as risks are also assessed. And indeed, in fact, this loan, let's say, the interest refund through income tax may be the language of weight, why a young family takes this rather long-term decision to build its own home a little further from Tallinn. That gives me my first question. What makes you think these kids are rich and shouldn't be supported? Isn't that what increases the social divide instead of reducing it? That was the first one. The second question then concerns the maintenance of sidewalks. All the municipalities, who think that this could still be continued in the old way, I would advise you to turn to the municipalities of Raplamaa and see how things are organised there. The question is not only that it is possible to impose some of the costs on the owners, but it is actually a completely practical issue of quality. Indeed, it is often the case that the parish pushes the road open, then pushes the owner... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Yeah, there's a question coming up. Then the owner clears the sidewalk and then the car comes back and pushes it off the road. Wouldn't it be wise to review it? I'm sorry for the time that's passed!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U572	Thank you. First of all, your first question is very correct. Outside Tallinn, there are other concerns. And this concern, in my opinion, is not solved by interest, but by the fact that access to capital is more difficult or that it is more difficult to obtain a loan outside Tallinn to buy properties. Because this guarantee, perhaps in the form of a house or a property, is not enough for a bank, given the market situation in the region. But it's not a matter of interest, it's that you don't get any credit. And this is the issue we have actually discussed in the government. We have discussed that a settlement programme should still be encouraged, helping and using the resources of the MES and KredEx to overcome this market failure. This is not only about people or families who want to settle outside Tallinn, but also about companies who wish to build their factories or to buy equipment outside Harju County or this golden circle. For them, this access to capital is simply limited because banks do not grant loans. I don't think that's gonna solve this interest. I am not saying that these are rich people, but that is what the OECD report says. In particular, this analysis which they have done says that this exemption from interest payments on a mortgage will benefit, above all, households with higher incomes, who do not really need such support, and this will increase inequality. This is an OECD study. Coming to your second question, the homeowner's gonna clear the road, but then the big car's gonna come and push the sidewalk back up. I admit that this is a problem, especially when moving in winter, especially for older people, especially for mothers moving with baby carriages. Men often drive cars, but women move along sidewalks to shops and kindergartens, etc. There is an interesting book about this, by the way, which says that this is the case: the local authorities are directing a lot of money to clean up the big roads, the big roads are for cars, but the people who walk are in a much worse position. How, then, can we reach an agreement, such as when the local government is clearing the road so that it does not push it full of what the family or homeowners have already cleaned up? I think there might be some compromise. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I don't know if this law will solve this situation. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U573	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U574	Let us move on to the sixth question put by Merry Aart to the Minister for the Environment, Tõnis Möldr. Balance between nature conservation and the functioning of life and survival.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U575	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! My question is due to the conversion of the rural and coastal peoples, as well as the recent ban of the European Parliament on keeping farm animals in cages. I don't know if there's any cattle or horses in the cage, but that's the way it is. We're planning to expand Alutaguse, and we can get 100 more people out of there, plus 500. There are 6,000 or a little more people in the field of forestry related to employment in Estonia. Goosemen are destroying agricultural production, including food, to quite a large extent. We have bears, lynxes and wolves in the woods. The wolves we protect eat sheep, calves, and dogs. But it's not like we're dealing with protecting them. Lately, I have heard quite a lot that people are no longer afraid to go into the woods because we also have a lot of lynx. What is the impact of such action on rural employment, on the state budget and, in fact, on the balance of nature? Can we get back to the peasantry at some point, or is that how we're going to go on with the hurrah?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U576	I don't think this is the first time we've spoken to you about this very subject in this briefing. Indeed, this writing by the representatives of the rural and coastal peoples points out that the functioning and survival of rural and coastal areas in Estonia should be insured, as should the income of people who work with it on a daily basis. So, as they claim in their letter, there are very few negotiation opportunities for the rural people and fewer opportunities to live in the countryside. Well, I'm sure to start by saying that we totally agree that man is a part of nature. The confrontation of two things - nature and human confrontation - does not benefit either man or nature. We need to learn how to live here the same way and work with this nature in the same way. For starters, it's about inclusion. In my opinion, what process we have been going through is that, by 2023, we must have reviewed all the protection rules in the restricted areas, means that we are actually taking stock of the protected areas, whether there are protected species, protected values, and, accordingly, making our own decisions. In the case of protected rules, we are always based on the fact that, if justified, we are indeed looking very clearly and prudently at whether to shift and increase the border of the protected area. But there are other examples. It was only a few weeks ago at the session of the Government of the Republic that we decided precisely to abolish certain protection rules and remove certain areas of land from protection because, after the inventory, it was found that there were no more protected species. In just a few decades, there have also been changes in nature. It is undoubtedly important for us to deal with such protection rules, with feedback from local residents, nature conservation organisations, as well as from local authorities. In the light of all these feedbacks, we will only then put this amendment to the protection rule on the agenda of the Government of the Republic and discuss it there. Now it's about Alutagus and Alutaguse. Here I dare say that no decisions have been made yet. This is a debate, the inclusion process is ongoing. I also had an interactive meeting with Alutaguse representatives and representatives of the Estonian Nature Foundation a few weeks ago. At this meeting, we agreed once again that during this month, I hope that, at the end of this month, there should be a moment in which I myself will go to meet the people of Alutaguse to review the subject matter of extending the protected land or extending the protected land of flying squirrels. We will review whether this is justified and what their feedback on the objectives that we, as the Ministry of the Environment and the Environmental Board, have put into nature protection.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U577	Merry Aart, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U578	Thank you for your answer. I've already received some answers from this morning's event, but I'd still like to ask you a few more questions. As far as I am concerned, we also depend very much on the agencies and officials, or inspectors. A lot of people have different opinions about things, and that is really what people do and work, as well as their attitude towards the country and this area. Do our agencies, say, like the Environmental Board, also organise such inspectors' trainings so that inspectors across Estonia, for example, can maintain a little humanity, maintain a little peasant wisdom, find a little balance, or really do what they think they do, as they feel? This happens quite often not only in the case of the Environmental Board, but also in the case of other agencies.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U579	Thank you. I think that not only the Environmental Board, but all those working in the public sector should start by following the laws and regulations in force in their work and in their activities, but should not lose sight of the human aspect and, as you yourself said very nicely, of the wisdom of the peasant. I think that a reasonable balance also needs to be found with regard to the environment and nature conservation. Looking for this balance is always very difficult in that compromise means that no party is satisfied to the end and not happy to the end. Compromise means everyone gets a little, but at the same time, they make some concessions. Now, what concerns this conversion of the coastal people and the rural people. I would like to emphasise a number of things here, which I think are very important. If we are restricting certain areas of land, we should also talk about this issue of compensation. Indeed, we are now also paying financial contributions in Natura 2000 areas where we have implemented restrictions. We have also granted them exemptions from land tax. But for me, as I have also said, one of the goals is really to find additional resources to get additional resources for countries outside the Natura 2000 area and to compensate people in a certain sense. It is undoubtedly important that we, as a country, transfer certain lands that are subject to conservation restrictions. There's been some argument about this. This week, too, brought here a very clear ruling by the Supreme Court, which concerns precisely the fair price of the land with which the state disposes of it. There have been very long debates and dialogues about this. I think this Supreme Court decision still needs some settling and deliberation, but in itself it gave us a clear guideline in that sense that the state has to deal with compensation. Whether by selling at a fair price, it is as if this court settlement does not report to us, but it is certainly also a forum for discussion. And just as I have said, and as the people of Alutaguse have actually emphasised several times, compensating or replacing land, we call it a beautiful word, if it is the desire to hold a political debate in Parliament, then I welcome this debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U580	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U581	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Balance and conservation have always been the concern of hunters, as we know. You and I have talked a lot about these things, because hunters are really powerful, and they're actually doing a good job. Indeed, they do a good job in an organized manner and help the country solve a number of problems that would otherwise cost the country quite good money. Here's the thing, because we have a question of extending the leases of hunting grounds, we've been sitting together and discussing things. The problem is, of course, that the view of the leaders of the private forest federation on how to extend them is one, but the vision of the hunters is another. Our wish is still 50 + 1 with the owners of all countries to resolve this matter, so that no one can say, the kind of interest that will ultimately discourage our hunters. The second thing is that, if, from somewhere, how to say, the hunting councils are going to reorganize this thing, I don't think that's right either. The best thing is that hunting councils still have, say, a nonconsensual, but still a majority chance to take certain decisions. That's how we solve a lot of problems. Once again, I would like your opinion on these issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U582	Thank you. Indeed, as far as the hunting sector is concerned and what is happening recently in the hunting sector, I, too, consider this to be a very important topic at the moment. In the last month and a half, I have had four meetings with the private forest federation, representatives of landowners, representatives of the Hunters' Society, precisely at the same table. The State Forest Management Centre, the Environmental Board and the Ministry of the Environment have also been at the table to find a compromise between all parties. I think that hunting in Estonia must be respected; it must be kept high in the sense that these people are doing the job right, well and necessary for the country. At the same time, however, we must all respect the landlord and find certain compromises here. During these four different meetings we have moved, I think, step by step closer to compromises. At the end of this week, I have another meeting with them. I have personally taken the initiative to find a compromise from a few important aspects. One thing I'm sure is what I've said to landowners, that taking a rent for hunting doesn't make me feel right. I think that rent is not justified in this form, because if we start charging rent for hunting and land use, hunting in Estonia will be so expensive that many hunting sectors will collapse. However, I do consider it reasonable to take over the practice of managing the state forest here, so that the damage caused by game is indeed compensated or compensated. There is certainly one important aspect here, namely that the landowner must allow these losses to be prevented, but if these losses occur, he will indeed be able to receive some compensation. Another important point, which we have also discussed for a very long time, is precisely what the percentage should be for contracts with private landowners. It's got 50 plus 1. As a minister, I have proposed that it be 1/3 of the total area of private land, hunting grounds. What agreement will it be as a whole? Some compromise solutions have also been proposed here, and these have been discussed at recent meetings. In this sense, I think it is right that we achieve a certain percentage, because it guarantees private landowners the opportunity to have a say in hunting on their land. And actually, it also shows that hunters respect for landowners.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U583	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U584	The next question is the seventh question that Kalle Grünthal will put to Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, and the subject is vaccination. Mr. Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U585	Thank you. Dear Question Time guest! I looked today at § 54 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and it says: "The duty of an Estonian citizen is to be loyal to the constitutional order and to defend Estonia's independence. If no other means are available, every Estonian citizen has the right to express his own-initiative resistance to the violent change of constitutional order. " I also looked at the comments. It says: "... The concept of constitutional order includes the functioning of state institutions (state authority) and the recognition of fundamental rights and human dignity. " There is also a reference to the concept of constitutional order, which is § 129, namely comment 4: "A violation of constitutional order may also be considered to be a situation where a constitutional institution or its holder, for a long time, comprehensively and systematically exceeds its powers, fails to fulfil its duties or prevents other institutions from carrying out their duties. "This is the result of a long introduction to § 18, which says: "No one shall be subjected to trials of medicine or science against his free will." Since there has been an absolute lack of discussion on this subject and no answers will ever be given, the EKRE submitted a draft for the criminalisation of medical and scientific trials. In the Committee on Legal Affairs, where I went to defend it, there was silence in this place, only one member of the Reform Party tried to stop an epidemiologist from talking. I also provided evidence there that such experiments were carried out without the consent of the people. And my question is: will it be possible, in this case, for people to resist on their own initiative, because this is a violation of an important fundamental right?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U586	Thank you. Paragraph 54 of the Constitution concerns that everyone has a duty to be loyal to the constitutional order and to defend Estonia's independence. "If no other means are available, every Estonian citizen has the right to express his own-initiative resistance to the violent change of constitutional order. "I suggest you read through the constitutional comments, this whole thick edition. It also lists what constitutional order means. The constitutional order of the Republic of Estonia is that we have free elections, resulting in the formation of 101 members of the Riigikogu. These 101 members have been elected in free elections. The Riigikogu elects the government, gives it a mandate. If the government has received a mandate in accordance with the Constitution, this government is legitimate. The constitutional order also includes that we have jurisdiction in the hands of the courts and that we have separation of powers. So these are different elements of constitutional order. What you're talking about, you've put together a lot of interesting things or different sections of the Constitution. Paragraph 124, to which you refer, concerns defence. Defence is a military service and everything to do with it. In that sense, these things aren't exactly related. Now, fundamental rights or constitutional order, I hope that you will also read the paragraphs that talk about constitutional order, which is exactly what it is. But the second aspect you pointed out is the right of a person to his or her life and health. In paragraph 16, [the letter that everyone has] the right to life is protected by law. No one must be tortured, cruelly or demeaningly treated, or punished, as well as the paragraph you referred to. These are people's fundamental rights, I'm not going to read them all about the Constitution. According to the Constitution, the people of Estonia have these rights, but not only the people of Estonia, but in fact, such principles are generally applicable to almost all parts of the world.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U587	Kalle Grünthal, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U588	Thank you! Thank you for your answer, Your Honored Question Time guest. But I have, of course, anticipated your recommendation to read through the constitutional comments. That is why I have asked this question. I would say, perhaps incorrect was your reference, which you used, § 124, which concerned national defence, because I spoke of the comments of § 129 (4). This concerned the concept of constitutional order resulting from § 54 of the Constitution. Well, that's your inaccuracies about this. But the question is still that I have provided evidence to the Committee on Legal Affairs that we are conducting medical and scientific tests. Antonina Järviste, an epidemiologist, who participated in the Committee on Legal Affairs, also made his assessment. And now comes my question. Mass vaccination without informing people, this is a scientific test. My question is, in this situation, where people are being subjected to tests, you have also expressed this on both the Kuku radio and the Estonian Television, the Estonian citizen has the right to object to a change of constitutional order on his own initiative. Because the institution of the Government of the Republic does not recognise the most important fundamental right, or § 18, which says that no one must be subjected to tests of medicine or science against his or her free will.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U589	Thank you. Your constructions show that reading the law doesn't always help you understand the law. Just in case, I'm reading this Article 129, which you're talking about here, maybe the people who listen to the Question Time don't understand. "In the event of a threat to the constitutional order of Estonia, the Riigikogu, acting by a majority on a proposal from the President of the Republic or the Government of the Republic, may declare the state of emergency throughout the country, but for a maximum period of three months. The organisation of emergency situations shall be laid down by law.' How does everything you've put together now relate to vaccination? Look, if there are different words, even different sentences, then in different contexts they may mean something entirely different. Please don't put words in my mouth that I haven't said! What a silly thing it is that I have spoken in Estonian Television that human attempts are being conducted with the people of Estonia!? I haven't said anything like that, and I won't. I have constantly stressed that vaccination is voluntary in Estonia and will remain voluntary. That's right. People who do not want to be vaccinated can refuse vaccination, but I really recommend that everyone who has this chance have a vaccination because it has been scientifically proven that vaccination helps prevent disease, it helps to prevent serious cases so that people do not get hospitalised and, more importantly, that people do not die as a result of this disease. A good proof of this is vaccination in nursing homes. At that point, when Estonia had a very high level of infection, it was very low in nursing homes, because people in nursing homes had been vaccinated and as a result there were no serious outbreaks and no further deaths. So if this is an opportunity, be sure to use it. But I still suggest you go back to college and go through this whole studio with a lot of lawsuits. Then you will get a full picture of how these sections will relate to each other and how the Estonian legal space works in general.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U590	And now there's a matter registered on the spot. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U591	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! I'd like to find out. You have said on foreign media and you have repeatedly emphasised here that no one is being forced to vaccinate in Estonia. A moment ago, you also said that everyone has the right to refuse vaccination. At the same time, I hope that it is not unknown to you either, the hospitals have fired and released workers who have not been vaccinated, especially when we had higher levels of coronation. You can't ignore it or say you don't know it. This means that these people are basically forced and pressured to vaccinate. They have a choice whether you're going to be vaccinated or you're going to lose your job. What have you done about it now that hospitals have violated the government's decision and acted contrary to the Prime Minister's word? What have you done about it? How have you protected those people who have lost their jobs?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U592	Thank you. Look, the constitution works as a whole. The rights of a person can be limited in order to protect other people. According to § 16 of the Constitution, everyone has the right to life. People who come to the hospital have weakened their immune system, and therefore, if they get this disease, they may die. A good colleague, Helmen Kütt, has also pointed out here in the Riigikogu that if on one side there is a person's right to life and on the other side there are employer's rights or employee's rights, where does this balance go? Vaccination is and will remain voluntary, but in the context of a risk assessment each employer must assess the nature, size and duration of the risk of infection by his staff member and must also take safety measures to prevent or reduce its impact. The employer cannot oblige the worker to go into vaccination, i.e. the worker has the right to refuse vaccination. Since workers cannot and must not be forced to vaccinate, as this is contrary to the principle of physical integrity of a person, if this hazard analysis or risk analysis cannot eliminate the risk by other means or by reducing the risk of health to the lowest possible level, it is important that the worker knows the consequences in the employer's view. If a person refuses to vaccinate, he or she should be given or offered a different job. It's like any other working condition that if this job doesn't suit you, you can't do this job. You'll be offered a different job with the same employer. But if there's no offer, what do we do? A person has the right to life and health. But the person who gets hospitalized because he has a weak immune system, his life, in any case, outweighs the fact that [in an institution] someone wants to work without vaccination, [in association with] people who can get sick. So in order not to have serious cases and not to have deaths, such safety measures are necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U593	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U594	Ladies and gentlemen, Now, the story is, we've gone through all the questions we've had. Since we still have half an hour left, it is possible to register on the spot for questions. The first question you can ask is Kalle Grünthal. At the time of the question, I would also like to say who has the question and what is the subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U595	Thank you. The issue is addressed to Kaja Kallas and the subject is vaccination. First of all, I thank you for your recommendation to go back to college, but I also suggest you go back to college for your re-study, because you don't seem to be able to count anything in terms of standard technology. After all, we had an argument about what this constitutional order is. So I'm gonna have to go over the definition for the third time. In the comments to paragraph 54, the following definition is given: "... The concept of constitutional order includes the functioning of state institutions (state authority) and the recognition of fundamental rights and human dignity. " More specifically, the concept of constitutional order is stated in § 129, footnote 4. I am not talking about the paragraph, but I was talking about the comment that would embodi the concept of constitutional order. And it says nicely that a constitutional disorder can be regarded as a situation where a constitutional institution, or government, systemically fails to fulfil its obligations. But with that, you're gonna have to learn that for a long time to figure out what that means in terms of standard engineering. My question is this: you said that you never wanted to do human trials or medical research, but in this same Kuku radio, in this very Estonian Television, you announced that you wanted to receive Johnson's & Johnson's vaccine and offered medical and scientific research in exchange. Have you forgotten those sentences yet?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U596	Thank you. As for the Johnson & Johnson vaccine, I have not made any offers to anyone. It was that we were contacted to have that chance. People in the private sector at the moment when we had very little vaccine, suggested possible cooperation. And I asked what the terms of this cooperation would be, but these conditions of cooperation did not really come into being, so no decision can be made on this basis. I think that the fact that the Estonian Government is studying different ways to get out of the epidemic so that society can be open so that we do not have restrictions so that we have a medical system that we can withstand and people do not get sick or die as a result is the responsibility of every government. So different options have been studied. But please don't really put any words in my mouth, don't give me any statements I haven't said. Just don't lie like that all the time. Please don't do this! You guys stand up for what you say and tell me what you think about things, like you do freely, but don't speak for me, we'll do that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U597	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U598	Dear Deputy Speaker! My question is also to Prime Minister Kallas, and I am asking about the economy, taxes and budget. Eesti Pank's economic forecast came out, which says that the Estonian economy could grow by even more than 8.5% this year, which of course means an economic boom. And this economic boom is undoubtedly accompanied by a very significant increase in tax receipts. According to the latest summary by Statistics Estonia and the Ministry of Finance, tax receipts have now exceeded the pre-corona level. On this basis, the Ministry of Finance has assessed the need for less borrowing. That is certainly very good news. But I was aware of the latest announcement by Eesti Pank as well as the earlier assessment by the Ministry of Finance that the tax receipts are very good. However, we are talking about the fact that, despite very decent tax receipts, the cuts still have to be continued. I now ask you which universe can live in such a way that you don't have to deal with cutting. We were talking about cuts when the economy fell and the tax receipts were low, they said that there was a need to cut because there was no money and no borrowing. Now we have high tax receipts, money left over, not even a loan, but we still need to cut it, because otherwise we're gonna burn the boom. Is there some kind of world that doesn't have to be cut? Please give us the signals the government is planning to make! In a good life, will we continue to talk about death?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U599	Thank you. First of all, in the light of this economic forecast for Eesti Pank, it is strange that in just half an hour I will stand before you because you have presented me with mistrust because I have ruined the Estonian economy. It doesn't seem like it's going to come together at all. But we'll be able to talk about it here in the next few hours. Indeed, this new forecast by Eesti Pank is very positive. They offer 5.3 to 8.2% for growth and 3.8 to 4.9% for next year. It would be good to look at these two years together, because if there is rapid growth in one year, then in the second year it will certainly mean slower growth. And there's more positive messages. Estonian entrepreneurs plan to increase the number of employees. Survey data show a large increase in optimism. What's it all say? This shows that the crisis measures adopted with the additional budget were well targeted and we actually got the economy to work very quickly. In this connection, I also ask that perhaps you will withdraw your mistrust, especially if we now have a prognosis that says that everything is actually good and there is no basis for it. Now the question of the state budget and the state budget strategy. You know very well that this hole, which is in the country's fiscal strategy, is still much larger, i.e. one that this economic forecast or growth will not immediately cover. You yourself have admitted that, yes, you have written such a bluff in that country's budget strategy, and there have actually been different dreams against this bluff. The Estonian budget, as you yourself know very well as the former Minister of Finance, follows a certain budget calendar. And this budget calendar says we're coming up with a budget in September. Before that, we have no real reason to make any other decisions. I also want to say, just in case, what now concerns this deficit. The deficit will, of course, decrease as revenue increases, which is understandable. But if you look at one slide of Eesti Pank, they say here that Estonia's current plan to reduce the budget deficit is less ambitious than many other countries. Everyone is doing this; all countries are still trying to achieve a better balance between revenues and costs than they have been so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U600	Next thing you know, Heiki Hepner's gonna ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U601	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. My question goes to the Minister for the Environment and is actually motivated here by the hunting that Riho Breivel asked for in the meantime. The Minister of the Environment replied that it was unreasonable to take rent for the use of hunting grounds. Well, you can discuss and argue about this, of course, but we do know that certain hunters are rented out on the land of the state forest for money and auction. Is this practice to be changed? And the other part of the question concerns the existence of 50 + 1 private land. There is a very clear reason why this was done. One is that forest owners should be involved and also a hunter would realise it or that he would be forced to take into account, to some extent, the concerns of foresters, precisely in minimising damage. I agree that minimising damage is actually a priority. But it also has another, practical side. You say 30% or 33%, or 1/3, but maybe somebody else would offer 40% or 49%. Then, in fact, we should give preference to those who offer the majority. This is also the 50% requirement. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U602	I'm gonna start with the rental topic. As I said, I think, first of all, when we talk about someone taking land from a country and not just for hunting purposes, but as a whole, there is some kind of price, of course, and it has been developed nationally. What I am talking about is that whoever these landowners are private owners, representatives of the state or farmers, restricting the numbers of animals is really important for everyone. After all, we don't want the wild animals to destroy all the prey in this forest or on this farmland. I think that the number of wild animals must be limited, it must be kept under control, while also allowing endangered species to improve their lives here in Estonia. Now the second issue, which concerns the conclusion of contracts with private owners. We are talking about trying to find a compromise here. Whether this compromise is 51, 33 or any other beautiful number, that is the negotiation agreement. As far as I know, if the owners of private land, including the state as a whole, or the owner of hunting grounds, want to replace the hunter, this is already possible if 51% of the signatures are met. As far as this 51% requirement is concerned, there are very different examples. We have an example of Tartu County, where this 51% requirement was met from this huntingisselts and, in fact, all of these permits There was the consent of the owners of private land and the consent of the hunting company, and the state also gave its consent through RMK and the Environmental Board. At the same time, I am not so optimistic that 51% can be achieved in all regions, because certain obstacles lie ahead, since land has been rented out and the right owner is very difficult to obtain. But like I said, that percentage has to be where we start these negotiations. I have also proposed one compromise in order to really come back to this 2 + 1 methodology in the hunting councils: two attempts are made to find consensus on this 51% request and, if this is not achieved, the third time, with a vote of 3/4 votes in the Council of Nine, it will be possible to grant an extension of the hunting permit. But it does indeed require that the first two attempts have been made to seek a consensus of substance.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U603	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U604	Thank you. My question is to the Prime Minister. Prime Minister! I am very surprised that you continue and constantly, instead of doing something positive yourself, to blame everyone else and the previous government, including immigration. I would remind you that precisely when your party was in power for 17 years, 18 exceptions were made to the immigration quota, including total nonsense, at that time, during your reign, immigration grew exponentially, reaching thousands. The foreign law prepared during the previous government, which would have put a stop to this, would have stopped our salary trap, our technological development, would have put limits on the use of universities as an immigration pump, which you have just rejected. This year, emigration has increased considerably, it has also exceeded the Estonians' return migration, and the emigration of Estonians has increased. This has all been happening during your reign. And those who come are not intellectuals or specialists, mostly. I'd like to ask you about that. You said here at the beginning that you, too, would like immigration to be under control. In light of all this, I would like to clarify what this control means. Does this control, looking at your previous actions, looking at the actions of your government and your party mean that the increase in immigration is the goal you want to control?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U605	Thank you. Doesn't it seem strange to you that you blame me as if I blame you, and then you blame us for having been in power for 17 years? That sounds kind of weird. But let's talk about numbers. You have such well-rounded claims. You say that immigration has increased massively, that emigration has increased massively. But tell me about the numbers! Tell me specifically, bring concrete facts! I can help you. I have numbers in front of me. Fixed-term residence permits, right of residence 2017 In fact, I would remind you that in 2016 the Reform Party was still in power, but it was not from there. 2016 total 7435 residence permits, right-of-occupancy rights, 2017 8156, 2018 9079 and now NB! In 2019, your government is 10128 and 2020 8573. So the language of numbers doesn't really support what you're saying. When we talk about temporary residence permits and residence rights, these numbers are more or less the same. So in that sense, it's not quite true what you're saying. The question is: if it has been so important to you, and if you claim that this situation is so bad, but as I said, the facts do not support you, then you had two years to do something about it, yet you did not. Our government has been in power for four months. We also have different views on politics in general. And, as I said earlier, with what Mr White mentioned that there are problems with learning mobility, we are dealing with the need-based support of students to come here to learn about the students we really want. We will also look at the bigger picture in the whole of higher education. If that's a problem, we'll deal with it exactly where the problem is.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U606	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U607	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like to address the Prime Minister. First of all, I would like to correct your statement in the previous reply that the previous government did nothing. There were two initiatives, two amendments to the law, one also arrived nicely in the Riigikogu, the other unfortunately did not arrive. But I was inspired by the question of Aivar Koka. Looking at how you all were very proud of the fact that we now have a government with more women than there have been in any government so far, I have a question about this. I am not aware of any initiative that the government in office would have taken, which would show that they are thinking of young families. Can you tell me what the current government has done to support and help young families acquire their homes? What decisions have been taken, what measures have been taken or what actions have been taken? Please respond specifically.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U608	Thank you. Perhaps in the future you could also register this question, so I can prepare better. Right now, I just have to remember by memory, but next time you ask me, or even if you do a written question, we can put it together for the whole government job. It's a very correct question in itself. Young families are important, as are how young families can better organise their lives. One particular thing that I can point out is the same support and the project of living in the countryside or the programme on which I also responded to Heiki Hepner, namely how to encourage people to acquire homes outside this golden circle, how they can set up their lives there, so that there is work and bread and support where it is most needed. But really, maybe it's easier that we answer in writing because I haven't prepared it now as specific points, and then you'll get a very specific answer too.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U609	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U610	Thank you. The question is addressed to Kaja Kallas. I would like to mention this now. You said I put words in your mouth. I haven't done it. We can sit down and watch this ERR TV show and listen to your statement on Kuku's radio that you will then offer medical and scientific research for the Estonian people against Johnson's & Johnson's vaccine. That's true, it'll come out today if the agenda comes to that. AstraZeneca's medical tests have taken place in Estonia without informing people about this. The evidence is there. This evidence will be discussed here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu today or tomorrow or any other day. You can smile, yes, but it's like this. So I don't know who's gonna be responsible for this. But the question still concerns what I have already asked for the third or fourth time. I would like to know whether, if it is proven that such attempts have been carried out, an Estonian citizen has the right to express his own-initiative resistance, as the constitutional order is a violation of an important fundamental right.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U611	Thank you. I just want to say that the reason you're not referring to specific quotations is because you don't have these quotations. That is why you speak and seriously claim something that simply does not exist. And it's not correct. I want to talk about this constitutional order and this violent rebellion to change constitutional order. As always, it seems to me that you are calling for this violent constitutional order.... What's it like here, it's § 54? "If no other means are available, every Estonian citizen has the right to express his own-initiative resistance to the violent change of constitutional order. " You should know from the history of Estonia where such a paragraph comes from and what the meaning of this paragraph is. It is that when, for example, some foreign power starts to change the constitutional order of Estonia, it wants to counter, clean up, I do not know, Riigikogu, and say that this Riigikogu no longer works, or oppose the Riigikogu, government, etc., elected on the basis of the law, to change the procedure violently, then the citizens of Estonia can face it. Just as it should have been in 1940. These are lessons from our history, where we have learned that when this constitutional order is violently changed, people should also resist it, and they should use every opportunity to do so. I don't understand what you're calling for right now. Do you not think the current Riigikogu is elected in free elections and is not legitimate? Is that what you're saying? What do you say? What is the complaint about constitutional order, and what are you calling for? What is this violent resistance? What are you building here? I'd like to understand that. In my opinion, it is absolutely not in the interests of the Estonian people, of the Estonian people or of the Estonian legislative power that you constantly undermine the authority of the legislative authority with all your sayings.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U612	Mr Randpere and Mr Grünthal! Question Time means that a member of the Riigikogu asks for two minutes and the minister answers three minutes. I don't see any reason for us to talk about procedural issues here. I'd be happy to give you the floor now... Mr. Randpere, would you... Thank you! Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U613	Thank you. The question is again for the Prime Minister. Yes, I would point out that neither Kalle Grünthal nor any of us have made any appeal to violence or I do not know what. The story that I feel, and I get the impression, has been misguided feelings and mistaken impressions. Of course, it's terrifying, in the sense that we know what your government's instinct is, that your hand is about to grab the holster and the dogs are being sent on when something seems to be wrong. But all right, let's just leave it there, I had a different subject. But before I get to this other subject, I would point out this: I got an answer to my previous question that we created a huge hole. Well, it didn't create a huge hole. This huge hole you are talking about is the forecast made last year on the basis of the tax receipts of last year, and the whole point of my story was that this forecast made last year is no longer true today, and that hole is not really true. My question was, if this hole is no longer there, whether or not you intend to continue talking about cutting, but you did not answer it. Okay, I'm not gonna ask you again, I don't have to answer. I come to the question of Henn Põljaasa, where you told us that in recent years there have been 8 000 10,000 people in Estonia with migration balances and where this mass immigration is. Maybe we have a completely different standard here again, but if 8,000 10,000 people come to Estonia every year, with about 30,000 people temporarily coming in with short-term work permits, this is already a mass migration for us. In view of the number of people in Estonia, this is mass immigration. And we passed a law amendment to the Aliens Act during our government, and the other one wasn't finished, you took it back in the government. My question is this: do you have 10,000 people in Estonia, Estonian people who do not speak the language from another cultural space, and you are not bothered at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U614	Thank you. It is very good that you are saying that a member of your party is not calling for any violent change in constitutional order. In that sense, it's a good thing you're confirming that. And as I have said myself, nor did I like your government, as you do not like our government, I fully understand that, but that does not mean that I did not consider your government legal. It was formed on the basis of the majority of the Riigikogu and our government was formed exactly the same way. So it's a good thing we're in agreement here. Coming to the Estonian language, yes, I am very concerned that there could be better organisation of Estonian language studies in Estonia and that there would be more people who speak Estonian in Estonia. One thing is that the people who live here, who are already residents of Estonia, the people who come to us, should respect the Estonian language and culture. That is why we will also come out in November with an Estonian-language education plan so that we will not have people in Estonia who do not speak Estonian, because we know that the Estonian language skills must still be good in the Estonian language room, but that is why we need to make further efforts. It is easier for people to go, for example, if they come from the Russian-speaking community, [is right], because now they are putting their children in Russian-speaking schools as well, and they seem to remain isolated. Our language is so small that about a million people in the world speak Estonian, and we must protect it at every opportunity. That doesn't mean we can shut ourselves down. These people who come must respect our language and culture. And we do everything we can to ensure that this language is increasingly learned and that our culture is respected. Culture is also developing, as it has evolved for centuries, thanks to the fact that there have been people who are not entirely Estonians. The German community has had a huge contribution to the development of Estonian language and culture, and there are others.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U615	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U616	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, If you, Hanno, had given me the opportunity to ask for a procedural question, I would have reproached you that if there were only seven questions in Question Time, you could allow two additional questions on the spot. Otherwise, this thing ends exactly where it ends now. There will be half an hour in which Kalle Grünthal can complain that he has been excluded or expelled from the university or that it has not been completed, and then Kaja Kallas will give him crazy suggestions to go back to the University of Tartu. I don't understand what the University of Tartu has done to Kaja Kallas so bad that he wants such a thing for him. But that's it. In fact, it would also have been possible to have a slightly better distribution of questions if there were two additional questions. And now I see that the Minister of Education has hardly been able to speak at all, or, let's say straight out, hasn't been able to speak at all. I'm gonna fix that mistake. I'll give you a chance, good minister of education. Tell us that now that we have a pretty hard year behind the Corona for schools, students, what your assessment is. Does this year leave any mark on the children who went to school, or have we been relatively well out of it, or have we been very well out of it? It's just a comparison. Looks like the economy's recovered well, but knowledge looks a little bit later. What does your intuition say about your contacts with teachers?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U617	Thank you. Do we have time to answer, yes? Thank you, Honourable Asker. That's a good question. We are really now calling all Estonian general education schools to get feedback on how it has gone during distance training. In general, feedback is that schools did much better this time than during the first wave. Teachers had more knowledge and more skills, and parents had more knowledge. For example, when every eighth teacher used video lessons during the previous wave, now every other teacher is doing it. So I think the result was better than last time. However, we have the preliminary data on the results of the comprehensive school finals. We'll analyze them, and we'll definitely let you know, but the preliminary findings say yes, these results are worse than they have been in previous years. But more specifically from now on. Has he left a mark? He has certainly left a mark because we already know from research that almost half of young people aged 15 to 24 have said that they had mental health problems. In a school satisfaction study, for example, half of the 11th graders said that they were always, or often, sick of everything. And the 11th grade was also the class that was supposed to be most distant throughout the distance training period. So there are certainly significant consequences from a long period of distance learning, and we certainly intend to deal with them systematically.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U618	Ladies and gentlemen, Now is the time that it is time to announce the end of Question Time and make a séance so that we can implement the hearing. Question Time is over. Thank you to the ministers and thank you to the questioners.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U619	Ladies and gentlemen, The buzzing in this hall has grown ugly. Can we keep it down a little bit? Then you can hear me and I can hear you, otherwise it will be very difficult for us to implement this sitting. Thank you! We're starting the 18th working week Wednesday session. As usual, there is now an opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U620	First of all, I will hand over a report from the Special Committee on State Control on the work done this year. The Commission has worked as an elephant; the members of the Commission have been very good. But the ministers have become timid, they are no longer afraid to give information to the Commission. This is an issue that we certainly want to discuss with Parliament's Bureau, so that the Commission can fulfil its statutory monitoring obligation. And a second, much more unpleasant surprise struck us yesterday when information about the transport and mobility development plan approved by the government last week came to the public until 2035. It includes a plan to introduce a congestion charge and a road charge for motor vehicle owners, as well as a new price-raising fuel excise system. This whole development plan is built on the fact that there are fewer cars in Estonia. In essence, car owners will be pushed out of the roads by placing financial burdens on them. I and several other members of the Fatherland Party have a question about this action. We ask the Minister of Economic Affairs, Taavi Asa, to explain to the representative of the people that, in such silence, such a cascade of actions is envisaged. For what? What is the fault of the reasonable Estonian people whose only sin is that they use a car? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U621	There is no further request for referral of drafts or enquiries. We have adopted one report and one inquiry, and we will decide further on the board in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Now we're conducting a presence check. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U622	77 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present. Ladies and gentlemen, I have some clarification on the agenda for you. As you can see, your desks have been divided into a fresh agenda which states, as the first point, that there is a mistrust to Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. On the 13th item, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Aas, will make a presentation in addition to the representative of the commission. The Economic Commission made a request to the Bureau that the Minister's presentation be made before the presentation of the representative of the commission. The Riigikogu Board discussed this issue, but since one member of the board did not agree with this order, we need to vote on this issue in [the large hall]. More specifically, the order would be that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Aas, first makes a presentation and then Sven Sester, representative of the Committee on Economic Affairs. Mr. Grünthal, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U623	Yes, thank you! This procedural question essentially concerns the same thing that you want to put to the vote, i.e. that Taavi Aas is ahead of Sven Sester as a representative of the lead committee. The point is that I looked up the comments of the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, that at second reading a representative of the leading committee, who is usually the same member of the Riigikogu, who also represented the leading committee at first reading, appears before the Riigikogu's plenary. While the main rapporteur at first reading is the initiator, or Taavi Aas, the second reading is the representative of the commission, because, after the first reading has been completed, the draft will be responsible for the future procedure and will be prepared by the commission to discuss it in plenary. The question is that we cannot vote to move these people around now, because our Rules of Procedure clearly state that there will be a representative of the lead committee first.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U624	Thank you. Indeed, if you look at the rule of law, you can say that the rule of law does not regulate it so precisely, but in the explanatory memorandum of the law there really is such a comment. In this case, we followed the Commission's request in the Bureau. I see that the chairman of the committee also has a procedural observation, after all, he would like to comment on that. But the Commission's request to the Bureau was that, as the initiator's representative has put forward substantive proposals on the draft, it is appropriate that the Minister introduce them directly to the Riigikogu and also answer any questions he might have. In this context, the Committee on Economic Affairs asked the Minister to make his presentation on this item first and to leave the presentation of the lead committee second. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U625	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will describe it a little bit, although it may not reduce the number of questions, the problem is probably elsewhere. However, in the Commission, we have, I stress, achieved by consensus exactly the result described here by the President. In particular, before the presentation by the Commission, the Minister is able to describe this intermediate work, which cannot be described by the rapporteur of the Commission, that is why a compromise was reached. In this way, the presentation will be clearer in the Chamber and better monitored by everyone. Otherwise, the order would be peculiar: the rapporteur of the Commission would refer to the speaker after him and the speaker would say that the rapporteur of the Commission could have reported everything. That is why we in the Committee on Economic Affairs, which includes representatives of all political parties represented in the Riigikogu, reached this proposal. I sincerely hope that everyone will support this proposal, because it will give you a better overview of this draft and its content.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U626	Thanks for the explanation. Now, ladies and gentlemen, the story is that the first item on today's agenda is one that the public will certainly be interested in. If we have a wish to deal with two hours of procedural questions on whether the minister is before or is a representative of the committee first, then I fear that the public interest may be somewhat dissipated and there may be a misunderstanding about what the Riigikogu is dealing with. Now, here's the thing about me taking procedural questions in a row, listening to them, and then trying to answer everyone. Since we have had a situation in which the Bureau did not reach a consensus on this report, it is possible to resolve it by voting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I hope that we will reach that point, but really, please keep the issues that you have on this item as specific and precise as possible. I'll write them down. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U627	Good manager! I have a purely procedural question. I listened to Mr Michal's story about how Taavi Aas was suddenly pushed first. What's the justification again? In short, the picture will become clearer when the Minister is put first in the case of the Electricity Market Act. But I would like to remind you that yesterday's session was a similar situation when I was grubbed up as a waitress of the environmental code and grafted into it by the esteemed Minister of the Environment. If you look at these yellow pages that have been distributed to us, you will see that the situation with point 13 is exactly the same: first, the rapporteur is Mr Aas, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, and then Sven Sester, Vice-President of the Economic Commission. Let's look at point 8 on page one, there is exactly the same thing: the first rapporteur is Yoko Alender, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, and the second rapporteur is Tõnis Mölder, Minister of the Environment. My question is as follows: does the board of the Riigikogu also look at matters in substance and in formal terms, that one point is the same way and the other point is the other, or does it mean in cremological terms that Taavi Aas is a more important figure than the Minister of the Environment, who happens to be the chairman of a party council? Or is it just a bardak, like they used to say?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U628	I would like to take all the questions in a row, but I will answer very briefly. The Bureau followed the request made by both committees, the request made by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on the Environment for [point of the Electricity Market Act]. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U629	Thank you, good vice chairman. I will continue where you have finished, that [for mistrust of the Prime Minister] is of public interest and [for questioning] what we do here. Yesterday, President of the Riigikogu Jüri Ratas said that we are dealing with mistrust as a second point, before that there is one draft before it. Yesterday the end of this season was held in the Tallinn region. There people asked when [the motion of distrust] was being processed. I told you what Jüri Ratas had said, "Jüri Ratas is a man of his word," that this [will be dealt with] as another item on the agenda. Under what circumstances has mistrust become the first? We all have a reputation [at stake] because I told people that Jüri kept his word. At this point in time, it turns out that our credibility has diminished to some extent. Do you have any particular reason why mistrust is the first today, although yesterday it was the first, and we voted on the second item?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U630	Thank you. Yesterday we added to the agenda in such a way that the statement of mistrust by the Prime Minister is pending as soon as possible on Wednesday. If a point had not been completed on Tuesday, perhaps yesterday, mistrust would indeed have been another point. However, since we did not have anything going on yesterday, the President of the sitting, Mr Helme, took a five-minute break from the President after closing the last item on the agenda so that a new item would not open up and we could start today by expressing our mistrust to the Prime Minister, the motion of mistrust is the first item on the agenda. I hope that explains the situation. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U631	Thank you, Mr President. My question concerns item 13 on which the order in which Mr Asa and Mr Sester are speaking are under discussion. [Article 105 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu] lays down the procedure for discussing the draft at second reading. Could you please specify which paragraph of our Rules of Procedure gives the Chamber the right to violate this order?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U632	Thank you. Paragraph 105 (2) states who are rapporteurs at second reading and that the presentation may also be made by the Minister if the Commission or the initiator so requests. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U633	I'll take it from there. This wording, which concerns the decision of the commission, is, in fact, even stricter than 'if asked', but 'if the Commission so decides'. To be honest, it would be better to ask here how broad the decision-making power of the board is in this situation at all. When the commission decided in consensus that the minister should appear first, and since it is the commission that is responsible for the correct procedure of the draft, I honestly do not see any reason for the Riigikogu to vote on it when the commission decided in a consensual manner.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U634	Thank you for that comment. As there was a difference of opinion in the Bureau, our Rules of Procedure provide that the large hall must resolve it. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U635	Thank you. I'll pick up where Evgeny Ossinovski pointed out. In my opinion, the Bureau decides on matters falling within its competence. On Monday, we had the opposite question: the Bureau did not want to decide on the alleged infringement of the procedure of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, although it was precisely the Bureau's responsibility. The Bureau sent it back to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to sort it out. The situation is now the other way around: the management board takes over the competences that actually belong to the Riigikogu committee. Under what provision does the board appoint rapporteurs? This is the Commission's competence. Where did this authority come from? I would ask the President to refer specifically to the Home and Working Procedures Act [the provision].
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U636	Mr Reinsalu, the Bureau has made exactly the request that the Commission has made to you. One member of the Bureau said that he did not agree with the order proposed by the Commission, as the previous practice in the Riigikogu at second reading has been such that if the minister wishes to come to the remote, he would rather come after the Commission rapporteur. Based on this old practice, and also on the interpretation of the Riigikogu's domestic and operational interpretation, one member of the board found it reasonable to have a large hall confirming the decision of the committee. And, as I understand it, the great hall supports the Commission's decision, so we do not have any problems. I would like to put it to the vote quickly, and we can move on to the agenda. Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U637	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to reiterate here what Mr Michal, as chairman of the committee, and Mr Ossinovski, who was also present at this meeting, has already mentioned, on the basis of a proxy, by replacing Kalvi Tõvi, both: this is indeed a consensus decision of the Commission. I can also point out the reason why the Commission invited the Minister in the first place and why it wishes to put him in the first place this time. This is very simple: it is a draft that has been the subject of additional political agreements in which, at this moment, not myself, but the Minister for Economic Affairs, as the leading rapporteur for the Commission, has been involved, but as a party to the coalition. The Minister for Economic Affairs was ready to come here today, he understood this and said that, of course, he is the best communicator of political agreements, because I could really only talk about internal discussions within the Commission, although I would often like to talk about more. So this was a common understanding of all parties, nor did Taavi Asa have any problem with that. I stress once again that this is a consensual decision of the Commission, mainly for members of the Riigikogu, [to have] the opportunity to ask about the deeper content of 'political agreements'. I think it could be supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U638	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U639	Thank you, Mr President. Perhaps you will enlighten me a little on the subject that item 13 of today's agenda is the second reading of the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act initiated by the government. If our debates are to be longer and point 13 is to be postponed to tomorrow's sitting, the situation is that there is, as I see it, a second reading [and a third] in a one-day session, as I see it, the second item on the Thursday agenda is the third reading of the same draft. Please, can you explain to me how it is governed by law, that on the same day of the sitting you can first do a second reading and then, after a few points, a third reading?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U640	Thank you. Third readings are on our agenda conditionally. But let's get to work and let's see, let's hope we get the bill processed with today's working day. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U641	Thank you, Mr President. If I have understood you correctly, on the 13th item, we must, in essence, vote in the Chamber on which report, either the report by the Minister or the presentation by the Vice-Chair of the Committee on Economic Affairs, will come first on this item. In order to avoid us playing the lottery in the dark in this Chamber as members of the Riigikogu, perhaps you will enlighten us about possible pros and cons in either case. Will making the Minister's report the first one consider making the Vice-Chairman of the Economic Commission the first one?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U642	Thank you. This is not a procedural question, but I think that Mr Michal and Mr Sester's explanations opened the background a little bit. The desire came from the Commission, the Commission made it consensually and precisely because, in the course of the procedure before the large hall of second reading, there was a compromise in the content of the draft which might need clarification from the initiator. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U643	Good manager! I will go on from what Mr Sester was talking about, and I have exactly the same situation. He was talking about the Electricity Market Act, I'm talking about the Environmental Register Act. In both cases, at the last moment, the Minister was grafted into strength. In the Electricity Market Act, he was put first, but in the Environmental Register Act, he was given a modest second place. I have now heard from my colleague, Siser, that the reason why this was done is because the matter has been discussed in the Committee on Economic Affairs and further political agreements have been made in the meantime. My question is this: has the Bureau been informed that the proposal of the Committee on the Environment states that any further political agreements have been made in the meantime in the draft environmental register [the law]? I, as a member of the Committee on the Environment, have not heard that. Does the President have any other information?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U644	Ladies and gentlemen, we already voted yesterday on this item, so I do not want to reopen it. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U645	Thank you very much. I still come to the procedure for discussing this bill, which we actually have to follow here. The same comment in § 105 (2) states very clearly that in its section "in the sense that the representative of the commission will give an overview of what happened between the first reading and the second reading of the draft at the Commission: explain certain amendments, justify the omission of the proposed amendments and present the procedural decisions and proposals of the commission'. I think that the content of this comment is, in fact, absolutely logical. If Minister Taavi Aas is to be present today, it is absolutely logical that he will be second, because we will first get an overview of what happened at the hearing and...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U646	Is there a question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U647	The question is, what is the paragraph that says that the hall can change [the queue of the rapporteurs]? You said that [it is regulated] § 105. I don't think the hall has the right to change the order.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U648	Thank you. Paragraph 105 (2) states that there must be a presentation by the commission and may be a presentation by a minister if the Minister so requests as an initiator or if the Commission so decides. That is the Commission's decision in this case. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I do not see that we have any additional information here. We have a Commission proposal that can either be supported or not supported by a large hall, and then we can move on to the agenda. My proposal is to wrap up procedural questions if you have, in essence, some kind of procedural question on this item. We need to vote through whether or not the hall will support the arrival of the Minister for the remote and then the Commission's waitress. We don't have any more information on procedural issues. It's a hall decision. Mr. Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U649	Thank you. In this debate, where substantive issues have also been included in the context of procedural remarks, it has become considerably more confusing. This bill has been in a certain stalemate during the new coalition for months, and now it has been jogging at once, so that a second and a third reading should take place during the two [consistent] days. There are also references here to some notorious agreements that have been concluded between somebody, and they have indeed transformed the draft. But perhaps this would help us further because we have already moved from the formal side to the substantive side, if the Chair and the Chair of the Economic Commission would give an overview of the agreements that have taken place on the deal. What was the price tag of one party to deal with this law [the bill] in a reduced way? I don't understand this cutting. And what was the price tag on the other side so that Parliament would not know about this deal? Parliament's agreements should be public in the draft legislative procedure, not something beyond the corner. And now we're going to roll in front of the Minister for Economic Affairs, who needs to talk black to white.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U650	We will discuss this on point 13. Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U651	I just wanted to mention it because Mr Ernits once again raised this issue. He gave an example of a draft 292 on the amendment of the general part of the Environmental Code law and other laws, and noted that it had been the subject of a'reverse decision'. I will certainly mention it to Mr Ernits, as the President said, that you are processing the proposals that the Commission is proposing to you, and then, in this case, the Committee on the Environment has proposed the same thing and the Committee on Economic Affairs has proposed differently. It's usually that simple.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U652	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U653	I have a question about agenda items 8 and 13. How many questions and how many speakers can I ask? Is it that, since there are two performers at second reading, I have two questions for each of them, or do they divide? What about this one?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U654	In total, there are two questions. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U655	Thank you, Mr President. You have repeatedly complained today so that we can go ahead with this sitting. I agree, I would like to proceed with the hearing. But if you do not answer the substantive question, it will force you to ask further questions. I will now ask for the third time which section allows voting in the Chamber of the Riigikogu on which speaker is ahead. Tell me specifically about this paragraph. Please do not make any further reference to Paragraph 105 (2). It does not talk about voting. I'd like to know under which section.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U656	I'll tell you in a minute. I'll tell you in my head it's Paragraph 16 (4) but I'll take a look. Indeed, § 16 (4). Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U657	Thank you, Mr President. You have repeatedly referred here to the fact that there are some procedural issues that are substantive, and other procedural issues that are non-essential, and you would be much more pleasant to answer these substantive procedural questions. I ask you if you can give some good examples of what are the substantive procedural questions you would like to expect from the hall. In this way, we would all feel that we are doing our job in substance, and no one should suffer too much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U658	Thank you. It wasn't a procedural question. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U659	Good manager! I listened to Mr Sester's faithful speech on how it is. Yes, of course it is that every committee decides what it wants. But when we came to Article 105 of this, we've recently forgotten when we were discussing a similar thing here from our yellow book. It has been said here that there will be a presentation at second reading of the draft by a representative of the commission, and the following sentence says that the initiator of the draft may make a presentation if he so wishes. It is quite clear that it occurs first and "if, then...'. But for this 13th point, "if, then..." is placed forward. I ask whether Mr President or the Bureau is dealing with the matter in the same way that there is no harmonisation from the pipe, no conduct under the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. The way it comes from the pipe, let's do it. The second question: will we have a new yellow leaf in the morning, as we have become a tradition?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U660	Thank you. I would like to stress once again that the Management Board of the Riigikogu naturally follows the Home and Working Procedures Act. However, on this point, we had a request from the Commission and we tried to meet the Commission. However, there was no consensus on the board. Consequently, pursuant to § 16 (4), if no consensus is found in the Bureau, the decision must be taken by vote in the large Chamber. Whether the major hall supports the proposal of the Economic Commission to listen first to the Minister and then to the rapporteur of the commission or to go the other way, we will all be able to vote as soon as we finish the procedural questions. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U661	Thank you very much, good Hanno! I will come back for a moment to the question put by my good colleague, Reuben, and the answer to that question. I did not understand whether a procedural clarification of the procedural question was a procedural question or whether it was not a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U662	Thank you for that question, Paul. Let's continue this debate after I'm done here and Martin's coming forward [to guide]. Then we can talk a lot more about home and working procedures. We also have a working group on Rules of Procedure that you are involved in, so I am very pleased that we are doing so well with the new Rules of Procedure that no one will have any procedural questions. Ladies and gentlemen, I now put to the vote before you [this proposal]. But since we have been discussing the procedural issue for so long, for half an hour, I would like to invite our colleagues to the Chamber first. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in order to vote before you, I would like to put a question in favour of the presentation of the draft 156 at second reading first by the Minister and then by the representative of the lead committee. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U663	63 members of the Riigikogu supported the proposal and 16 opposed it. We are working on a distributed agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U664	Ladies and gentlemen, we are now going to the first item on the agenda, which is the publication of censure on Prime Minister Kallas. Let me remind you how we deal with this point. First, the representative of the initiators will have 20 minutes to speak, then the Prime Minister will have up to 20 minutes to speak. Each member of the Riigikogu can ask up to two oral questions and then the political groups will be able to speak in the negotiations. In the final vote, the Prime Minister has been distrusted when the majority of the Riigikogu is in favour of expressing censure. Martin Helme, Member of the Riigikogu, as representative of the initiators of the speech chair. Please, Mr. Helme, your turn! I would have liked congratulations to the Chairman of the Monetary Commission in the meantime, but he went out the door. If anyone sees her on the other side of the hall somewhere, wish her a happy birthday. Now, please, Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U665	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, It is no secret that our party did not support the current government and did not support the mandate of Kaja Kallas [Prime Minister]. But for the last almost five months, Estonia's policy has moved on to paths that we do not think leave it unanswered in the toughest parliamentary way. I will read to you our statement of distrust to Prime Minister Kaja Kallas: "The government currently in power is deliberately causing damage to the Estonian state, which is why Kaja Kallas, as head of government, has lost confidence in our eyes. Under the leadership of Kaja Kallas, the government of the Reform Party and the Central Party have played down the conditions created by the previous government for economic development and enhancing Estonia's defence capabilities in a few months. The government has made a number of incompetent economic policy decisions that seriously undermine Estonian companies, the development of rural areas and the security of the state, the well-being of all Estonian people in the short and long term. In a situation where the majority of European countries have decided to stimulate the Koronian economy, the government of Kaja Kallas is pursuing the opposite policy by holding back the economy by cutting the state budget and raising taxes. As a result of the cut-off policy, electricity, gas and diesel excise duties will be increased again, leading to an overall increase in prices and creating conditions for the resumption of border trade and a reduction in the revenue from the state budget. In addition, the construction of four-line roads is pushed to a distant future, which in turn accelerates peripheralisation, takes away the opportunity for economic growth and leads to more road accidents. Government policy undermines the security of Estonian families and homeowners. Caruteens are done to 146000 children and their parents, almost half of which is due to reduced opportunities for recreational education, with the inhabitants of municipalities far away from Tallinn particularly suffering damage. The government's policy is also a painful blow at the $1,40,000 people who are deprived of income tax exemption on interest on their mortgage. The government does not have any new initiatives that would in any way balance or encourage people to get their own homes. The government of Kaja Kallas will halt the development of Estonia's defence capabilities. In the current tense international situation, defence cuts mean conscious deterioration of the security situation in the entire Baltic Sea region. In addition, significant value symbols such as chaplain service and the Order of the Defence Forces have been destroyed. Instead of offering citizens more opportunities to participate in politics, during Kaja Kallas' term of office, legislative initiatives have reached the Riigikogu, which are characteristic of rather undemocratic regimes. In its original form, the draft proposal on the control and prevention of communicable diseases (NETS) essentially meant the introduction of a police state. However, the approval of the draft amendment to the Media Services Act would limit freedom of expression. The same ABIS issue that we have been working on here for several weeks is also a step towards a totalitarian society. In addition, there have been signals from the Prime Minister's party that there is a so-called draft hate speech in the work to muzzle unpleasant opinions. The way in which people who protest against the government will be treated in Estonia was offered by the government of Kaja Kallas in April this year when the police used a disproportionate force against the people who protested before the Riigikogu and in the Liberty Square. The explanation that it was necessary to bring to justice the people who violated the corona restrictions collapsed a few weeks later when the people who were celebrating the victory of the Soviet Union on 9 May were allowed to break the rules unhindered at the Bronze Soldier's cemetery in Inner Town. Kaja Kallas has also shown himself to be an incompetent leader in resolving the corona crisis. The intermediate increase in infections to the top of Europe was clearly the result of a mismanagement. The vaccination of residents has still not been satisfactorily managed, nor has Kallas been able to solve the problem of pendulum migration involving tens of thousands of people between Estonia and Finland. Quite the opposite. While in opposition, the Reform Party and Kaja Kallas scolded the previous government for violating relations with close neighbours, but today we can say that as much damage as Kaja Kallas has caused to relations between Estonia and Finland has not been demonstrated in Estonia's history. The activities of Kaja Kallas are detrimental to the interests of the Estonian state and the people. He is not suitable as Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia. In view of the above, we are expressing our distrust for Prime Minister Kaja Kallas." Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U666	The Prime Minister now has the opportunity to speak for up to 20 minutes, followed by questions. Please, Prime Minister Kaja Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U667	Thank you. Good Riigikogu! Listening to all this, I feel like a real giant, everything that happens around here is my doing. But it doesn't seem to me to match the narrative that I'm weak when I'm so strong. When I took office at the end of January, I realized that the situation with the state budget might be bad, but in such a bad situation, I never dreamt of having a state budget. The major surprise concerned the years 2022 to 2024, for which the current national budget strategy provided for a deficit of 5.4% [first], 4.3% [second] and 2.5% [third year]. Those numbers were startlingly big. Later it turned out that they were actually even bigger because they did not include the billion-euro bluff that had been written into it. It was surprising how irresponsiblely and lightly the promises of the future had been shared. At the end of 2020, the general government general budget expenditure exceeded revenue by EUR 1.3 billion, with central government expenditure exceeding revenue by EUR 991 million. Consolidated government debt was close to EUR 5 billion by the end of the year. Compared to 2019, the debt had doubled. It was also the highest figure in the last 20 years. Crisis measures were implemented in the governments of the EKRE and of the Fatherland in such a way that the link between the crisis and the damage could not be established. For example, in several cases, the MES has distributed credit to companies intended to mitigate the effects of the COVID-19 crisis, which itself did not notice the effects of the crisis or merely saw the bank not lending them money as an effect. Similarly, when issuing loans, the MES often did not make it clear whether the credit needs had been caused by the crisis in COVID. During the audit, the National Audit Office also found that the foundation has treated loan applicants differently, asking some companies for more detailed information than others. Why am I talking about this? I speak because all this was done by the initiators of mistrust in the rule of the EKRE and the Fatherland. It was a starting line that I inherited in winter. When the state's budget strategy began to be dealt with, the billion-billion-bluff agreed by the previous government had to be resolved in the country's budget strategy, i.e. the promise to cut an average of more than 300 million euros in one year. That's five or six times as much as the government is now accused of. Today's distrusters EKRE and the Fatherland also know that the budgetary strategy they put together was a fraud. I quote the words of Martin Helme, then Minister of Finance, which appeared on 28 May in the Eesti Päevaleht: "I know you have a little secret that we put these cuts exactly as big as the deficits. So the table's zero. To make Excel beautiful. And no one took that minus seriously or that cut-off amount. It just didn't make sense." The politicians of the Isamaa were also aware that the RES, put together jointly with the EKRE, is aware of the confusion and confusion of the public, simply because it was also written on page 137 of the country's budget strategy. The Fatherland, however, pretended to be concerned about the financial situation of the Estonian state. At least Martin Helme did not pretend to want to cut the budget, and in that sense he is certainly more honest with his constituents. On the other hand, President of Isamaa Helir-Valdor Seeder told Äripäev on 11 September 2020 that moving by 0.5% towards fiscal balance was too loose a pace. But already on 29 September was approved with the legendary RES whose motto was that Excel would be beautiful. Head Urmas Reinsalu, Priit Sibul, Sven Sester and, of course, Chairman of the party Helir-Valdor Seeder! The party you led was in government for four years. Yes, it was the same four years where the budget deficit grew to a record level today. Today's minus is your responsibility. Empty cuts are your real policy, and your empty words of austerity are proof that words and deeds do not go together in any way. However, you began to charge the current government at the first moment to cut costs. Here are, for example, some headlines from the media. Priit Sibul says in the Isamaa press release of 30 April 2021: "In addition, the Isamaa Group would like to see the government come up with a cost reduction plan of EUR 50 million. With the additional budget, the state's expenditure will increase significantly. In a crisis situation, the state must come to the aid of people and businesses, but it must also keep an eye on public expenditure. " Sven Sester writes in the Estonian Päevaleht on 24 March: "It is important that the additional budget is not only looking for spending options, but also for austerity points. The private sector has already done so, and the previous government also foreseen cuts in the country's budget strategy. In a crisis situation, the public sector must show solidarity with the private sector." These are eloquent quotations because they show how comfortable you feel when you talk against your own decisions. First you let the state budget into a record minus, then you come up with a record bluff on cost savings and you confirm the RES with empty cuts. In reality, you did not agree on any substantial savings. You kept talking about responsible fiscal policies, but you didn't make any decisions during the four years. You're talking about cuts, you're demanding it from today's government, but have you thought about the consequences of your own decisions? Today, you accuse me and the current government of not continuing this bluff, being honest and trying to actually find savings. We're not doing things because Excel is beautiful and the table is zero, just like you used to. We control those pink dreams that you kindly promised, knowing from the beginning that the money the state doesn't have for these things. The government I run is fair. My government is not making a country's budget strategy with unsuited cuts, and we are not going to pretend. In the context of a growing economy and with the support of its part, we will reduce the budget deficit by more than EUR 500 million, because public finances will create better foundations for possible next setbacks and crisis preparation and will ensure a stronger economy and a more prosperous life. In this regard, unlike the previous government, there is an early increase in the payroll fund for the most priority areas, such as internal security workers and teachers and cultural workers. We are investing strongly in Estonia's future. Over the next four years, the Estonian economy will receive more than EUR 8 billion, or approximately EUR 2 billion per year, as government investment. Such large sums of money have never been invested in the Estonian economy. The main aim of the investments is to implement a green and digital turnaround that is crucial for Estonia's future. We don't play with taxes. We promised a tax break and, despite the wishes of the previous government, if economic growth is above 2%, I would remind you that it is now 5.4%, then excise duties will be increased. We're not going along with this request. It will remain as the EKRE and the Fatherland governments wanted: the sunset of the excise duty rate will remain in 2022 and we will not change it. The tax burden will remain in 33% of the region over the next four years. In 2021 the tax burden will be 35%. As far as economic development is concerned, it has to be said that the outlook for the Estonian economy has improved considerably in recent months. Economic growth in the first quarter of this year was 5.4% of GDP. Economic forecasts have rather been changed in ascending line. This morning Eesti Pank published its new forecast, which foresees an increase of 3.8 to 4.9% for next year. In the first quarter, household investment in housing increased by 13%, company investment in transport vehicles by 71%, buildings and structures by 7%, and machinery and equipment by 5%. Our government is not dealing with nepotism. Crisis measures and aid packages are based on the principle that we are helping those who have suffered the most. The government of EKRE and Isamaa planted money for those who were not affected by the health crisis, while we directed additional aid to support the tourism sector which was heavily hit by the crisis to EUR 17.7 million, and for the development and development of companies EUR 28 million. But now for the cost of defense. We have promised that defence costs will continue to exceed 2% of GDP, plus a defence investment programme and host state support. As a result, protection expenditure will be significantly higher in 2022 than it was this year at 59.4 million and will remain larger for the entire period of the country's budgetary strategy. On the basis of the RES, EUR 704.9 million has been planned for defence costs in 2022, as calculated by NATO. This year it was EUR 645 million, and by 2025 it will grow to EUR 712.1 million. Next year, defence costs will increase twice as fast as last year. Only once in the history of re-independence in Estonia has the cost of defence increased so much. If you look at the rhetoric of EKRE, as much as EKRE is basking, no Estonian party has done so in history. Now the mistrust of the Fatherland has embraced the style characteristic of the EKRE. What concerns me most during this six months is that the EKRE has broken our external relations and ruined more than I thought when I was in the opposition. In 2004, Lennart Meri said that access to NATO means that Estonia will never be left alone again and a small country can be equal to the big ones. Estonia's security is based on our own defence capabilities and strong alliances. The previous government was characterised by a solid pattern: members of the EKRE government insulted our allies and undermined allies. This behavior had to be explained and smoothed all the time. Both the Finnish Prime Minister, Sanna Marin, and the President of the United States, Joe Biden played their part. The pattern was consistent. Our friends in the rest of the world raised their eyebrows and wondered where Estonia had come from. For my government, NATO and allied relations with the United States are fundamental. I am just coming from the NATO summit in Brussels and I can assure you that NATO is strong and united. Collective protection works. My government has a plan, and it is to ensure strong alliances in NATO. During the previous government, Mart Helme questioned the US presidential elections, as well as the functioning of NATO. We confirmed strong alliances in NATO. The important thing is that we are an ally of the United States, and the United States is our most important ally. NATO membership is our security guarantee, in addition to our own defence capabilities. In sum, the EKRE's desire to distrust me is not surprising, because we are carriers of completely different values. But I was a little surprised by the fact that the Fatherland wants to be like the EKRE, even if the duality of its own party in government administration is revealed in doing so. I would like to thank the social democrats, with whom we have world-view differences in monetary policy, but thank you for not going along with this mistrust of the EKRE. Thank you! I'm ready to answer questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U668	Mr. Ceder, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U669	Thank you. I have a procedural question. There's been a mistake. The Honorable Prime Minister reported the wrong item on the agenda. The motion of distrust was submitted to the government currently in office, not to the previous government. Does the President have the opportunity to ask the Prime Minister to speak now about the actions of the government currently in office and to report on the item on the agenda?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U670	Mr. Ceder, that was not a procedural question. Let's get to the questions. Martin Helme begins. Mr. Ceder, do you have another procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U671	I do not agree with you, it was a completely substantive procedural issue. If you listened at all to the Prime Minister's presentation, [you would note that] it focused 95% on the activities of the previous government, but mistrust is directed towards the government currently in office. I have a request for the Prime Minister to speak about the activities of the current government and to focus on the item on the agenda that we have approved on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U672	Mr. Seeder, as you yourself know very well when you are here in my place, and you have said this repeatedly to those who sit in the hall: the questioner asks, the answer is answered. That's the way it is with the phone calls. What the Prime Minister is saying is, after all, his opportunity to address to you the [messages] he wishes to address to you. So I suggest you go to the questions. First, Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U673	Thank you, good deputy speaker. Prime Minister! I must say, of course, that I fully agree with the criticism of Helir-Valdor Seeder that this whole report spoke of something other than today's mistrust of Kaja Kallas's government. As far as I know, there is no mistrust, neither Mart Helme nor any other former minister. What does it show us? It shows that you have not understood what you are doing and what you are doing. You're still sitting on a mental opposition bench and you find everyone else is stupid or doing something wrong. That's probably why you can't do the Prime Minister's job. All the areas we are looking at, from defence, taxes or the economy to the economy, we will certainly be able to talk separately about the good tax receipts that you are currently driving on, we have done. This is the result of our economic policy and fiscal policy choices. But I come back to the foreign policy that we were talking about at the end. You're complaining that we've damaged our external relations. Do you think that the fact that you communicate with the Finnish Prime Minister through the newspaper will improve our relations with our neighbours?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U674	Thank you. If you'd like, I can do what you're saying in a row and answer them. First of all, you claim that in a few months, the government has been playing down the conditions created by the previous government for economic development. Economic prospects have improved considerably in recent months, with different forecasts being corrected upwards, all because crisis measures have been very targeted. I have been communicating with many entrepreneurs in recent weeks and they are all more optimistic about the future. Secondly, [you claim that] I have failed the conditions created by [the previous government] in order to increase my defence capabilities. As I said, defence spending is increasing twice as fast as last year. Only once before, they've grown so much. Next year, growth will be 9.2% and as a result, these expenditures will reach a record high in terms of their share of GDP. You claim that the government has made a number of incompetent economic policy decisions that seriously undermine Estonian companies, the development of rural areas and the security of the state. Here I have to say that the biggest long-term welfare destruction took place at the time of the previous government, when public finances were properly undermined, which is why we are now in the situation where we are. You are also saying that most European countries have decided to stimulate the corona-stricken economy, but we are pursuing the opposite policy. I highly recommend that you check the facts, this is not very difficult in the Internet age. Every year, all the countries of the European Union have to submit their budgetary plans for the next three years, and they are all available on the European Commission's website. According to these plans, all 27 Member States intend to reduce their budget deficits, with no counter-flow swimming. Compared to the size of this step, it is rather small, rather a little ambitious, we are 19th in the 27 countries. And [as far as] is concerned next year, we will actually be 14th in the middle, and even 12 countries intend to meet the Maastricht criteria. So in this view, our budgetary policy is completely European. You say that, as a result of the austerity policy, electricity, gas and diesel excise duties will be increased again, which will lead to overall price increases and create the conditions for the resumption of border trade and the reduction of the revenue from the state budget. No, former Finance Minister Martin Helme, that's what you decided! You wanted to increase excise duty even when growth is above 2%. At present, economic growth is 5.4%, but we are not going along with it by raising excise duty, but by maintaining the sunset clause, as you have decided. Acts go by the bill you agreed on a sunset clause. Another argument: the construction of four-line roads is pushed to a distant future, which in turn accelerates peripheralisation. First of all, you yourself didn't do much to reduce peripheralisation when you were in government. But I'll tell you what we're gonna do. An unprecedented increase in public investment is one of the cornerstones of the country's fiscal strategy. Never before has the Estonian economy been invested as much as we will in the next four years: a total of EUR 8 billion, EUR 2 billion each year. Much of this goes to improving connectivity, not only to the construction of roads, but also to the creation of an internet connection. You say that government policies undermine the security of Estonian families and homeowners. Local authorities will receive much more freely used money. The Fatherland itself has said that money must be free. Local authorities can decide for themselves what they are using this money for. They can aim precisely at which services [incentives], and it is the task of the local government to support the education of interest. It is therefore very important that people take part in municipal elections, report what is important to them and what is not. These are the tasks of the local government and the state has provided more money for them to be used free than it has previously been. You claim that government policy also gives a painful blow to the wallet of people who are deprived of income tax exemption on mortgage interest. Firstly, this exemption has been reduced several times. Secondly, this exemption was accepted in 1996 when the interest on the bank loan was 12 to 13%. Today, the interest rate on the bank loan is 2%, which means that such support is no longer needed. In its studies, the OECD has stated that this tax exemption is particularly conducive to better-insured families and contributes to inequality. That is why we have renounced the income tax exemption, which is no longer needed. In return, we have tried to help families who are not well - off. Social benefits are growing by 6%, or at a faster rate than total costs. You say that the government is stopping the development of Estonia's defence capabilities. Again, I have already said that the Defence Forces have never received as much money as they have in euros or in terms of their share of GDP, as they will. But the root of evil is still the billion-dollar bluff you wrote yourself into the state budget, which gave you the opportunity to share all kinds of naked promises. Indeed, if it feels like we've saved a billion already, then it's as if we can spend a billion more. But we don't have that money. You report that the intermediate increase in infections to the top of Europe is clearly the result of a mismanagement. If we look at these infection tables and at when the restrictions were relaxed, I understand it was a welcome-coming gift from your government to the new government. On 13 January, the previous Prime Minister resigned, and on 15 January, there was a meeting of your government, where you decided to relax the restrictions, because you did not want to give such a gift to the new government[that you would allow them to alleviate the restrictions]. I would say that it was very irresponsible from the point of view of the Estonian state and the people; you made this decision on the basis of some kind of spite, not the health of the Estonian people. No one could predict or detect the widespread spread of the British strain in real time. The second wave arose quite simultaneously in many countries, but what matters is where we are today. Since 10 June, there has been no corona death, and we have only three people in controlled breathing, so we have clearly managed to do this. But that doesn't mean there won't be a third wave. And the final statement: we have not been able to carry out a satisfactory vaccination of the population. Again, please look in the mirror. Last summer nothing was done to prepare the vaccination, which is why we had to put the vaccination arrangements in place in the middle of the most difficult health crisis. There are many places that could have been better, including the pace of supply. I would remind you that in your government, as I understand it, there was a great struggle to avoid buying any vaccines that have now proved successful, the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines. Thanks to the Fatherland and the Centre Party, who makes our vaccine portfolio a way to vaccinate people. I'm sure it's good. I also congratulate Estonian doctors and other health professionals who have increasingly vaccinated people and convinced the people to get vaccinated. Finally, you claim that I have not been able to solve the problem of pendulum migration involving tens of thousands of people between Estonia and Finland. Yes, the fact that Finnish borders are not open is a problem. We have dealt with this at a number of levels and have used various negotiating techniques to do so. Our relations with Finland are very good and my approach to the Finnish Prime Minister was also very benevolent. I wanted him to see our people's view, too, not only of him, but of the whole Finnish public, because he and I have talked a lot about it. The news came today; it is not yet definitively certain that commute migration, labour migration will return. This decision will be discussed by the Finnish Government Ministers this Thursday. But since those promises have been made before, before there are no final decisions, I wouldn't run ahead of this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U675	Unfortunately, we cannot move forward with questions relating to [this item on the agenda]. Mart Helme has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U676	Mr President-in-Office, is there any way to verify the adequacy of the speaker? I think there is a person here with a bipolar disorder who does not understand what position he is in now, what is expected of him and what is asked of him.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U677	This is not a procedural question. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U678	Good manager! I'm not going to diagnose it, but the point of my procedural question is this. I heard the question from my colleague, Martin Helme, but the Prime Minister, in answer, squealed down the memo that had been written to him. After the speech, you could answer the vigilante's question specifically, not dissipate a long text that could be distributed among all the questioners according to the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U679	It wasn't procedural. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U680	I listened to what you were saying. A little while ago, you said that the previous government did not make any preparations to set up a vaccination plan. It wasn't until December that the vaccines came out. I have a question: are you all right with your health? Do you understand what you're saying?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U681	It wasn't procedural. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U682	Thank you. Yeah, listening here, I'm really not surprised that everything in the government is messed up like porridge and cabbages. But I have a suggestion to the chair that maybe you'll take a break. Then our Prime Minister can provide some clarity in his papers so that he can still read the right thing at the right time. After all, it's comicical, what's going on here is all messed up, what to answer and who to answer. I haven't seen such an embarrassing moment here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U683	Mr Põljaas, your parliamentary experience is also slightly shorter. But I really think, ladies and gentlemen, that if you have any substantive questions, please present them during the time of the questions to which you have registered. These last four turns weren't procedural in any way. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U684	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to support the proposal of the maker of the previous procedural remark. It seems to me that we cannot move forward with our questions until the Prime Minister has brought himself up to speed on what has happened in this country in the meantime. In the context of last summer, talking about vaccine deliveries is absurd. I propose that we take a short break so that the Prime Minister can familiarise himself with what is happening in the country and that we can move forward with our questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U685	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U686	Thank you! On my previous question, you said, 'I asked you how Kaja Kallas's health is, 'that is not a procedural question'. I think this is a very procedural question, because when I see a person making things up, he talks about things that haven't happened, how can such a person run the country? Please check his health.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U687	Thank you. If necessary, doctors will check your health. It wasn't a procedural question. Let's move on to the main issues. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U688	Good manager! I will not burden the Prime Minister with complex questions. In answer to my question, I ask you to say yes or no. I'm talking about dogs, Andrus Ansip never loved dogs. At the beginning of April, the Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board, Elmar Vaher, admitted to us that on the evening of April 7, he informed the reputable Prime Minister of his intention to bring dogs and rapid reactioners to Toompea the following day. But since you were supposed to introduce us to the white book, he said that you asked for an extension in order to bring out the dogs and the Quick Reactioners a day later. I have asked you the same question many times, but I have not yet received an answer. Right now, I'm doing another experiment. Did you ask the director-general of the Police and Border Guard Board for an extension to bring out dogs and emergency response agents to Toompea?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U689	Thank you. You still have complaints about police action, I understand. However, there has been little complaint from people about police action. People still have full confidence in the police. I never said I didn't know what the police were doing. The police informed me of the situation: about what has happened, about the demonstrators gathering, and about the police's activities. The police have, of course, kept the Prime Minister informed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U690	Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U691	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! A lot of speculation has been heard lately, but it is also possible to read from your last interview that the current coalition is ready to move to Estonian-language school education. The Estonian Centre Party, however, advocates that parents retain the choice of language to put their children in school. As far as I know, there is also an agreement within the framework of this coalition that as a coalition, we do not deal with the transition. I would like to be clear on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U692	Thank you. Yes, in our coalition agreement, I do not have that right now literally ahead of us, we agreed to draw up an action plan for education in Estonian, and we have agreed that we will come up with this action plan in November. It is clear that no transition to education in Estonian can take place during this two years; it is a long process where several steps need to be prepared. The Estonian language development plan has also stated that most of the progress has been made by 2035. It's a long way off, our government will last for two years. What is important is perhaps that we increase the opportunities to learn Estonian, we are taking steps to enable the kindergarten to be in Estonian. But always, even later, there are still possibilities that education is organised in another language, as it is now in the French Lyceum of Tallinn or in the German Gymnasium of Tallinn. Such opportunities will certainly remain. We are also talking in the long term about the fact that the education system is mostly in Estonian and that education is mostly in Estonian.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U693	Now some procedural questions have arisen. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U694	Good manager! If you ask the Prime Minister for a clear answer, yes or no, and if he doesn't answer that way or pretends he doesn't hear it, are there any ways to call him back?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U695	These ways open up in the elections. Kalle Grünthal, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U696	Thank you very much. My protest is actually the result of the waitress' response to Peter Ernits. When a member of the Riigikogu asks a question, he wants some information. If Peter Ernits had asked his question and said, please, that he did not want a long story, whether or not the answer was yes, contrary to what was asked of the waitress, everything else came from there, but not the answer to the question. In other words, Peter Ernitsa essentially missed an answer to the question. We are in this Chamber precisely to get information about certain issues, and there should be honest and clear answers, not bizarre answers. On the basis of Article 74 (1) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of our Riigikogu, I find that the rules governing the conduct of the sitting have been violated. I therefore protest to the President of the sitting. On the basis of paragraph 2 of the same section, I would like to have an explanation of the rules governing the conduct of sittings. Should the person who answers the questions of the members of the Riigikogu answer specifically what is being asked for, or may he make a round talk about the remote?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U697	The commentary states that a breach of the rules of the sitting is, for example, a failure to open negotiations, to speak out or to follow other rules of the Rules of Procedure. We had a pretty intense debate here last week on how much the President can interfere with the content of the speech, and we have all made a relatively unanimous statement that we cannot prescribe either the content of the question, the content of the answer or the content of the speech. I myself really do not think that this should be done. But each member of the Riigikogu has two questions. If the first question does not seem to have received a proper answer, then the next question will be able to draw attention to it again and to quantify it. Whether or not the second time the question is answered, no one can guarantee or prescribe to anyone. I have a request that we continue to follow the [Prime Minister] questions in order, as everyone has come to register. But it looks like we can't. Urmas Reinsalu is also a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U698	Thank you, Mr President. The Prime Minister has answered questions in a balanced and mature manner in Question Time, including more demanding questions. Therefore, a situation where there is a serious threat at the same time, as if it were a matter of distrust to the government of Jüri Ratas, is a matter of certain uncertainty. Here are a long series of arguments concerning the activities of the Government of Jüri Ratas. The most dramatic complaint, I think, was that [the previous] government, when we were talking about mitigating the restrictions of Harjumaa and Ida-Virumaa, deliberately did so to set a trap for the new government. These are claims that, without doubt, require rejection, they cannot be left simply to be thrown out of the air in this way. However, our format is very limited. Is it possible for us to add contradictory statements to the written verbatim to contradict this type of statement? Even in the current situation, if Jüri Ratas is not himself present in Estonia. In my opinion, this type of claims, such as the current, new government that has taken office, are merely the executor of the will of the resigned government, who cannot do anything and for whom everything that has been done in the past is wrong, it does not really allow us to move forward constructively. Applying such reasoning is [not helpful]. What is the President's view on how can those claims which need to be clarified be corrected in substance and fact?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U699	First, you can draw attention to them in the introduction to your question. Then it will be possible to negotiate [to mention them] and thirdly, it will be possible to go out of this hall and say that something has been argued that is not true. There is no way we can and cannot supplement the tenogram afterwards. It would be forgery of history. Now let's try to get the procedural questions over with as soon as possible. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U700	Thank you! I still come to answer questions. As far as I am concerned, the Riigikogu is still a body that takes a little more precedence than the Government of the Republic and its representatives in various positions. In other words, if there is a situation such as today, the publication of mistrust and pre-confidence questions, I would still expect these questions to be answered in substance and honestly, and if there have been errors, they have been for absolutely all people, then mistakes will sometimes also be recognised. But right now we're in a situation where this particular form of question-and-answering between ordinary people doesn't work in substance. I totally don't understand what that remote control is talking about. Today they told me to go back to school. Of course, yes, I can go if I have to, but I think my education or education is a little higher than yours on the remote. That's what today showed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U701	Can we get to the procedural question, Kalle?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U702	Please tell us how to remind the waitress that she will report to us, because she is still the one who is obliged to report to us, but not to activate it with all sorts of answers. Tell me the rules.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U703	We are not ordinary people, we are members of the Riigikogu. Ordinary people also need to understand what's going on here, but the rules are different. As a result of drawing the attention of the members of the Riigikogu, I draw distrustful attention to the fact that I am not satisfied with the substance of the answers. Let us try to move forward with the most meaningful answers possible and with the most meaningful questions possible. Each member of the Riigikogu can ask two questions. Raimond Kaljulaid, please ask a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U704	Thank you, President of the sitting. You are well aware that I am not often asking procedural questions, so I have a good reason right now. I even have two procedural questions, both personally for you, good chairman of the sitting. The first of these is that you were the rapporteur for the motion of mistrust currently under discussion, and now you are chairing the sitting. I think we all expect objectivity and independence from the President of the sitting in this Chamber. How do you personally feel that, in the role of leader of this motion of distrust, you can also conduct an objective hearing? That's my first question. My second question concerns the comments made by your groupmates. According to § 66 of our Home and Working Procedures Act, the President of the Riigikogu ensures that the session of the Riigikogu is held on order. And § 72, which defines the President's rights, says that if the rapporteur, speaker or questioner uses inappropriate expressions, the President of the sitting shall make a comment to him. Several of your group's colleagues did indeed use inappropriate expressions today and were very rude to our Prime Minister. In my view, it is not enough in this situation to say that this is not a procedural issue and to move forward. The law requires a note to be made in such a situation and, if necessary, a microphone to be turned off. So, my first question was this: do you feel that you can be objective when you chair this sitting? And the second question was this: why have the Presidents of the sitting of the Riigikogu, Hanno Pevkur sitting in that chair before you, acted in accordance with the law on domestic and working procedures and made a comment to colleagues who behaved rudely?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U705	I will at least do my best to be impartial and independent of party membership and to chair the meeting in accordance with our rules. Unadapted remarks are still being thrown here from time to time. My understanding is that the President of the Riigikogu should not interfere with the content of questions and answers. I really would like, I think I have said this at least four times, so that we go on with questions and answers [to the Prime Minister] rather than dealing with procedural issues. Mart Helme, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U706	I object to the unobjective, patronizing and incriminating speech of the questioner. He has no moral or, frankly, no right under the Home and Working Procedures Act to patronize anyone and accuse anyone of being unobjective. In my opinion, this has not occurred either in the activities of the current Presidency or in those of the previous Presidency.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U707	The protest has been heard. Raimond Kaljulaid wants to continue with the procedural questions, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U708	Indeed, I very much apologise once again for interrupting the sitting, but as I said, I rarely do so, and then I have a reason. If you read the Home and Working Rules Act, you will certainly have a copy there, you will see that, unfortunately, the law says that such a remark must be made: "If the rapporteur, speaker or questioner uses inappropriate expressions, the President of the sitting shall make a remark to him. "I very much ask that the President of the sitting, at the moment you, as well as your colleagues on the Board of the Riigikogu, make a note of such inappropriate, rude speeches to the members of the Riigikogu and, if necessary, call them to order.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U709	Yeah, I agree. I even made one comment on Sunday, which was about the correct clothing of the members of the Riigikogu. So you can't blame me for not doing this when you need to. Now, fortunately, the procedural questions are over and we can continue to process a motion of mistrust. Lauri West Forest has a question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U710	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! In order to achieve the budgetary balance, as you are trying, the budget strategy provides for a number of activities, including, for example, the non-enabling of wage increases previously promised to savers and teachers. It will not be raised to 120% compared to Estonia's average wage; it will not happen in the coming years; rather it will decrease. The nurses also have problems with their pay. After all, this means that we are cutting the budget directly at the expense of these people's income, and the rest of society is not participating in the repayment of the loan. I have a question for you: why has the government chosen such a path that it is only the public-paid people whose wages do not rise in a situation where there is very high growth over a long period of time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U711	Thank you. Firstly, what I want to say is that on the contrary, we have made a huge effort to find money to raise the salaries of teachers, rescuers and police officers. I would remind you that in the previous country's budget strategy, there was a round zero written there. Yes, I admit that the 3% we see for this is not enough. But it's better than zero, and actually it's a big cost. As far as growth is concerned, yes, growth figures give hope that the situation will improve. Eesti Pank has said in its economic forecast that there is actually even more hope than it gave the range of economic growth that could still come. That's positive. But let's look at Estonia's budget calendar, we'll follow it. This means that we will take the next decisions in September when we come to the Riigikogu with the state budget. We have no reason to run ahead of this budget calendar with our decisions. Of course, we also want to raise nurses' wages, raise the wages of rescuers, policemen, and teachers. For the latter, we have already foreseen a raise. But it is also true that a billion-dollar bluff was included in the previous country's budget strategy against which ours was compared. If it has been said that we have saved a billion more costs, then we should therefore be able to make even more costs. As a result, every dream was made that was not willing to give up. Therefore, these examples, which are given in order to find places of austerity, are perhaps precisely those that would create opposition. But we're going to follow this budget calendar exactly as agreed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U712	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U713	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good lord! In your introductory speech, you referred a few times to my humble person. I must tell you that I have not taken part in the work of the government, but it is clearly the work of the government to draw up a country's budget strategy. So it is very difficult for me to be responsible for the holes or for the abundance or shortage that prevails there. True, I have been one of Fatherland's leading politicians, but I have not put together a country's budgetary strategy. But now I would like to come to the budgetary strategy of your government and your country. First of all, I want to understand whether you believe that your government has any priority areas and whether national defence is one of those possible priorities. You referred on several occasions to how defence costs would increase. But when I look at the RES you put together, I see that really, next year, defence costs will be 2.31% of GDP, but in 2024 they will be 2.02%. This will not be more than in 2022, you will reduce the cost of national defence. Last week, when there was a mistrust of the Minister of Defence and I asked about the planned proceeds from the sale of the Port of Mines, it was like this sale was being overturned, it was not being carried out, the Minister of Defence stated that this was a hypothetical line. Please comment on this!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U714	Thank you. Of course, the country's budgetary strategy has priorities. Defence investments are one of the priorities, and that is why this area will get more money, unlike other areas that will not get more money. So defence is definitely a priority. The second priority has been to raise the salaries of teachers, police and rescuers. Yes, as I said in reply to the previous questioner, it is very small, but compared to zero, as was the case in the previous country's budget strategy, it is bigger. These areas are in focus. In addition, of course, to reform the state, which also means finding different synergies. The green turn and the digital turn are also priorities of our government.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U715	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U716	Thank you. Prime Minister! My question concerns environmental policy. This is one of the issues on which I had quite high expectations of the government you led, given that the previous government's scientific consensus is very far from being ambiguity about environmental and climate concerns. Now, frankly, the words are beautiful, both heard from you and read from the coalition treaty, there are a few beautiful declarations. But if you look at the real activities of the last six months, you go on with the oil factory, you start subsidising the burning of wood in Narva, you start grading forest data and there are a number of other decisions, then frankly, I can't find any such real decisions. I am not talking about sharing euro money, it is all that are doing anyway, but a real political decision that is positive from an environmental point of view. I have even heard the assessment that this has so far been one of the worst governments since the Juhan Parts government. How is it that your words are green, but your actions are beautifully dirty?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U717	Thank you. I don't agree with you. First, the oil factory. We said that we would not put taxpayers' money in that oil factory again, and we have not. The EUR 125 million that has already been allocated during the previous government has so far remained, but we will not invest any more taxpayers' money there. Second, wood burning. As I said in response to Question Time, this is a short-term, temporary measure designed to prevent heat prices in Narva from rising unreasonablely and to avoid a socio-economic problem. We have this measure limited to two years, it is limited to a price and it is limited to a quantity, as well as to the diameter of the wood. In any case, this means using wood waste for a very short period of time. Looking at the specific decisions we have made in relation to Ida-Viru County, we can see that we have decided to channel all the money from the Fair Transition Fund to Ida-Viru County. The previous government also had it directed to other parts of Estonia. This is what is needed to bring about the necessary change. There's more of those steps. So in this respect, I do not agree with your assessment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U718	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U719	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! The claim that you will not run away from budget implementation problems by cutting the budget is, to put it mildly, not valid. The first thing you've signaled was that you're cutting government expenses, running expenses. To be honest, you have caused a very serious problem in terms of the well-being of the people of the power structures, because the announcements of redundancies were immediately handed out to certain people in the Defence Forces. Take the orchestra, for example, but I don't want to talk about it anymore right now. I'll tell you in general. I've got a lot of cops I know who's worried. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] They're afraid they're gonna lose their pay, they're gonna lay off. And what is the question? The question is that the previous period of government, an extremely cynical decision...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U720	Time, Riho!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U721	Yeah, I'm almost done. ...it was that retired policemen, who were sent out early from the service, would no longer receive a pension.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U722	Time, Riho!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U723	Many fear that their ministry will end and that they will be deprived of what they have earned. How do we solve this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U724	Please respect the one-minute requirement. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U725	Thank you. At present, the Minister of the Interior is in charge of finding potential savings in his administration. The services of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior that overlap will also be dealt with. As long as the final decisions have not been taken, there is no point in commenting on this either.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U726	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U727	Thank you, Mr President. Good mistrust! On 25 January, you gave the Prime Minister's speech here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. Your speech highlighted various crises, and as a fourth crisis, you mentioned the corruption crisis. I quote your words: "I am a lawyer in my profession, and my worldview and beliefs relate to the belief in the rule of law. That's why I'm so passionate about this. " However, during your reign, I will give you a few examples of elite vaccinations in the first few days. This is what you kept quiet, and I didn't hear the condemnation. It wasn't reflected anywhere. In the same way, you stopped money laundering [in a case] and, at the end of the day, sent a person who was clearly interested in it. Similarly, we have experienced numerous exaggerations of power in connection with popular demonstrations or demonstrations. My question is, how have you fought for this corruption for which, as you say, you are fighting very passionately? Please give a specific example.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U728	Thank you. I'm not fighting for corruption, I'm fighting corruption. That's one. The first thing we came to the government was to adopt the recommendations of GRECO. We have drawn up a draft that the ministers' advisers must also make a declaration of their economic interests. We ended this contract that is harmful to the Estonian state, which paid a very, very large amount of money to an American law firm, but does not know what it was for. A new manager, one of the best experts in this field, started working at the Money Laundering Data Bureau. That's the list I'm about to remember. We still have the draft law of the Government of the Republic, in addition to the [proposal] to supplement the powers of the Political Financing Monitoring Commission, as we promised in the Coalition Agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U729	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U730	Thank you, President-in-Office. Madame Kallas! I am immensely pleased that we have presented this motion of distrust because your performance, your talk, is completely inadequate. And those lies that you keep repeating, this bipolar disorder you represent, it's as if the question was the mistrust of Jüri Ratas' government and his actions, not the mistrust of your government, your person. Basically, you're already the ex-Prime Minister, except you don't understand it yet. Well, it'll take a few months and you'll get it. Here's the question. You keep telling me how you were left with a billion-dollar budget holes. Don't you understand anything? This claim has been repeatedly refuted. Don't you understand anything or do you just lie, multiply and multiply that lie? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I don't want a long answer from you because then you're repeating the same lie again. So tell me, which one do you have...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U731	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U732	Do you have a complete misunderstanding about things or are you lying?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U733	Thank you. My arguments are supported by both Eesti Pank, the Estonian Budget Council and the former Minister of Finance Martin Helme, who confirmed this budget bluff in an interview given to the Estonian Päevaleht.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U734	George Jaanson has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U735	I have a procedural question. I will also sit in this Chamber, Mr President, and as far as I understand, the previous questioner practically assessed the presentation of the Prime Minister on the whole question. I don't agree with them in any way. Among other things, he accuses him of lying or expressing lies and inadequateness, etc. I think that substantive questions should be asked here, and I think that you are very much indebted to the previous questioner.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U736	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The lines can be exchanged between themselves in the round of negotiations. I wouldn't want to tell any questioner what he's asking, and I wouldn't want to tell him how he's asking. However, I advise you not to diagnose each other. Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U737	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I have to say, unfortunately, that I cannot agree with the way in which you describe the financing of national defence, because neither the process nor the action reflect substance, but still the effect [reflects content]. If the increase in [funding] results in a reduction in composition and closure of functions, this is a reduction in substance. My question is, why do you make such a choice that you are partly maintaining [the previous government], such as the sunset clause, but in matters of national defence, you did not maintain the previous financing plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U738	Thank you. We promised a tax peace in the coalition agreement, and that is why we will not be affected by taxes. Therefore, all decisions on taxes remain valid.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U739	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U740	Thank you, Mr President. Good mistrust! Here's the question. On 4 March 2021, you launched a new legal definition through the media, which literally sounded as if we were dealing with a substantive emergency situation in the Republic of Estonia. Later, Minister Jaani confirmed that this substantive situation had been put in place. Some time later, it was admitted that there was no specific situation of substance, but that it was due to the law. In the context of this substantive special situation, of course, you demonstrated a powerful mob cult in the Republic of Estonia, and the freedom of opinion and expression of the people was harassed. I ask you this: do we have a substantive emergency today, or is it already invalid?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U741	Thank you. As you are well aware, the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases, which was amended last spring when you were in the government, gave the Government of the Republic every opportunity to impose restrictions. The only thing that would have required a legal emergency would have been to use the defence forces for more than 30 days. Why did I say we had a substantive emergency? It was precisely because people felt that an emergency would solve something. But in fact, all these things, all these limitations, all these decisions, we were able to make thanks to your initial laws without imposing an emergency situation. You are also a lawyer from education yourself, and you know that if there is no legal need for construction or there is no legal need to make any decisions, you should not do so either in the sense of a sign or in order to intimidate people. So that was the reason. All these restrictions could be imposed. What's the situation now? The Health Board has assessed that according to all the indicators we have agreed, our threat level has fallen to yellow levels. From there it is a very small step to the green level, so in terms of infectious diseases it is certainly no longer as anxious as it was when these figures were very large and we were at a red, critical level of risk.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U742	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U743	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Prime Minister! The lying Prime Minister is, unfortunately, quite boring to hear, especially when lies repeat. We got a good ass today from Dr. Goebbels' arsenal: blaming everyone else. I have a more general question. Taavi Kõivas, Tanel Kiige and, unfortunately, your example also show us what happens when amateurs experiment with government. Since I can't ask Clothes and Swing, I'm asking your opinion. How long do you rely on management or employer experience to assume that you have the competence to lead the government and state?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U744	Thank you. My CV is completely public to everyone and there are very different types of experience. On the one hand, I have 14 years of experience as a lawyer in the private sector, which I highly appreciate. I was also a partner at two law firms, ran law offices there. I have been Chairman of the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu; I have been a Member of the European Parliament. All these titles and jobs are well-known. I believe that compared to many others, my resume is abundant, but the beauty is in the eyes of the viewer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U745	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U746	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Prime Minister! I must continue the issue of immigration again and again, and indeed, I must admit that your attitude towards immigration policy does not give rise to confidence. It really is not appropriate for the Prime Minister to start blaming the previous government again instead of a substantive answer, and you know that the previous government presented a very comprehensive draft to the Riigikogu proceedings, which regulated immigration, and it was your government's decision that removed it from the proceedings. I'm just a servant of the people, and it's not about me whether or not it's building confidence in me. According to surveys, only 3% of Estonian citizens want large-scale immigration from another cultural space. I hate to grovel, but I really wonder if you have realised that you should still be the Prime Minister of Estonia as a whole, including the 97% who do not want this large-scale immigration.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U747	Thank you. Of course, the Prime Minister is the Prime Minister of Estonia as a whole. By the way, I would like to inform you that this Aliens Act is in Riigikogu proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U748	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U749	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! First of all, I would like to point out that when we talk about a tax truce, a tax truce is a situation where taxes are not raised. But you're still raising taxes, so whatever the way it comes, the tax increase is a tax increase, and then don't talk about tax truce. But you've beaten the previous government here for this, also today, that the EKRE, according to you, somehow slowed down the purchase of vaccines. That's not true. EKRE opposed putting all the eggs in one basket. And now we know that we have 800000 doses of AstraZeneca that we tend to give to somebody. My question to you: have you talked to the Minister for Social Affairs about why today we have a situation where we basically have over a few million euros of vaccines that are not going to work in Estonia or which the Estonian people do not want to use? With this money, we could have financed a lot of the places you're going to cut today. Have you talked about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U750	Thank you. Yes, we have. First of all, I am certainly grateful to the previous government, which has decided not to put all the eggs in one basket and to participate in several procurements of vaccines, so that we do not have a situation like that in Latvia, for example, where contributions were really placed on one producer. So I'm sure I'll thank you for that. I was not at the table of the previous government, and therefore I cannot confirm or disprove how these things really were and who stood for what they stood for. But you probably know better than anyone that some of the decisions you've made may seem right or wrong, but afterwards we always have more information than we had to make. Looking at the actions of the Latvian Government, for example, they also hoped that the AstraZeneca vaccine might be the safest. It is therefore such a hindsight to say that one or the other bet was right or wrong or that money could have been saved, but perhaps certain vaccines would not have come at all. I don't know what to say. Today we are smarter than we were yesterday, and it may not be right to criticise these decisions in this light.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U751	In the meantime, a new procedural issue has arisen and not at all from the opposition. Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U752	Thank you very much. I'm sorry I missed the hall right away, and I have to say that it is difficult for me to even ask this procedural question right now. What happened a few minutes ago, how you, the honourable vice-president of the Riigikogu, allowed Mart Helme, a member of the Riigikogu, to seriously insult the Prime Minister, but not only him, we are viewed by many people, bringing some comparisons that may affect the health of many people in Estonia, but not by the Prime Minister. This has nothing to do with the Prime Minister's work. Please try to stop such questions in the future. I don't know if it's possible to avoid them in this hall. My procedural question was a protest against your actions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U753	No, I'm not going to interrupt the vigilantes' questions, I can promise you that. Mart Helme has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U754	I would like to protest against the procedural reply of the previous speaker. I think the Prime Minister has insulted those who have mistrusted him with his dim accusations against the previous government. One of the parties to the previous government, by the way, is also a party to the current government. [Prime Minister] has lied to the public, openly lies from the speaker, accusing, among other things, the former Minister of Finance, accusing several other ministers of matters that are not valid, the presentation of which, as the Prime Minister does, is not adequate. And to accuse me of insulting the Prime Minister, after the Prime Minister has insulted those who have mistrusted him, is simply not appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U755	George Jaanson has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U756	Yeah, I have a procedure. Everything that Mart Helme presented here earlier should now be proved with facts where the Prime Minister has lied or misrepresented. If Mart Helme can't do it, he should do it later, then I think you need to make a serious remark to him so that such questions are no longer asked here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U757	Thank you. Mart Helme continues to have a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U758	Yeah. Again, we see here the honourable reform parties twisting the truth. I haven't diagnosed anyone. I asked very clearly whether it was possible to check that he didn't have... He doesn't have a chance to check? That is what the previous Presidency said it wasn't. And it was a procedural question, and it is. Check the verbatim, please. I haven't diagnosed anyone. I asked if it was possible to check, because the answers indicate that there is something very inadequate here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U759	Riina Sikkut has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U760	Good manager! I must say that it is quite customary that the previous governments have done everything wrong and that the government in office is doing everything right. This is what we saw with the previous government, probably also with the next government. It's such a normal battle. What is outrageous and unacceptable is stigmatisation of mental health. We have hundreds of people who work daily to reduce stigmas related to mental health. We all have physical health, we all have mental health. Nearly half of us are affected by mental health problems throughout our lives. These people must have the courage to admit it, seek help, and get help. And in this Chamber, we must bear in mind these public health objectives for all speeches. If the members of the Riigikogu are not aware of this, it is indeed the task of the President to pay attention to it. This is not only about diagnosis, so-called or not diagnosis, but all this attitude towards mental health concerns is totally deplorable and shameful.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U761	Once again, I do not think it is up to the President to prescribe the content of questions or answers. These are political disputes. Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U762	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! The motion of censure presented to us tells us that the conditions created by the previous government, including the strengthening of Estonia's defence capabilities, have been played out in a few months under the leadership of Kaja Kallas. That is a very funny statement and I ask you to comment on it. First of all, didn't it occur that during the previous government, important allies and partners were often attacked and discredited? It seems to me that nothing like this has happened during the current government. Secondly, as far as real defence capabilities are concerned, reading the state budget strategy presented by the current government, I see that defence expenditure, currently EUR 615 million, will increase to EUR 712 million by 2025. I understand 712 million is a bigger number than 615 million. Have I got something wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U763	Thank you. No, you haven't misunderstood, it's really a bigger number than 645 million. It's all correct. And it is also true that we build relations with our allies on very positive foundations. I was only at the NATO summit on Monday, where I had very good meetings, including with the new President of the United States, Joe Biden, who listened to us and was prepared to take account of our concerns. He was very supportive, as he himself has once stood in the Senate for the Baltic States to become members of NATO. So surely our relationship with our allies is better than they were in the past, and certainly neither have we oppressed any plan B or any other matter that could actually undermine our security in the end.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U764	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U765	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! In the middle of May, 40 local government leaders sent you a letter pointing out that the reduction in the funding of recreational education by EUR 7 million will certainly also reduce access to recreational education and that municipalities will have to rethink their plans. That is my question: why have you not abandoned this idea, even after there have been positive signals of growth and additional revenues? Why are you not prepared to abandon your plan to promote regional development and make education a priority?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U766	As I have already said many times, there is a calendar for the processing of the Estonian budget and it provides for decisions next September when the state budget is to be submitted to the Riigikogu. We're moving according to the same calendar. As far as local authorities are concerned, the promise of the Fatherland was that the money was free, and now it is for local governments to have more money, which is free and which they can use for recreational education or even for what is important in their region. That's the deal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U767	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U768	Thank you, Mr President. Good mistrust! You certainly have not missed the debates that have taken place here in the last week in the Riigikogu, particularly with regard to the bill 366, which was now adopted. The reason why the work of the Riigikogu in the course of this draft procedure has been so slowed down and hindered by the fact that there is certainly a great responsibility for the current government. This is because, in a situation where our group expressed very clear opposition to this draft and to the government's road roll policy to pass it at all costs, the government sacrificed a number of other draft laws that never came into being. So I ask you this: for what reason was this bill so important to the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U769	Thank you. If you think I can track all these debates or procedural questions, I wouldn't call them debates, you're wrong. I don't think you're gonna be able to track them yourself. In the meantime, during the proceedings, it could be seen that [in the large hall] only four of you were present, while 57 of the coalition were present. I don't think you're gonna be able to track it yourself. But why? Because these debates have not been substantive. I have wondered what the reproaches are, but the amendments and the debate are concentrated here on something else. If [debate] were substantive, it would also be possible to talk about what concerns are, but it has not been substantive.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U770	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U771	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister! In your speech, you claimed that there were EKRE and Fatherland in the previous government, and blamed them for any trouble, starting with the budget, etc. Why are you lying to the Estonian people and not explaining that your current partner in the Centre Party was also in the previous government and the Prime Minister was Jüri Ratas, Chairman of the Centre Party? Why do you blaze and lie and not say things clearly and honestly to the people of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U772	Thank you. The complaints that I have received relate to the economy and the budget. The Minister of Finance was EKRE. There are also complaints regarding the defence area, for which the Minister was the representative of the Pro Patria Party. And, of course, I believe that no one has forgotten that the previous Prime Minister was Jüri Ratas. But thanks for reminding me.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U773	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U774	Thank you, Mr President. AstraZeneca is known to have had insufficient studies of its side effects and it is not known how long it will last. However, despite the fact that adverse reactions were not known in subjects over 66 years of age, the immunoprophylaxis committee still adopted a decision to start their vaccination. Maris Jesse, Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Social Affairs, as well as the representative of the Estonian Society for Infective Diseases, the representative of the Estonian Association of Family Doctors, the representative of the Estonian Association of Children's Doctors, the representative of the Estonian Association of Nurses, the representative of the Health Board, the representative of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, the representative of the Agency of Medicines. Question: why is there no epidemiologist involved in this committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U775	Thank you. First of all, an important announcement for everyone in this hall: Finland went to take the lead in football. But second, the answer to the question: The immunoprophylaxis commission has been put together by the Ministry of Social Affairs and, apparently, by the expertise that these people have.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U776	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U777	Good manager! Prime Minister! I repeat my question and please answer yes or no. My question continues to be the same. On April 7, Chief of Police Vaher announced that dogs and rapid-reactors would come to Toompea. But you asked for an extension so that you could come to show us the white book the next day without the dogs screaming in front of the castle and the automatics standing there. I ask you for a second time today: either you asked for an extension on the evening of 7 April or no+ Please answer yes or no.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U778	Thank you. The Finnish gate was said to have been cancelled. But what I'd say is, there's no way to prevent dogs from screaming. What happened on April 7, I don't remember in that detail. Yeah, that's what I've said, I've been kept informed all along about what's going on, how the police shape their tactics, why and what and when something is done.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U779	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U780	Thank you. Prime Minister! I've been listening here and I realized that the previous government was responsible for everything and the economy was in a very bad state. If the economy was still in very bad shape at the end of last year and at the beginning of this year, how is it possible that in four or five months the economy can bring the economy to a very good position? I have always known that the economy is moving as a process, and decisions are made before the tide or recession, which create the assumption of either a rise or a fall. There are also objective reasons for this. Would you point out the decisions taken by the current government between January and May that the economy rose to more than 5%?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U781	Thank you. That's a good question. In particular, there was a reason for the additional budget that we adopted or, rather, met in eight days. This included EUR 645 million in a very targeted way to support the areas most hit in this crisis. It is known that the whole economy was not affected by the crisis, some sectors were doing very well. It was precisely for those sectors that were hit that this additional budget was targeted. Eesti Pank also admits that this was well targeted.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U782	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U783	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Madam Prime Minister! In January, I asked two questions about defence costs and midland air control. Now you quite rightly quoted the new RES table 82, according to which defence costs in 2022 will be EUR 704.9 million, representing 2.31% of [GDP]. We are grateful that you left a purchase of 46 million euros of coastal defence missile systems in it. But now on: 688.3 million euros in 2023, 2.14%, 680.5 million euros in 2024, 2.02%, 712.1 million euros in 2025, or 2.02%. Over the four years, growth will be eight million and the share will fall from 2.31% to 2.02%. Formally, everything is right, but it is clear that the new development plan, which is still unconfirmed, cannot be drawn up within this framework, because it is simply dangerous in terms of security policy. I have this question: would you not think about it until autumn and consider carefully what to do with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U784	Thank you. Estonian investments in defence costs never fall below 2%. We are among the ten Member States that fulfil this 2% commitment. This 2% is related to gross domestic product, so when the economy grows, the absolute value of defence expenditure increases in euro, because the percentage is taken from a larger amount. That's exactly what it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U785	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U786	Honourable Vice President! Good lord! Your persistence honors you, although I'm not sure how reasonable it is. 2,31% is clearly [greater] than 2,02%. Since 1999, when 2% was agreed, no government has reduced it; it has always increased. Your government has decided that defence costs will decrease from 2.31% to 2.02%. This is a very clear reduction. But now I will come back to the country's budget strategy and Jüri Ratas, who is not in this Chamber today. You have called Jüri Ratas double-faced. I have this question: is the fact that he is not here today arbitrary, symbolic, or related to the behaviour you attributed to him?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U787	Thank you. The Chairman of the Riigikogu currently represents Estonia in Switzerland and this visit was long in advance. The mistrust wasn't planned for that long. Or maybe you did? It was, okay, everybody's nodding. You had it planned for a long time, so you might be able to answer that question better.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U788	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U789	Good Prime Minister! You answered my previous question that it would not be worth commenting on these cuts in people before unless the agencies gave a specific figure, concrete how to say, visions. But what I'm still trying to say is that we're talking about people who have learned these disciplines and who are worried about whether they can continue. Your government has decided that those people who do not have health or other problems that allow them to earn until retirement age will lose their special pension. These people are just worried and they want to be sure that they have chosen the right specialty. A policeman's specialty isn't easy to study, neither are the Defence Forces. My question is this: how can it still be arranged so that they lose their worries and continue to serve happily?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U790	Thank you. I very much agree with you that this is a hard job and a very respectable job that policemen and rescuers do. With regard to the issue of their pension, all the decisions that have been made and are still being made in relation to pensions do not concern those who are already working in this field. This can never be the case because these people have had a legitimate expectation of receiving a pension. These decisions concern special pensions for the future. When we talk more broadly, it is a major reform that actually affects not so much the police and rescuers, but the representatives of other areas of life who have received a special pension.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U791	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U792	Thank you. Prime Minister! In 2019, when the Reform Party was in opposition in this Chamber, you submitted a draft decision for the transition to education in Estonian and provided for a transition to education in Estonian, if I remember correctly, by 2022. The current government has confirmed the development plan, according to which most of the education system in Estonian will be transferred by 2035. I'll ask what happened and how so. A few years ago, you considered it possible to switch to the Estonian education system in a few years, but now in government it will probably take decades. Today, you stressed that the transition in a few years is not even conceivable. What has happened to your attitudes and views on the transition to education in Estonian?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U793	Thank you. We never said it would happen in two years. This draft decision, which we submitted, was also marked by a longer period in order to be able to take appropriate steps. Now, this current development plan for Estonian is, in fact, a very good political compromise between all political parties. You, who were in the government, also took no step towards education in Estonian. But now we have this development plan, which we have all agreed on for a longer period. However, the longer period depends on smaller decisions. Smaller decisions are what we can and will do in this government. In November of this year, we will adopt an action plan for education in Estonian, which lists all these steps together with the corresponding funding.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U794	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U795	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! It is rather strange to listen here to your spin on defence costs and defence capabilities, if it is absolutely clear that you will reduce the planned defence budget by about EUR 100 million over four years, and then you will consider all the listeners to be, well, naive gullible, who believe in this nonsense that this amount is actually increasing and you are raising it. Well, of course it's growing, but thanks to the fact that you didn't go down 2%. But you didn't say until a while ago in one of your responses that your government was honest, and a little while later, when you talked about defence spending, you said that defence spending would reach a record high in terms of GDP. That's a direct lie! Please tell me honestly who will benefit from damaging Estonia's defence capabilities. Who are you doing this for?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U796	Thank you. Estonia's defence capabilities are strong and are based on both our own defence capabilities and the collective defence that comes from NATO. In NATO, our relationship with our allies is better now than in the previous government. It's been confirmed everywhere. NATO itself may also have better times, because it was Monday that NATO's political unity was confirmed. The validity of Article 5 was confirmed that if one needs help, others will come to the aid. And the increase in defence spending is included in the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U797	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U798	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I would like to thank you for my interest in tax policy. It's because of your report and your explanation. That is why I hope that you will allow me to ask this question: tax truce - how can I understand this? I understand that tax truce means that taxes will not be affected and the tax burden will not change. That's what you promised in the election. But now it turns out that this sunset clause, which dates back to the time of the previous government, you decided not to change, even though it changes the tax burden. We are facing an increase in land tax, a loss of the mortgage tax exemption. Nothing here is saying that we have a tax peace ahead of us. Maybe I misunderstood something, so it would be really nice if you could explain it to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U799	Thank you. Yes, in the case of taxes, including excise duties, we have agreed that we will not change the decisions that have been taken. The decision that excise duties will rise back to the same level as they were before has been made during the previous government, and we will not go into it. As far as the tax burden is concerned, according to my memory, it falls from 35% to 33%. But tax peace is not about the tax burden directly, it is about changing tax laws, and that is not what we are doing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U800	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U801	Thank you very much. Good mistrust! Why is it that every time the Reform Party comes up to the levers of power, the circle of political decision-makers becomes loose for some reason or, as the media has said, the decision-maker is Mr. Nilsson? Somehow the administrative state is getting stronger, the bureaucracy is increasing. The reduction in the ability of the Estonian state to decide independently is clearly perceived, the bureaucracy is strained. Partocracy is getting so strong that the gap between the people and the country is increasing. Let me give you an example, which is also part of the question. When the Reform Party was in power in 2014, you introduced a reform of the Penal Code, which essentially invalidated § 48 of the Constitution, i.e. the possibility of winding up a criminal party. Now that you're in power, do you reclaim in the Penal Code the possibility that a criminal party can be eradicated?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U802	No, we're not. There's already a lot of paragraphs in the Penal Code. So, no, we don't have a plan like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U803	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U804	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Today's infection rate per 100000 inhabitants is 64.1 in Estonia, as you know very well, and in Finland, 22.7 in Finland. In the light of this knowledge, the article of your Helsinkin Sanomat was still very angry with the Finns. My Finnish friends say that the mood among Finns is now such that we allow these Estonians to come home to our relatives, but let them take a one-way ticket. Well, folk diplomacy's gonna smooth this shit out. But the question is this: have you heard that, for example, the Somali Prime Minister's Somali-speaking community in Finland is quite large, through Hesar, would have solved the problems of his fellow countrymen or that a Finnish politician would have published an article in Postimees to collect internal political points in Finland?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U805	Thank you. In fact, you should also stand here in the Riigikogu for the people of Estonia and their interests. Finland has a very large Estonian community. For months there has been a situation that people have had to choose between two places: either work in Finland or live with a family in Estonia. The fact that we are communicating with the Prime Minister of Finland and that I publicly write about these concerns so that they can reach the Finnish public has actually been correct. In any case, this [Article] was not in any way offensive, nor does the Finnish Government feel attacked in any way. It was a very friendly and respectful letter, so in any case, it made sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U806	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U807	Madam Prime Minister! I still have to continue with this immigration issue. In Question Time, you noted that in the field of immigration, you intend to eliminate the need-based education allowance paid to students from third countries on behalf of the Estonian taxpayer. It's going to be eliminated. Yeah, it's definitely a rooster step in the right direction, but maybe just a tenth of the whole thing, and actually it's been dragging in the right direction. However, if we continue to bring in cheap labour, which pushes wages down, our economy will focus on those sectors that need this cheap workforce, [just cheap labour], and innovation will slow down. Our labour productivity is 74% of the European Union average. I have a question: do you or do you really not intend to limit the influx of cheap labour?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U808	Thank you. The aim of the strategy "Estonia 2035" is to raise the Estonian population to 110% of the average wage in Europe. As you said, it's 74% now, so it's lower than the average. That is a very high objective. What can be done to achieve this? This requires making the economy smarter, because smarter jobs are also more productive. That should be the focus. This is exactly how the economy has evolved, moving towards a smarter economy with greater added value. Then jobs change, too, but not all jobs go away. There are a number of such jobs that, unfortunately, Estonians go to Finland, Finns to Sweden and Swedes to Norway. And then there's a question, but who do we do these jobs? A good example is agriculture, where at least last summer there was a large shortage of seasonal workers, who were not found in Estonia, despite the fact that unemployment was higher in Estonia at the time. Farmers say that the Estonian person is no longer willing to work so hard. It also shows the development of our society and our economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U809	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U810	Thank you, Mr President. Good mistrust! First of all, I congratulate the members of the EKRE Group on the politely formulated and substantive issues, especially in comparison with the Reform Party and the Socialist issues in distrusting our ministers. But my question is that, on 25 January in this very Chamber, when you spoke to the Prime Minister, you referred to the sixth crisis as a crisis of truth and said: "We live in an age where lies spread quickly and far away. [---] In today's information society, it is easier to publish lies repeatedly and to prevent their spread almost impossible. " Today's government has become a government of lies. It has happened repeatedly that you have lied to people and Parliament here, [have lied] the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Labour and Health, the Minister of Defence, the Minister of the Interior. And you keep lying. Within the framework of all this, I have a question as to when you are finally going to deal with this truth crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U811	Thank you. You're making statements that you're not proving. It is always good to put forward arguments, which you can prove, so it is also possible to disprove them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U812	The procedure, Kert Kingo!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U813	I want to draw the Prime Minister's attention to the fact that there is only one minute to ask the question. But please look at all the verbatim reports that exist about what happened here in the Riigikogu, and then the allegations have been proven.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U814	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U815	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I still come back to my original question, which concerns the financing of recreational education. I understand your claim that money is free, that your government's priority is the money-free government. You think that if the municipality doesn't have any money, it's very good and the whole problem is solved. I'm not gonna go any further with that thought. But you also blew up a hypothetical solution so that all of a sudden these EUR 7 million could be added to the municipal income base. Are you planning on increasing the overall revenue base? If so, this debate would have ended here too. If not, why do you give such ambiguous answers, but the right and clear signal you intend not to give?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U816	Thank you. If your logic is that "money is free" means money-free, will it also apply to those people who are now free of pension money in the case of the logic that you have now presented to local authorities? I do not have these specific figures on how much local government revenue will increase in the coming years, and therefore I do not dare to answer you at the moment, but I know it will grow. I can't give you a specific number. According to my memory, it was considerably higher than EUR 7 million, which was money with a so-called sign.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U817	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U818	Thank you. Good mistrust! You have expressed your views on the previous government several times today. And it seems to me that I will not harm you if I sum up your positions in such a way that the previous government was very bad for Estonia and they did a lot of evil things. Now there's a question, no matter what. Since you called the previous government the EKRE and the Fatherland government, although it still goes to the history books under the name of the government of Jüri Ratas, I will ask you a detailed question about your position. In your opinion, what was the position and role of the Centre Party in the previous government? Was the third of what the previous government did still the right thing, or does the Centre Party also share responsibility for all the bad things you think the previous government did?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U819	Thank you. No Estonian government has been all bad, just as no Estonian government has been all good. After all, good and bad decisions have always been made. Those things that I pointed out came from the fact that you mistrust me with claims that actually involve your own actions. I am not distrusted by the Centre Party at the moment, so that is why I was referring to the contradiction in your arguments, actions and words.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U820	Igor Kravtšenko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U821	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! Coming back to your meeting with Joe Biden, I ask you, what message did you give him to meet Putin?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U822	Thank you. That is a very good question, precisely because the meeting of Joe Biden with the Prime Ministers of the three Baltic States was, in some respects, a sign because it took place before the meeting with President Putin. One of the main things I also stressed was that there has been a great deal of talk about arms control in relation to Russia: we are signing an arms control agreement, we are restricting arms control and we are restricting exercises near the border. I pointed out that this could damage our security because Russia has not complied with the agreements that have been made in the past on arms control. If it is now agreed that, within the limits of NATO's borders, for example, within a 100 km radius, there will be no exercises or no forces being held, that means that the security of our countries will actually be damaged, because NATO countries will probably fulfil their obligations, but we have no reason to assume that Russia will also comply with these agreements. These were the main concerns we could bring out. There was also talk about the presence of NATO, the United States units in the Baltic States, about what the plans are. On the other hand, it was not only about what we get or want from America, but also about what we can work with America, whether it be about innovation, cybersecurity or technology concerns that America has. Those are the things that we were talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U823	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U824	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Madam Prime Minister! The second question I had in January was about midland air control. You mentioned that this is important and could be a priority. But it was clear that it would not fit into the protection costs of 2,23%, and it would certainly not fit if these costs were reduced to 2,02%. When we are talking about a four-battery battalion, it is a cost of EUR 250 to 300 million. For three and two battery battalions, the cost is a quarter or a half less, but the amount is still quite high. I ask you this: is the budgetary balance really the top priority for you compared to everything else, including national defence and internal security? If that's the case, say it and we won't ask a lot of questions anymore.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U825	Thank you. As far as this particular anti-aircraft is concerned, with all these great capabilities, we are discussing with the other Baltic countries precisely in order to [to clarify] whether there are any capabilities that we can develop together. If we develop alone, these are too expensive, but if we act together, the three of us may be able to protect the entire region. Defense ministries, defence ministers are consulting on this issue. If there's anything that needs to be developed, we can talk about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U826	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U827	Thank you. Prime Minister! With all due respect, however, I do not really want to agree with this economic issue. In order for the economy to grow, a platform on which it grows is needed, and its [building] is not a one-to-two-month issue. But now I'm asking about Finland and the labour movement. For some reason, the Prime Minister is working very intensively on this subject, but there is no word anywhere about the Foreign Minister. What's our Foreign Minister doing? Is this not a priority for the Minister of Foreign Affairs? Shouldn't he be dealing with the relationship between the two countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U828	Thank you. First of all, on the platform for the economy [for growth], I note that yes, of course, I agree, it is not a one- or two-month question. It is actually a very strong foundation built for a long time and one part of this foundation has been in order in public finances. Your party likes to say that the Reform Party was in power for 17 years. But in the 17 years that we were in power, a strong foundation has actually been created for our economy, including that we are recovering very quickly. Certainly, the previous government has also made the right decisions; I do not completely question it and do not account for it. As regards the activities of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has dealt with labour migration in Estonia and Finland very intensively. We have had meetings at different levels with our Finnish colleagues, whether they are foreign ministries, internal ministries, health services, social ministries or health ministries. These meetings [have been part of]. I've got a piece of paper here somewhere, basically ten rows of dates that have been met and discussed. Everyone has contributed, everyone has played their part, including the Riigikogu. I think that the Riigikogu's appeal to the Finnish Parliament has been one thing you can do. The President of the Riigikogu has been in contact with the head of the Finnish Parliament. This work has been done at all levels, including by the Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U829	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U830	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable! Speaking of 17 years of power, of course, it is worth saying that during that time Estonia was transferred to the five poorest countries in Europe. It's not an exaggeration, it's a fact, check all possible economic indicators. That's right. But I'm curious about the next thing. Since you are saying here that we have raised excise duties, well, this is a special thought pie, of course, then I will read you a comment about the evening: "At the moment we can get tolls, congestion taxes, car tax and so on with the help of the refs. Congratulations! Other countries live and money is pumped into the economy, but our government raises taxes and cuts. How can some rational government support such a government in the first place? " My question is very simple. What about those taxes? Yesterday, Taavi Aas announced that we would be subjected and subjected to pollution taxes. And all hogs are, of course, always justified by noble goals: greening, CO2 reduction, etc. What's your comment?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U831	Thank you. Perhaps you will be surprised, but as of 1 January 2018, the road user fee will be payable for all trucks over 3.5 tonnes that run on the public road network. So we already have that obligation. There is also a time-based fee in Estonia, which gives the right to use the road for a certain period of time. So that's the road charge. But the scary list you listed isn't true.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U832	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U833	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Prime Minister! I will return to the 800,000 doses that Estonia is planning to give. Yes, helping the weak is undoubtedly good and necessary, but we must also look at our own situation. If we consider that this amount is probably somewhere around EUR 2 million, and we know that tomorrow the rescuers are coming to Stenbock's house to give an opinion on the possible cut [the money allocated to them], which is over a few million, and on possible closures, then I ask you this: did you have a debate in the government to look for potential buyers at this 800000 dose to get that money back into our economy to ease our own bottlenecks?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U834	Thank you. The contract for the procurement of these vaccines has been concluded within the framework of the single procurement procedure of the European Commission, which provides for a clause that they may not be sold. They can be donated, but they can't be sold.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U835	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U836	Thank you. Honourable Prime Minister! The fact that you deny that you are referring to the Reform Party in 2019, you handed over a draft decision that you wished to propose to the Government of the Republic to switch to education in Estonian within a few years, does not nullify reality. By now, you have reached 2035 in the government and [in this case] you are also talking about [only] the "perpetuating" [transition]. Denial does not undo this and this comment, as if it were now widely agreed in 2035, is not true. The Fatherland doesn't agree with that, certainly not, and we haven't agreed on that. But my question comes from your answer to my colleague Merry Aart. You said that the increase in economic growth over the first quarter was due to the adoption of an additional budget. That's how you answered the remote today. The additional budget was adopted on 14 April and entered into force on 18 April. Tell me how it is possible that the additional budget adopted in April had such a powerful and successful impact on the first quarter's economic performance.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U837	Thank you. First of all, you probably didn't listen to all the answers. I replied to Merry Aart that, of course, the economy has been built on solid foundations, and this has been done by a number of governments who have been in office for a long time, including the government of your cursed Reform Party, which was in power for 17 years and built on a solid foundation of the Estonian economy. That, of course, is not entirely in my name. Coming to education in Estonian, I do not deny that we submitted such a draft decision. But we are now in the coalition with the Centre Party, which has completely different views on this issue. That is our compromise. But you had a compromise, too. The same Estonian language development plan had been prepared by your government when you were there, and that is why I say it is a political compromise involving different parties. The transition to education in Estonian must take place gradually, in such a way that no community is harmed. You know this very well, having yourself been in the government a moment ago and having also been behind this development plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U838	Helir-Valdor Seeder has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U839	I'm just saying for the verbatim, I just can't be quiet. This development plan has not been prepared in the previous government, but is a development plan prepared during the previous government in the Ministry of Education, which was not approved by the previous government. Certainly, when officials did something under Mailis Reps somewhere, it cannot be compared to what was prepared in the previous government. No, the previous government did not send this development plan to Parliament, it did not approve it. This is a very important clarification so that we do not mislead the public.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U840	That's right. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U841	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I'm asking about tax truce and land tax. I understand this is still a peacekeeping operation. But is the land tax itself a deterrent or a guerrilla activity?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U842	Thank you. A land tax is a land tax. I don't understand your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U843	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U844	Thank you. Paragraph 65 (4) of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia states that the Riigikogu ratifies and denounces foreign treaties. Thus, in essence, a member of the Riigikogu has the right of access to all kinds of foreign contracts in order to obtain the information necessary for his work. I have spent six months trying to get information from your government about the conditional vaccine agreement: what it contains, what conditions are there, etc. Absolutely all officials respond to the fact that it is classified, we must not say that, as stipulated in the terms of the contract. It's a deep state! Let it be said that we do not have a deep state! Officials know, but members of the Riigikogu cannot know. Please state the reasons for which the right to prohibit the submission of contracts to members of the Riigikogu is prohibited.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U845	Thank you. I will return to my recommendation to go back to the University of Tartu for legal education. I suggest you clarify the difference between an external agreement and a normal agreement. What the Constitution talks about is foreign treaties. There are also purchase and sale contracts that are not external contracts, even if they are concluded with foreign companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U846	Kalle Grünthal has a procedure, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U847	Yeah, procedural. This is another example of Kaja Kallas' response style, and it needs to be noted for the protocol. It's not your place to comment on my education. I may also have kindergarten education, one-class education, none of your business. It's up to you to answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U848	Yeah, that's how the member of the Riigikogu asks a question in case of mistrust, and the distrustful minister gives an answer. Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U849	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. My question is as follows. In the police system, the retirement period for police officers starts at 55 years of age. If a person is forced to leave for health reasons or because of cutbacks at some point before he or she reaches the age of 55, he or she will be deprived of his or her pension. How do you plan to solve this problem, or do you not care?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U850	Thank you. I don't know how to answer such a detailed question right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U851	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U852	Thank you. The Reform Party has been in power for a long time and, despite this, the construction of our roads, I mean the four-line roads to Narva, Tartu and Pärnu, have not progressed in any way. And now that the previous government has taken the course to get involved, invest in it, one of the first steps of your government was to bring it to an end. Do you ever intend to contribute to our infrastructure, or do we hope that this way, cent by cent and kilometer by kilometer, will be done at any time, and perhaps in a hundred years' time, we can proudly say that we really do have a great way to go where they are supposed to go?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U853	Thank you. We will invest, as I said, EUR 8 billion in the Estonian economy over the next four years. And as for one of the sections that you planned to do as a PPP project, we ordered an analysis of this and it turned out that as a PPP project, it would cost EUR 90 million more than if the State were to do it either on its own resources or on the basis of a loan. That is why we have decided that, since EUR 90 million is quite a large sum, it is reasonable to save this money and do something else for it. We're gonna do this section, but we're just gonna make it cheaper. As far as infrastructure investments are concerned, one of the main problems is that there have been no projects that could be built up for the money we have. And one more thing I'm gonna have to take care of. Quickly, I tried to watch. Helir-Valdor Seeder said that they did not agree with this development plan for Estonian. But it has been said here that at the meeting of the Cabinet of 29 October 2020 the government decided to approve all draft development plans of the Ministry of Education and Research and to send them to the Riigikogu for discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U854	Igor Kravtšenko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U855	Good manager! Prime Minister! A few days ago, you met your Baltic colleagues, a Latvian and Lithuanian colleague. Today, I think this issue is already behind us, but I am still asking: have you also discussed the subject of the Baltic bubble?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U856	Thank you. Yes, this issue has come up, but right now everyone's goal is not to restrict free movement at all because the figures are so low. The European Commission has also made recommendations on the basis of which action should be taken so that people can move freely throughout Europe, not only in the Baltic States.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U857	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U858	Good manager! Prime Minister! There has been constant talk here today about taxes and tax truce. You're saying no taxes will be raised. But when we look at the draft laws handed over to the Riigikogu, we see that several draft laws amending the Income Tax Act have been passed over. Most recently, a draft Land Tax Act was handed over, which literally means a very clear tax increase for both people and businesses, in particular farmers and forestry companies, private forest owners and farmers. This is not a disgrace at all, but [in this case] it should not simply be constantly argued that no tax increase is planned when, in the same week, the government is handing over a bill that states very clearly the tax increase. We are not talking today about whether raising land tax, which has not been done for a long time, is the right decision or not. But I don't think it's necessary to tell you from morning to night that all taxes remain the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U859	Thank you. First of all, I don't know if it's true that it's your birthday. If that's true, congratulations!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U860	It's Erki Savisaar's birthday.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U861	Got it. Someone just said it was Aivar Koka's birthday.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U862	They said it was a birthday for the Chairman of the Monetary Commission. Aivar Kokk is the former chairman.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U863	Got it. It's a birthday for the current chairman of the Monetary Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U864	Yeah!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U865	Then congratulations to the current Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I come back to your question. We do not change the rates, they remain the same. This bill, which was also discussed in your government and which has been repeatedly discussed, concerns the basis for land valuation. The basis for land valuation has not been changed for a long time, as you yourself said, and this has been a problem for local authorities. This draft Land Tax Act contains clear limits that [tax increases may not be exceeded], but we will not change tax rates. Tax truce concerns the law on changes in tax rates.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U866	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U867	Madam Prime Minister! As far as the budget, the national budget strategy and the cuts are concerned, we have quite often heard in this Chamber that the members of the Centre Party are critical on this issue. However, if the economic forecast for August is expected to be positive and the RES can be reviewed again, how sure are you [in the cutbacks]? Is there any possibility that cuts will be removed in the light of the new forecast? And how sure are you that you will not have a strong debate on this in August with the Centre Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U868	Thank you. We have a constant debate with the Centre Party, and I think it's healthy. We are debating decisions and we are finally reaching a compromise. We have a certain budget calendar in place, and we're moving according to that calendar. There is no reason to change this either as a result of the good economic indicators that are currently in place. The next decisions are still scheduled for September to follow up on this budget calendar.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U869	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U870	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I have two questions. Members of the Fatherland Group's Association 'Punk is Bay' cast heads and tails, and a lot fell on me to ask the third-person reform party's priority, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi's favourite question: are you ashamed? And for the sake of the truth, in order for us to get a better percentage of truth, I also have an additional question: is your name Kaja Kallas?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U871	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U872	Which one: Shame or Echo Kallas?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U873	That's funny, isn't it? This is the head of the Riigikogu. Pretty good! What is this question about? I don't know what this is about. All the decisions the government has made, I stand behind them. I'm proud that the government has been able to accomplish so much in a short time. In view of the fact that at the same time there was also a health crisis that we had to resolve alongside all these decisions, no, on the contrary, I am very proud of this government.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U874	The procedure, Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U875	Yeah, thanks! I am forced to protest against what we have just seen the manager do. The manager must have realized that it was bad. It would be good if the manager apologized and corrected his behavior. The fact that the members of the Riigikogu understand in different ways what is polite and what is appropriate in Parliament and whether to be polite at all is on the conscience of the members of the Riigikogu. However, we expect the President of the Riigikogu not to go along with the bullying that we have just seen. I would very much ask the President of the Riigikogu not to afford such intermediate remarks.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U876	Indrek Saar has not been here throughout the discussion. Members of the Riigikogu have repeatedly been complaining that they are not getting any answers. I pointed out that the answer was also one that was difficult to understand. Mart Helme, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U877	I urge the members of our esteemed Social Democratic Group to be fair from all points of view. For example, if the respondent abusively and derogatoryly draws attention to the level of education of a member of the public, you might also ask the manager to call on the respondent to order. We're starting to feel the same way about everyone, but not like we're making a discount for some people, but we're not doing it to others. Such a procedural remark was needed in the minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U878	Oh, yeah! Toomas Kivimägi, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U879	Thank you, Mr President, good Martin. I respect you. But the way you reacted to that question and commented on it was extremely rude. As a gentleman, I'd apologize. I hope you do, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U880	Indrek Island also has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U881	Yeah, thanks! Mart Helme, Member of the Riigikogu! I really wasn't in the hall when that comment was made. [If I had been here] you could have at least seen from my face that I do not think that a member of the government has the dignity to draw attention to what he thinks about the education of one or another member of the Riigikogu. I absolutely agree with that. But I was not in the Chamber at that point, and even if I had been in the Chamber, it would still have been the responsibility of the manager to draw attention to what is correct about the Riigikogu and what is not. At the moment, I drew attention to what I think does not coincide with this parliamentary practice, according to which we assume that the President of the sitting of the Riigikogu is a so-called balancing force in this Chamber and calls both sides to order.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U882	Kert Kingo, procedural.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U883	Thank you. Mr President, Members of the Chamber. I would very much like to believe that standards are the same for everyone in this Chamber, regardless of time and place. I would remind the Socialists and Reform Party about what happened here when the EKRE Minister was mistrusted, and I would like to compare it with what is happening today. In this sense, it is really very hypocritical to start talking about some kind of ethics for people who have never been able to behave properly and politely before here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U884	Mart Helme, procedural.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U885	I basically want to say the same thing Kert Kingo said that meters must be the same for everyone. It's not like you have to call that damn EKRE all the time. No one, no reform party, no social democrats, no one else, has any moral pedestal to moralize us. You've done exactly the same in this hall, sometimes naughty, noisy, blaming, personal. So let's put an end to this hypocritical wailing. And it's totally inappropriate to talk about gentlemenhood here because we don't have any genders. We have a social structure, as the Social Democrats have long made clear to us, which is why we have no reason to talk about gentlemenhood here. We are talking about collegiality or whether we are given adequate answers or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U886	As you can see, if we go on like this for a long time, we're gonna lose our waitress. There's a procedural question on Tarmo Kruus Hill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U887	Thank you! I want to give my own answer to this procedure: don't turn the fight now, I got the answer, and it was extremely important to me. I won a box of non-alcoholic beer with a bet.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U888	Riina Sikkut, procedural.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U889	Thank you. I fully agree that everyone in this Chamber should be treated equally. If the President considers it necessary to assess the quality of the answers, questions of a similar nature could also be passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U890	Let's continue. Indrek Saar, procedural.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U891	As Mart Helme turned to the Social Democrats, I assure you that I am far from being able to start reading morality to the EKRE members. However, I drew attention to the conduct of the manager.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U892	Okay, we're done with this. Aivar Kokal is a question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U893	Good manager! Prime Minister, thank you for your answer to the previous question. You said no taxes. As far as I know, the Minister for Economic Affairs in Taavi Aa is in the present coalition. When I read last night's Delfi, I see that it is written very clearly that the government is planning a congestion tax, a pollution tax and a road tax, there were some other things. How should we view it? Maybe you can tactically explain that these aren't taxes, either? So, what are these things? Or is it that they are planned to be introduced not next year, but the year after next, or even 15 years? Have these taxes been discussed with you in the government, too, or were they just thoughts of the Minister of Economic Affairs somewhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U894	The list you read out was the list of your own party partner, Urmas Reinsalu, which unfortunately is not true. Such taxes are not intended to be imposed. The transport development plan refers, for example, to road user charges, but as I have already said, road user charges will apply to us from 2018. So no, this [list] is not true.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U895	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U896	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister! You have declared in the coalition agreement that as one of the important priority actions you will see that this government union should stand for less economic, social and regional inequality in Estonia. Was it genuinely your wish, or has the Centre Party written it in, and you are not really going to be guided by it? If, for example, we look at the budgetary strategy of the country you have put forward, we will see that the inequality is increasing. A cut in interest activities is an example of this. This [grant] is intended precisely to balance the unequal opportunities of children at least a little. So far, it has worked very well. Do you think this [imbalance-reduction plan] is an empty declaration, or are you planning any activities that would embodi it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U897	Thank you. Of course, we are planning activities that will fill it, but I also want to say that local authorities will receive more money, EUR 30 + 16 million. That's more than $7 million. As regards children's education of interest, it is the responsibility of the local government to organise an education of interest for children; it is up to the local government to do so. This money has been used very differently; it has not always gone to children. Tallinn is a good example. He receives the largest share of the money for an interest education (more than 1 million euros is the amount they receive), yet 20,000 children are studying in private interest schools and 10,000 children in municipal interest schools. But this money goes, not where the children are, but where the local government considers it more appropriate. We're having a local election. If this is a concern that matters to people, then it must also be voiced in local elections so that local authorities know how to move forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U898	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U899	Thank you. Prime Minister! When the current government came to power, you allowed political corruption to be the first thing and you promised that the drafts that will be [on this subject] would be supported in some way. But I haven't seen it yet. We have not seen in any way that the current government has a desire to tackle corruption in substance. Is this going to be the case, or do you have any specific plans? I'm afraid we haven't noticed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U900	Thank you. If you haven't noticed, you have to talk again. First of all, one of the first things we have adopted is a law, according to which ministers' advisers must now also make a declaration of economic interests. This is necessary to prevent such Porto Franco-style cases. Secondly, all the GRECO recommendations that were up, we adopted, we took the appropriate steps. [Some] are still in the pipe, but we have only been in the government for four months and have done so during the health crisis, so not everything has yet arrived. But I have to say, a hundred days' plan was still a good 80%. What else is in the pipe? The plan is to complement the law of the Political Financing Monitoring Commission so that the Political Financing Monitoring Commission is given more strength. It is also planned to review the Government of the Republic Act in this key to reduce the risk of corruption. So these are the things that will come. But GRECO's recommendations have been quite long and thorough. They have not only touched on the laws, but in fact also on the real models of action that are being changed in ministries, so that everything is more transparent and less corruption.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U901	Aivar Kokal is a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U902	Good manager! I just have to make it clear and remind the Prime Minister that yesterday's Eesti Päevaleht published an article entitled "Taavi Aas pushes climate reform in transport: pollution and the use of tea should be paid for." It says here that the government approved the development plan. This includes the transport sector and all these other points. I'm just pointing out for the record that it's not quite the case that no one has said anything and that it's the story of our people, Urmas or anyone else. In that case, the Estonian Päevaleht is lying, but such an article is there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U903	I can answer that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U904	Yeah, if you want, you can answer that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U905	The development plan has been drawn up until 2030, if I remember correctly. I don't have it with me right now. The fact that there is a set user-pays- principle is reasonable. We know where climate policy is going and where environmental policy is going. But on your question, you kind of tie the two things together and say that our government is imposing some kind of tax. It's not true, there will be no such taxes in this two years.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U906	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U907	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I would like to talk about the salaries of the police, the rescuers, the nurses and the teachers. You said yes, they're rising. But unfortunately, they rise at the cost of the children being taken away from interest education money or some commando being shut down. And actually, the wage increase you've been planning is most likely to fall short of inflation. There is a solution for repaying loans that is fair to everyone: this money is found in such a way that all Estonian people contribute to repaying loans. But today, if you cut and do not raise the necessary numbers of public employees, that means that it is they who are paying off these loans, and that is unfair. My question to you is this: why is the choice that only public employees are being cut off so that they can repay loans, not tell all Estonian people, perhaps businesses, through whatever system, to contribute to repaying loans?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U908	Thank you. It must be repeated how revenue from the state budget is generated. They come from taxes. Payments are also paid by companies and employees operating in the private sector. Of course, taxes are also paid on people on government payroll, but this is an increase in money from one pocket to another. Taxpayer money comes from the private sector in many ways. You're asking why only state earners suffer. I can't stand it! In fact, it was the private sector that was hit in the crisis, and businesses were forced to tighten up. The tourism sector has shrunk almost to nothing; the people there lost their jobs not only lost their jobs but lost their jobs. If the public sector is not willing to save any expense, it will come at the expense of the taxpayers. The private sector has no choice. If you don't have the money and the turnover goes down, nobody's gonna ask you if you want to save. You just have to stick together. It is therefore not fair for the public sector to say that we are not willing to review anything. There are a number of places where the state provides services in different institutions, which from a people's point of view are like one. In my opinion, this crisis is an opportunity to make the reforms that have not been carried out for a long time, including the reform of the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U909	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U910	To begin with, a small comment is that what kind of turnover is falling on the state. Tax receipts are increasing, there is a demand for public sector support in the event of a crisis, and credit facilities are available. This parallel with the private sector cannot be drawn. Secondly, I am surprised at your surprise at the beginning of your speech that we have a one billion euro phantom cut. I thought we knew that. The poor RES of the previous government is no surprise. We discussed this in this Chamber, in committees and in the media. It's not something that puts the government in an unexpected position. I'm gonna ask you about the loss of hobby education, too. Loksa's child receives 22 times more interest education support than Keila's child and Setomaa's child receives 14 times more than Tallinn's child because it is a regionally balanced measure. By cutting down on such a measure, Setomaa has to work 14 times more than Tallinn and Loksa 22 times more than Keila to offer her child an interest. In other words, the regionally balancing measure cut will amplify inequality, countering the objective. This is an exceptionally stupid decision. What is the justification for deepening regional imbalances and making the first cut in children's account?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U911	Thank you. Of course, we knew the state budget was in bad shape. That's what we knew. But we didn't know it was so bad. It was, however, a surprise and, in any case, an unpleasant surprise. Your comment on the comparison between the state budget and the company's budget. State expenditure has increased by 47% over the last four years. The revenue has not come back, the costs will in any case be set aside. We have borrowed more than ever, over EUR 2.58 billion, and we will take more to cover the costs. Many costs have also been incurred in times of crisis, which is perfectly understandable. But, unfortunately, [too much] money has been spent in the past, and it is simply not possible to go beyond that. As far as recreational education is concerned, the Ministry of Education and Research has said that support for recreational education must be better targeted. However, what you said about the fact that a child in Tallinn does not need it as much as a child in a municipality with fewer opportunities is all true.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U912	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U913	Thank you. But proportionally, because of this cut, it is precisely these outlying parishes that will lose more, that was the point of the question of the pre-questioner. Of course, when we talk about a poor budget situation, we cannot miss the cost of the coronal chaos caused by your government, with an additional budget of over EUR 700 million. The phantom cuts of the previous government were not beautiful public finances, but let us not forget the health policy decisions of this government and their impact on the Estonian state budget. Maybe it shouldn't be so bravuric to talk about this subject, given what's been going on in the last four and a half months. When it comes to public sector cuts, these simply idle officials must, of course, be gathered, but mostly the question is that we are cutting down on public services. For example, the same unemployed person in the private sector, now you take away the opportunity to get an education from him, taking away the salary increase from his teacher. In what way will this take Estonia forward?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U914	Thank you. From labour market measures, first of all, we had exactly the kind of measures in the crisis to keep people at work and on the payroll. Secondly, it was possible to apply for unemployment benefit. The plan is to better link this to the labour market situation when the unemployment rate is high, the benefits could be longer and higher, and if the unemployment rate is low, this should also be taken into account. Just so people can still get help. In the case of public services, however, the point is that it does not matter from a person's point of view or it should not matter where he receives one or the other service and in what form he receives that service, but it is important that he receives that service. For example, if the Ministry of the Interior and the Department of Defense are doing the same thing, why not do it in one place? For example, we have EAS and foreign diplomacy [büroo], why do they have to be in different places? No one understands why it should be so. Let's point them at one place. We have EAS and KredEx, which actually do the same things, we can put them together. From a person's or a business's point of view, it is an important service that he receives, not that these organisations have more.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U915	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U916	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I just have a request. The previous prime ministers have always mentioned this list of beneficiaries of the salary increase, even in the case of a small 3% increase, not only teachers, rescuers, policemen and medical staff, but also social workers. I have never heard you name social workers on this list. This has led to me asking Signe Riisalo, the Minister for Social Protection, if really social workers would be excluded this time. I learned that they are not outside, but they have not been highlighted in this list and they have addressed [my] question. My question is, however, surprise-surprisingly, still an education of interest. You said very nicely that it should be better targeted. Agreed. But instead of taking away the EUR 7 million, we could have better set goals and conditions. The city of Viljandi is not a problem to find some EUR 30000, but it is a problem to find EUR 140000 for the municipality of Viljandi.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U917	Firstly, yes, social workers are also included in this list. It's the usual list, all these agencies go together. So, yes, social workers are also among them. As far as better targeting is concerned, it is the Ministry of Education and Research. I believe that the Ministry is aware of all the concerns about the livelihood of the various rural municipalities, as well as the number of children in one place or another who need help. However, I would like to stress once again that local authorities are still getting more money to make these decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U918	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U919	Thank you. Prime Minister! The talk of targeting money is, of course, very interesting, especially in a situation where municipalities are actually losing money. We also know very clearly the average wage differences between rural areas. But if you have to save, you have to save. I will ask you a question in the context of the transport development plan. I clearly remember that the Reform Party was very critical of free transport, i.e. fully subsidised public transport. This was also about targeting and how the service should be made more accessible to people in rural areas. But actually, they worked very hard for the big cities. Did the transport development plan provide an opportunity to discuss changes to the current organisation of public transport? If so, are there plans to do anything about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U920	Thank you. In coalition negotiations, of course, we talked about this, including free public transport. This is, of course, very important to our coalition partner. We have reached a compromise, so that public transport centres have the right to choose how they use this money. Whether they use this subsidy to organise free public transport or to design a better network of routes is up to the local authorities themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U921	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U922	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Unlike the EKRE, the claims of the Socialists are very substantive for your government. Our criticisms primarily concern these foolish and inequality-enhancing budget cuts. A rather bad symbol of these cuts has undoubtedly become a completely unjustified reduction in support for young people's interest education, which clearly increases the inequality of families with children as well as regional inequalities. The worst and most foolish thing is, of course, that the cut in the education of interest is justified by the need to find money to raise teachers' salaries. We know that the economy is currently booming and more money is coming into the budget than planned. Good Prime Minister, I am giving you the opportunity to tell the people of Estonia today that you will not make these inequality-enhancing cuts and that support for children's recreational education will not be reduced and that teachers will receive a higher wage increase and it will not come at the expense of young children. Please allow this to the people of Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U923	Thank you. First of all, I have already said several times that there is a budget calendar in Estonia that we are moving to, and we will make such decisions next September. That's one. Secondly, local government revenue will increase by 250 million euros in the next four years. The amount of money granted by the state to support education in the field of recreation is EUR 7 million, which is a smaller amount. In short, I'm sticking to the fact that we're moving on an existing schedule. What this whole process has taught us is that it's very easy to borrow a billion, but it's very hard to save a million. That's exactly what it is. If the answer is that we are not trying to get the costs under control, then we must also have the answer to what revenue we are using to cover these costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U924	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U925	Thank you. These answers raise a lot of questions. If local government revenues increase by 250 million euros and they have to be able to find 7 million out of it, how does the state not find this 7 million on its billion? Do we have local authorities that are much more capable than the state? If today the child of Setomaa receives 14 times more support than the child of Tallinn and is cut, Setomaa must make 14 times more effort for each child to ensure the same level of education of interest. Speaking of better targeting: did your proposal in the coalition with the Centre Party really mean that Tallinn should be withdrawn from interest education and directed to Setomaa? In answering Mr Ossinovski's question, you said that if unemployment were to increase, the period of unemployment benefit should be longer. I totally agree. Estonia has targeted countercyclical policies, which means that if the private sector consolidates and cuts, the state will have to increase its costs in order to balance the situation in the interests of people's livelihood. Being in solidarity with the private sector cannot be an argument for making cuts, although it may be a cooling-out of overheating or something else, but the argument for solidarity is not a problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U926	I think it's very good. I mean, we're acting countercyclically right now. The private sector suffered during this crisis, but the public sector did not suffer. Now that the private sector is recovering today Eesti Pank's economic forecast also says that employees will be taken up, companies will look to the future more optimisticly, it is logical that the state must act countercyclically. In many respects, this need is also due to the fact that costs have increased beyond revenue. Costs have increased by 47% over the last five years.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U927	Riina Sikkut has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U928	... an interest education teacher's salary or allowances. The economy is likely to be heated by real estate investments or by hundreds of millions going to an oil plant. Then it is a question of whether decisions to implement reverse policies...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U929	Riina, the others at least pretend to have a procedural remark. You're already negotiating. The Anti Polish Forest has a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U930	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! According to my information, the current government does not intend to limit labour migration. How much do you expect this year to be the number of short-term workers coming from third countries? Do you have any idea at the same time how many jobseekers we have?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U931	Thank you. I'll see if I have any materials on it, but I don't think I do. I don't know what to say, I wouldn't be shooting off my hip like that right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U932	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U933	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I have a question about the fact that you have stressed on several occasions that local authorities have certain responsibilities. That's it. I know 20 years working in the municipality. The municipality has a lot of responsibilities and is often added without any money being provided. Obviously, some obligations are already those that the state supports today, such as education, road maintenance and something else. The state has decided to put some support into it. Is there a plan or is it already known what kind of money you're taking away from local governments, putting pressure on the law that it's your responsibility to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U934	Thank you. Local authorities will receive EUR 250 million in the next four years.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U935	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U936	We have heard on several occasions that local authorities are receiving EUR 250 million. But is it not that this is the income base of local governments? It is not a kind gift from the state, but is due, among other things, to the fact that local authorities do good work, local communities do good work, both entrepreneurs and the public sector do good work? Isn't that why the prognosis isn't positive? The country's revenue should increase even more, as far as I know. If you are now talking about this EUR 36 million, I think that was the amount that will be given to local authorities next year as extra money, then this is, as far as I know, a crisis measure and a one-off. The children's activities are not one-off, and they cannot go into the activities within one year. How does it fit into your otherwise introduced principle that investment money should not be eaten and operating expenses should be stalled? You are actually cutting off one of their fixed costs from local governments and giving them crisis money to relieve them for a moment. Don't you see a contradiction here?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U937	Thank you. The revenue of local governments is expected to increase by 30 + 16 million euros next year. Of which 30 million is in I don't have the RES right now, so if I say anything by memory, it might not be the correct answer. But basically the income of local governments is increasing, and if supporting the education of interest is important for them, they can certainly do so. If anyone has any ideas about better organisation of recreational education, then the Minister of Education and Research will certainly listen to them how to make sure that we do not have regional inequalities and that there is support for the kind of recreational education that may need additional resources. These proposals will certainly be listened to and taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U938	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U939	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! I'll help you with the statistics and the prognosis. If the current system continues, the arrival of several tens of thousands of short-term workers is expected from third countries. But at the same time, we have 51000 jobseekers and fewer than 7,000 vacancies. Is this adequate and fair to these jobseekers, especially during the corona crisis, when finding a job is much, much harder than usual? How can this be resolved?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U940	Thank you. You can't force anyone to do a job he doesn't want to do. We have labour shortages in some areas, unemployment. Labour market benefits or unemployment benefits should also be linked to whether there is labour shortages or unemployment in the sector where you have lost your job. They should be linked. But yes, [someone] can't make it. If there are jobs in one area, such as the IT sector, this does not mean that people in any sector can go to work there. We also saw last year in agriculture how it was very difficult to find a workforce in Estonia for certain jobs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U941	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U942	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! I'm worried about taxes. Why? First of all, I ask, what pain did you take from the Centre Party that they agreed to give up the extension of the excise cuts and to take away the money from the pockets of the weakest, least earning Estonian people? What pain did you take to the Centre Party that they agreed not to prolong the excise cuts that the previous government did? I understand the fuel excise is rising. Looking at the media, you're also planning to increase your alcohol excise duty. It is likely that the car tax will come from the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications and the road tax. Maybe I'm wrong about the name, but why do you tend to attack the pockets of the Estonian people? Why did you... Jürgen, don't interrupt! Why are you taking the weakest hands?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U943	Thank you. In the case of excise duties, it was your government's decision to make them with a sunset clause. What does that mean? This means that you agreed that excise duties would rise back to the level where they were before the crisis by 2022. It was your decision. We don't raise them. You raised them, and they just rise with the deadline of 2022. There's no car tax, I've already said there's no plan. You are bound together by [the Coalition Agreement] by a transport development plan that has been drawn up for a long time and which sets out a number of alternatives that can and could be done. But who knows who's in the government at the time and what decisions anyone's gonna make?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U944	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U945	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! You are talking about this sunset clause, I am absolutely convinced that if the previous coalition were to be delivered today, excise duties would remain at an earlier level. The current sunrise government, on the contrary, raises excise duties. The Reform Party has been largely a better party than others, one might say that the first Estonian party. For you, rural areas have always been of extraordinari importance, rather such a tedious problem to deal with. I understand that it is nice for the elite to be and live even if the people who work are replaced by workers from Ukraine, immigrants from Nigeria and Pakistan. It's not a problem for the elite, they can still get in their towers, and the mass that works is there. I want to know from you why you don't contribute to rural areas, to the periphery. Today, the COVID crisis has a large number of people moving to Estonia's rural areas, but they have major problems because banks do not grant loans outside Harjumaa [for delivery] and so we cannot repopulation the outermost regions. Those who have been driving around South Estonia have seen that in almost every farm, the tare, there is smoke coming from the chimney again and the children are running on the village street. At the moment, we need to channel money to the rural area. Why don't you?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U946	Thank you. First of all, your plan was to increase excise duty even when growth is 2%. That is what your Chairman of the Monetary Commission of the Coalition said, he said that if economic growth is at least 2%, you will gradually increase excise duties. At present, growth is 5.4% and we are certainly not going to increase excise duty. It will be as you said yourself, this sunset clause, which is your decision to increase excise duty, will remain in force. As far as rural areas are concerned, I very much agree with you that COVID's time has led to more people entering rural areas. We know that there are difficulties in accessing capital both for families who want to acquire their own homes and for companies who find it harder to obtain loans there to further develop their own business. That is why we have been discussing in the government programmes to support families moving to the country to overcome the market failure, and also, in the case of businesses, to overcome the market failure. But for this, the resources of the Rural Promotion Foundation should be used, not to share the money in nepotism. These are the instruments that are intended for this, and they must be used in this way. So these are the programs we're planning.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U947	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U948	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister, thank you very much for this positive vision. I fully agree with the issue of the transfer of the external representatives of the EAS under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I think there could be a cross-party consensus for this, and this could be done during this year. Now, on the subject of speaking and hypocrisy. What I want to say is that the coalition agreement of the government, to which Parliament gave a mandate, stated that we would continue to finance the defence plans so far. Unfortunately, this did not happen, but in national defence, this rhetoric has been replaced by words that are among others and acts that are different. There is, of course, a reduction, a longer period of defensive power, and what it means has been assessed in his expert analysis by the Commander of the Defence Forces here on 23 March. Here's my question. Madam Prime Minister, will the government refrain from cutting defence costs? It has also been a central incentive for the Fatherland, a desire to put pressure on the government with a major political protest, as Parliament currently has, to abandon it. There is no need to put your back on Estonian national defence. And what pertains to these heavy claims about the previous government, I say to you, is an objective argument. [[The President asks the speaker to conclude several times, as the time allowed for the question has expired.]] I wrote a book, tomorrow at 11 o'clock it will be introduced to the Riigikogu, and it will contain everything that happened during the previous government and much that unfortunately did not happen in reality. This is a fact that needs to be taken into account. (There will be more noise in the hall.)
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U949	Quiet in the hall, please! Let the Prime Minister respond! Quiet in the hall, please! Before we answer, we have a procedural question. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U950	I would like to address directly to the respected distrustful, because we have a round of questions that is basically going through, I see that one more question appeared, and ask him a question. Since he has so much grounded here today and so much distorted information has been passed on to us in his answers, whether or not he would accept our group's members, but perhaps also the members of the Isamaa Group would like to join, the delegation's season will end, we will have no more sessions, and we will talk about these things straightening out, both this billion-dollar hole, the raising of taxes and the cost of defence. We could sit together and he'd take his advisors aside, sit down for a couple of or three hours and talk these things out, so that we don't go back in the fall to the same kind of blurring, wrestling, manipulating half-sisters and lies. What if the Prime Minister thinks about it and arranges a meeting like this at Stenbock's house?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U951	This, of course, was not a procedural question. First of all, the Prime Minister should answer Urmas Reinsalu's question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U952	Thank you. Did I understand that the book presentation was supposed to be today? [[In the diner.]] Such little advertising minutes for the Urmas Reinsalu book. I wish you strength at the book presentation! Defence costs will rise from EUR 645 million to EUR 709 million next year. It has already been said repeatedly that defence costs will never fall below 2%. We have fulfilled our obligations and will continue to do so. Defence costs, 2% plus defence investments and allies' maintenance costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U953	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U954	I take this opportunity to add a slightly brighter tone to this somewhat evil discussion. I wanted to ask whether, during the current government, pushing the question of the previous Foreign Minister, the excellent tradition that Urmas Reinsalu initiated has continued that the Foreign Minister personally goes to the masks and other personal protective equipment at the airport. I haven't read Urmas Reinsalu's book yet, maybe he went to pick up clothes and macaroni coming from H&M or China or something. Does Mrs. Liimets still go to the airport, wearing a vest, and pick up those planes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U955	No, Mrs Liimets does not go for Chinese macaroni or the other things you mentioned. Urmas Reinsalu came and, of course, his hat off, that he had so much time to do all this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U956	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U957	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! In fact, the only thing that prompted me to ask was that Urmas Reinsalu started advertising his book. Since I've already been able to patch his book, I thought I'd ask. With regard to the same cuts, Urmas, in his book, says how he wanted to be cut, but no one else did, and Martin Helme reluctantly came with some cuts... Ants Laaneots, don't interrupt, please! [Martin,] Give me some time! Kaja Kallas can't listen to a question if you're there to explain... So, Urmas really wanted to cut it, but nobody else did. Finally, Martin was reluctant to come with some cuts that included cuts in defence costs, only these. On that, of course... Jurgen too! ... Of course, all the cuts were withdrawn and it was agreed that we would cut some economic costs, some 2% for all ministries, and finally this cut in economic costs was thrown into the IT costs of all ministries. Thus, the whole cut was that all ministries had to cut their IT costs by 2% and it became a big cut. How can you, good Prime Minister, comment on such a thing? I read it in the book of Urmas Reinsalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U958	Thank you. Yes, it is true that the Fatherland has stood for an additional budget of EUR 50 million to be saved. In fact, they have made such an amendment that, if EUR 645 or EUR 642 million were an additional budget, 50 million of which were proposed cuts. These plans were supposedly, yes, bigger, but I'm sure you'll have to read what the gentlemen write themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U959	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U960	Of course, it says the information. The question is that neither we have challenged the state's savings. The review of the state budget, which you essentially gave up in full, was supposed to serve this purpose. We know that perfectly well. The question is that there is no point in making stupid cuts, especially those that are harmful to our security. I'm telling you the truth, I don't understand what's going on here. The Ministry of Defence is sending out an official statement that I have it, that over the next four years, EUR 70 million will have to be saved from defence capabilities, and now you, Madam Prime Minister, are saying that, compared to the plans that have been made so far, there will be more money. That's not true! The reality is that we are being timed for the development of our great abilities. 270 people get fired. This is the reality that we see happening. As far as external relations are concerned, in the case of external relations,... (The voice in the Chamber: "Question!") ... question that... (Voice in the hall: "Time!") ... The provocator's in our hall. Give me more time, like the good Valdo says. However, in the case of external relations, we can say that these problems, which have also been caused by cuts, were to be addressed by the Polish Minister for Defence... to the government of our country with a letter of protest that we in Georgia have gone to abolish the attaché. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I have to admit, they certainly don't respond...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U961	Time, Urmas!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U962	... Estonia's foreign policy interests and is not in line with the rhetoric that you promised...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U963	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U964	...we're next to the allies. Something wrong with doing it, but the words are true. Let us make sure that words and deeds coincide.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U965	There's a minute, please, let's stick to this. We don't have a lot of questions anymore. Please hold on to the minute. Please, Echo!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U966	Thank you. So that the words and actions [ coincide]. This talk about the state budget review was a bluff. It was pure bluff! That's what the Minister of Finance has admitted, so maybe that's not a good thing for you to say. You know damn well it was a bluff. And as far as defence costs are concerned, it is still the case that when the economy grows, defence costs also increase. This 2% is linked to the economy's success, and as an absolute number, defence costs are bound to increase. We are keeping the commitments we have made, and there should be no reproach in this regard.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U967	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U968	Good Prime Minister! I understand your answer that it is very reasonable for your government to have the money for teachers to raise their salaries at the expense of children's and young people's education of interest. This is definitely where we're in very different positions from the weather. Estonian school and Estonian education are actually in a very deep crisis; we have a very serious shortage of teachers. In order to get good teachers motivated by young people at Estonian school, the state must keep its promises and finally raise the average wage of teachers to 120% compared to the average wage of the Estonian state. Today's government clearly has not kept this promise; the scissors between teachers and the average wage in the country are constantly increasing. When does your government intend to deliver on a promise to teachers to come out of this crisis? Or if you do not fulfill that promise, how will we find new teachers at the school? How?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U969	Thank you. This is a very serious problem, especially for science teachers. Therefore, one side of [the problem] is how to motivate teachers. I very much agree with you that teachers' salaries must rise. There was no increase in teachers' salaries in the previous country's budget strategy, but from now on it is. Yeah, I admit it's small, we're looking for ways to make it bigger. But I do not agree with the argument that this raise can be made at the expense of young people. Once again, this is not children's money, it is the local government money you are talking about, the specific targeted money. The local government gets more money that is free and without a label.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U970	No further questions for the Prime Minister, he can sit in the government box. In the meantime, I'll handle the procedural issues. Urmas Reinsalu is a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U971	Thank you, Mr President. I think that answering this question will benefit from your prior competence in the position of Minister of Finance. What is our situation when, on the one hand, it is claimed that we are keeping the commitments we have made and, on the other hand, the defence plans are being curtailed? Are there obligations that have been entered into? I would ask for a linguistic interpretation as a procedure so that those expressing mistrust can assess the textual meaning of this word. Similarly, when we are talking about whether savings will take place, it must be said that the budget control number for next year is over 13 billion, which is EUR 500 million more than the basic budget for this year. [[There's a debate in the hall.]] In fact, this means that the government intends to build the largest log building in the European Union, the office building of the Ministry of the Environment, for the money cut off from national defence costs. Are we going to protect the Estonian state with the office building? I have a suggestion that if we do not have clarity on this issue, it will be very difficult to make a decision to support this government. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U972	Urmas, unfortunately, I must agree with my colleagues here who are calling out that this is not a procedural issue, but we are slipping into negotiations. But let's get to the negotiations. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, only the representatives of the political groups have the right to speak in the negotiations. In the first instance, the political groups or the representatives of the political groups whose members are the initiators of distrust shall take the floor. First, I'd like Henn Põllamaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U973	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U974	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U975	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Distrust is a very serious act. Yes, we know that the previous opposition, today's party of power, made it some kind of public sport, practically every week someone was distrusted. It became quite comicical how a request for censure for a minister was submitted to the following, only the name was changed. Today's opposition hasn't come up with such a thing. We have been patient, we have hoped that the situation will improve, that the government will come to its senses and act rationally in the interests of Estonia. But unfortunately, we haven't seen it. Things have gotten worse. We have thus been forced to initiate a vote of distrust for the Minister of Defence and also for the Prime Minister, the reasons being overlapping in both cases. When we look at the Prime Minister's answers to the questions today, we see that they can actually be summarised in three keywords: avoiding questions, confusing and blaming the previous government. We haven't heard much about the substance. Instead of answering questions from members of the Riigikogu, the Prime Minister repeatedly gave us an overview of what is happening at the European Football Championship. What somebody thinks is important is who thinks the country of Estonia, who holds football. Unfortunately, the eight minutes I have been given do not allow me to talk about all the problems and to delve into them, so I will try to mention a few more important points at random in my review. I'm gonna start with immigration. It started in Question Time when the Prime Minister blamed the huge flow of immigration that has hit Estonia, of course, for the previous government and read out the numbers. Indeed, 17,000 and 18,000 and, last year, 16,000 are very large, very frightening numbers. But let us remember that the Reform Party was in power for 17 years before that, which made 18 exceptions to the immigration quota, which is why the number has grown so much today. If we look at the time of ten years ago, we can see that it was only a few thousand. We do not see the slightest desire in the government to draw the line, despite the fact that the number of immigrants has again increased significantly than the number of people who have returned, and the number of people leaving this country is increasing exactly the same. The constitutional principle that the Estonian state must ensure the preservation of the Estonian language, culture and nation is simply over the shoulder or over the fence or I do not know where to throw it. They are again on the cut-off road, which was extremely devastating for the Estonian economy during the previous crisis, triggering huge emigration. Instead of learning from the practice of other countries that, in times of crisis, no cuts are being made, in times of crisis, on the contrary, the economy is being revived, we see how we are being attacked by our defence capabilities, although it is repeatedly being dimmed that this is not being done. However, we all know that, in four years, our planned defence budget will fall to around EUR 100 million and, today, from 2.36%, it will fall to 2.1%. If it's not a cut, what is it? With it, our defenses will fall. We will not be able to fill any power gaps in our defence forces. Who's going to benefit? To this, you all know, there is only one answer: it is only beneficial for Russia. At the same time, internal security is also being curtailed, such as reduced rescue command, reduced response time, and so on. It's all at the expense of our own people. Instead of the permitted anti-corruption action, we see the successive introduction of drafts into the Riigikogu, which essentially build up a police state, not to mention the disproportionate use of force against peaceful demonstrators, against people who protested against the actions of the government, against the establishment of a police state. Let us compare this behavior with that of the May 9th event. This is completely absurd! In addition, of course, all these cuts in the social field, cuts in the money for children's activities, which, in fact, because the local authorities must compensate for it or are forced to compensate for it, reduce the local authorities' budget. 140000 people are hit by the loss of income tax exemption on housing loans, and electricity, gas and diesel excise duties are again being increased. The opposition's proposed draft not to do so was rejected, but it is still everyone else's fault, not today's government. This has been completely pervasive in all the positions of the Prime Minister and, unfortunately, in all the other ministers that we have heard so far: we are not guilty of anything, [the blame is] just the others, only the previous government. But it hasn't been shown to be even a gram better than the other way around. And, of course, their very lame, inadequate action in the corona situation. Unfortunately, I'm making sure my time is up, even though it would be eight hours instead of eight minutes. But indeed, the actions of Kaja Kallas are detrimental to the interests of the Estonian state and the people, all of the activities of his government are detrimental to them. Kaja Kallas is not suitable as Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia. In the light of the foregoing, we are distrustful of Kaja Kallas. Kaja Kallas is not sufficient to be the Prime Minister of Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U976	Before the next speech, we have a procedural question. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U977	Good manager! Here's my procedural question. The honorable congregation and its leaders on my right wing, the chairman of the secret police control committee, the chairman of the state budget control committee, the first vice-president of the Riigikogu and others, are so emotionally heated that it was difficult to hear the story of the leader of our group. That is my modest remark, and in the future, you might want to watch more closely. I understand that the congregation is loud and the blood is reeling, but I might also consider the desire of other members of the congregation to listen to the report.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U978	We are, of course, the great hall of the Riigikogu and these are political groups, but in the meantime, the noise was a bit loud. Let's try to avoid it. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U979	Eight minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U980	Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U981	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, This hall has seen a wide variety of disclosures of mistrust. However, the publication of a mistrust in which not all reproaches fit into one initiative and opposition parties wish to initiate several mistrusts at the same time, that is what I do not remember. It's a sign of government action in itself. The Social Democrats have prepared a motion of distrust, but, as we know, the Home and Working Procedures Act does not allow several [claims] to be presented to one person on the same subject at the same time. That is why we have an initiative today, a motion of distrust. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister did not respond to this motion of censure and did not refer to the content of this item. He probably did not realise that the publication of a mistrust was initiated against the government currently in office, not against the government of the previous government, Jüri Ratas. About 80% of the Prime Minister's presentation spoke of the previous government's actions or omissions and criticisms towards the previous government. But the previous government is no longer in office, for the information of the current Prime Minister. The disclosure of censure to the Prime Minister is always collective, so it is not a matter for the Prime Minister to take it personally. The dissatisfaction of the Isamaa Group is much wider than that of the Prime Minister alone, for example, last week we discussed the mistrust of the Minister of Defence. In fact, there would be reason to discuss the mistrust of some ministers almost every week, because their response to the enquiries that have been made here recently also came here, Minister of Education, but listen to these answers! Listen to these answers! The Minister of Education even very shy and embarrassedly said that today he would no longer make the kind of decisions he has made in this short period of office. What is our main complaint to this government? It's misleading the public, it's wrestling and it's lies. Misleading the public, wrestling and lies in different areas. Today we heard the Prime Minister say that the government promised a tax peace and that a tax peace was guaranteed. Come on, are tax truce guaranteed in a situation where mortgage interest benefits are abolished? This bill is in the Riigikogu. The excise duties are being changed, there has been a major dispute, and the reduced level of excise duties is being raised. This draft, which would maintain the current level of excise duties, was voted down. The Government has also initiated an amendment to the Land Tax Act, which increases land tax rates in times. Where's the tax truce? The talk that came from this remote today was a lie. There's no tax truce. Now from the corona restrictions, from the corona chaos. There has been a great deal of talk on this subject, it cannot be stopped for a long time, but so far the Prime Minister does not recognise that the first decisions of this government, which he calls the harmonisation of [the restrictions], rather than the relaxation, were in fact wrong and had disastrous consequences for the spread of infection. The fact that the government did not impose an emergency situation and found different solutions is also a fraud. In fact, the laws were amended, the Emergency Act was amended so that a number of powers given in emergency situations and the measures to be implemented are now permanent, i.e. we have a semi-permanent emergency situation. So that story wasn't true either. There has been a great deal of talk about defence and security. I'm not gonna be talking about the chaplain service and the orchestra anymore. It is ridiculous that, in a situation where the Prime Minister stresses that defence spending is increasing and gives examples, it is still necessary to cut 270 people, including a large number of active troops and people from the Defence League, to lose the orchestra and kaplan service. In addition, our relations with our allies are under way, [has been planned to abandon] attachés in Georgia and Poland. However, an inquiry has already done some sort of purpose and impact, and today's mistrust has done the same. We learned that the original plan to consolidate a military attaché in Poland has been abandoned. This is very important and I think that, although it is a small step, it is still a sign that the government is ready to withdraw from certain foolish decisions. Whether or not defence spending will be reduced will be questioned. I understand why there are different opinions. Apparently, the government and the Prime Minister are having trouble calculating the percentage. Anyone who compares percentages understands that defence costs are being reduced compared to the approved RES, so all it takes is a percentage calculation. The country's budgetary strategy is notable cuts, be they in the field of recreational education or rescue services, as has been said here. And the same air that was written on the revenue side of the state budget strategy, the sale of the Port of Mine, although it is not really intended to be sold. It's a scam again. How can [the government] be trusted when both the chancellor and later the minister say that they are not really going to sell the Port of Mine, but they are writing it in to the revenue side? Now that the Isamaa has submitted cuts of EUR 50 million in the process of processing the additional budget. Of course we did, but not stupid cuts. Where does the shoe still squeeze while trying to continue building tens of millions of buildings in the Ministry of the Environment? That's insane. It is unwise to make such painful cuts at the expense of the weakest and, at the same time, to continue building office buildings. That's the question. At the same time, the additional budget of EUR 300 million did not show any revenue from the pension reform. This is contrary to the basic law of the budget. But they didn't do it, too. How can you trust such a government? We don't talk about relationships with neighbors. Estonians have not had such bad relations with Finns for a long time than they regrettably are now. This diplomatically illiterate letter to the Finnish Prime Minister was, in my opinion, completely unreasonable. The transition to education in Estonian. It is said that the previous government is once again the previous government! just didn't do anything. That, of course, is not true. But then the Reform Party proposed to the Government of the Republic that in three years it will be possible to switch to education in Estonian. It is now ready for a transition to be made mainly by 2035. What is most bizarre, in my opinion it also relates in a sense to mathematics and logic, if we fail to make a percentage estimate of the increase or decrease in national defence expenditure, that then the first quarter of economic growth will be based on the Prime Minister, there will be an additional budget that we adopted in the Riigikogu. The additional budget we only adopted in April, but you see, the additional budget adopted in April had an impact on the growth of the first quarter already! This logic, such justifications and explanations, and this way about the government of the Fatherland, does not have confidence, and that is why we have signed a distrust initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U982	On behalf of the Jürgen Ligi Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U983	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Even apart from the ugly things that only the EKRE fraction is capable of, it must be said that it is not nice to do so yourself and then to pin it on others. It is not that the neck of the offspring must be stressed. It is not that our Prime Minister Kallas has accused the previous government that everything has been done wrong. The point is that distrusters are indiscriminately pouring their decisions on their offspring, regardless of whether they are good or bad. Self- perfectly reasonable decisions have been made as the end of the world, as a police state, as a monitoring society. Decisions such as these that we have not criticised have now been attributed to us and blamed on us. On the other hand, the correction of their mistakes by their descendants is presented as a summary of the charges. Moreover, it is not nice to lie, as was done repeatedly here, and it is not nice to remain naked. This text, which was presented to us, I am surprised that the Fatherland signed it, good that the Socats did not write it, was weak. The correct number of reproaches was in no way illustrated. I will give you a few examples of things that we have not criticised, but for which there is the greatest war here. Nets, or the Law on the Prevention and Control of Diseases, is what you have done, [you have decided] that the police can call for help, but now you are presenting it as the end of the world. The ABIS bill is made by you, too, but that's why we're sitting here and you're blaming us for it. It's not nice. We didn't blame you for that, don't you blame us. The rise of infection. It is easy to show when the increase in infection began. It is easy to show the right number of Jüri Ratas government decisions or not, followed by an increase in infection. But again, I don't remember us blaming the previous government on the infected numbers. I myself have rather praised the attitude that in the autumn the government was more sensible and at least tried a strategy to learn to live with the virus. Of course, controversial decisions were made at the beginning of the current government, but in general there is no reason to impose infection rates on one government. But an elephant in a room that is not specifically mentioned here, but hints at some incompetent decisions, of course, are budgetary decisions. They have been made by mistrusters at different times by a decision of the Minister of Finance or by holding the portfolio of the Minister of Finance. The Fatherland has already called for cuts in the additional budget for 2021. The original idea was to blame us for the cuts as such, luckily it's out. But the examples that are given are, over and over again, that there is no money. The budget's been blown. The budget has been lost in 2019 and we no longer had the resources to react more strongly to the crisis. The claim that 140,000 children are being given a disservice, that they are being deprived of half the money for their education of interest, is a direct lie. It takes an amount of... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U984	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U985	Interesting activities cost an amount of 170 million euros and we're only talking about seven million, but you're talking about half the amount. The reason, of course, is that crisis management has become so expensive for the state, for the central government, and this natural activity for the municipalities is now just to carry more of the municipalities. This money isn't going anywhere, I'm absolutely sure. It will simply be raised to the municipal budget. The same is true of drama about the interest on their mortgage. The Committee on Finance discussed this, not a single critical note from the EKRE, not one. The Fatherland dramatizes it. Let's take a look. Later, there will be an item on which I will report it. These have been the governments of the Fatherland, which have gradually reduced this advantage as meaningless and unfairly distributed in a row, repeatedly, Res Publica and Isamaa. Why do you tie it to Kaja Kallas with mistrust? To claim that most of the country has decided to stimulate the economy, blah, blah, blah, blah. We're talking next year's cutbacks, not this year's cutbacks. The crisis is over in the sense that the economy has taken off. We already have sectorial risks of overheating, for example in the construction sector. You are saying that the other [countries] are determined to stimulate and we are not. We have a severe budget deficit and it was more difficult to stimulate due to structural disadvantages. But this extra budget, too, was actually an incentive, which was the first thing that was done. After all, the Bank of Estonia and the Fiscal Council have prepared much stronger recommendations than the government has managed to agree. What did you, Members of the Fatherland, do while you were in government during the crisis? We did it together. If there is no money, it must be spent according to the possibilities, including defence costs, which are recalculated according to GDP. Every government has done it. Always! This number is never set in stone, but a new number is assigned each year. That's what this government is doing. You would have done the same thing. Activists. You're talking about tax increases. I remember one increase in tax or excise duty, which was at the end of 2016, when the gas excise duty was increased by 25% + 25% + 25% per year, for three years in a row. Who did? You did it yourself. And now you're blaming me. We were not very critical of the point of being low-taxed. But the current government has not made any decisions to increase excise duty. Why are you accusing us of this? Basically, since the clock was ringing, I say again: if you do it, don't blame the others! You didn't do everything wrong. But don't put these right things or the wrong things on your offspring. It's not pretty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U986	Indrek Saar on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U987	Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, It must be said that today probably did not move the parliamentary culture towards the better. In addition to the half-sisters, the lies and conspiracies that were launched here, there were still times when they behaved quite rudely. In Urmas Reinsalu's book "Foreign Minister" may have formulated it somehow, he is an expert on the gang of chickens. But if you look at what gentlemen on the right hand side promised themselves today, you might say that maybe this also falls within this definition. I very much hope that the summer will be refreshing, perhaps the season has been difficult, and we will come back in the new season with somewhat more courteous and respectful parliamentary practices and perhaps looking back into those times that we are proud of, which brilliant substantive debates have been held in this Chamber without personally insulting each other. Half-truths, lies, and conspiracy theories are, unfortunately, also found in the distrust text prepared by the EKRE and signed by the Fatherland. That is why the Social Democrats were unable to join this text, and we have also expressed it. However, we must admit that although we supported Kaja Kallas in the formation of a new government in January, the four and a little more months that this government has been in office have been disappointing. I will mention three issues here. The first issue is the government's promise, explicitly stated in the coalition agreement, to try to reduce inequality. I think that in the crisis, and after that, it is one of the main tasks of the government, but unfortunately it is not being done, it has been a fraud. The brightest example of this is that of children's chances. There's nothing you can do about that. Another issue that cannot be satisfied is the government's promise [in the area of corruption]. Let us remember how this government was born. It was born through a corruption scandal, and it actually sealed the birth of this government very clearly. There was also a very clear promise to be intolerant of political corruption. Unfortunately, the things that are made are pure cosmetics. In matters of substance, such as reducing the share of money in politics by limiting advertising volumes or giving more powers to the ERJK, there is little [doing]. Unfortunately, nothing has been done to get us caught on the back of those who do the goats. The third topic. Kaja Kallas, personally and also the coalition agreement, has promised a completely new attitude towards climate policy, especially compared to the previous government. But we can see how all these promises are actually rewinded, both by supporting the oil factory, in Narva by supporting the massive fireplace of trees [in support], where the momentum will be boosted, as well as in forestry policy. Unfortunately, the smell of CO2 is very intense, although it was allowed to be significantly reduced. To be honest, it's a damn shame to use such an expression that these things have been clearly run through the bar. I don't think we're really going in the right direction. I believe that not only the Reform Party, which has repeatedly given us a Nordic promise over the years, but society as a whole has this value space, the way society works in the Nordic countries, very much in mind. This is what you can learn from and in which direction you can move. In the case of the Reform Party, let us remember, Prime Minister Ansip perhaps 14 years ago promised to take us to the five richest countries in Europe in 15 years; he promised pensions such as those in the Nordic countries. You want pensions like in the Nordic countries? And in Taavi Rõiva, who first came and said that the time of the narratives was over, that our generation did not need a narrative, actually corrected it very quickly and began to tell us about the new Nordic country. Andrus Ansip now works most of the time in Europe, and Taavi Rõivas has gone to the private sector, but for example Kristen Michal, who was then Minister of Economic Affairs and now the chairman of the Economic Commission has the power of the coalition in office, even cut it into the sky. So far, there are planes that have been written on Nordica. After all, this Nordic dream has been sold to us by the Reform Party by various methods very consistently. But where we're headed now is definitely not the North. The Nordic countries will not go either if it is very difficult and it is not very difficult for us now if we look back a little bit in history, on the future and opportunities of children. In 1943, during the second World War, Finns introduced free school food and five years later fully enforced it. Now that was a poor time for them, in 1948 in Finland, all the repairs and other burdens they had on them. On the contrary, they were betting on the children. We are going, because it has occurred to us that cutting may be politically popular, the first thing to do is to attack the weakest. In Finland, as in other Nordic countries, it is generally the case that when they say that they want to build a coherent society, they actually do. We, yes, the previous government gave a lot of weight to the fact that society was not united. But today's government, from whom we hoped it would do so, [in front] of the Prime Minister, has taken a new stand: the private sector versus the public sector. It is not possible to have one country without one or the other, both of which are needed. Why are we creating an artificial confrontation, and let's say, listen, all of you, to whom we just tearfully said thank you for helping us through the crisis while you're on the front line, are freeloaders, you should be ashamed that the state is giving you money, you have to give some away, then we're kind of in solidarity with the private sector? The private sector does not need such solidarity. It's not a sensible thing to do. For all these and many other nuances, but essentially because of these concerns, the Socialists must say that we cannot give this government any more credit, and so we will vote accordingly. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U988	On behalf of the Group of the Imre Sooäär Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U989	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I do not want to speak for a long time, but my speech is sad because I discovered during these hours that we have a very large deficit in this Chamber: a lack of statesmanship, a lack of respect, a lack of political culture and a deficit of understanding. When I was talking about love here a few months ago, that is exactly what I meant, that we should have respect for each other and listen to [ready to] each other, while holding different opinions, but trying first to judge, not to condemn. The way the Prime Minister was attacked here today, in which words, with what techniques, was below the limit of criticism. You don't just do that! They don't do a mother, a woman, a head of state, a person who works every day in his best faith to make this country last. Yes, he has his shortcomings, he has his virtues, his weaknesses, but it must be understood that he does so in his best will, hope, and faith that we all understand it, and he does his best. This understanding was lacking today in this Chamber, and I think all the people who looked at it in your homes understood it. These debates should not be the way they were in this Chamber today. We've had a lot of talk here about budget cuts. Seeing how the country's economy is gaining momentum now, I believe that we will also find some compromises on these cuts in the autumn. Prospects for the future, forecasts will certainly be others in the autumn than they are today, and maybe give more opportunities to look exactly at what to cut and how to cut. These first shocking media messages on the subject of death were certainly not meant to be exactly that way. Well, there's been some mistakes in communication. All mistakes must be corrected. I don't think any government is perfect, it's never been, and it's never gonna be. It has to be understood that any new government can make some mistakes, it has to be understood. The least I could hear today in this Chamber was recognition, only criticism. Still, there were some brighter notes. I would like to congratulate Urmas Reinsalu, who said warm words to the Prime Minister about combining the capacity of business diplomacy [the Bureau] and EAS. This saga has been going on for years. It really deserves and needs to be resolved and, as we heard from the Prime Minister today, the government has reached an agreement on this. That's what we have to accept. That's the one thing where we show that we have to fight together. Estonia's goals outside Estonia and protecting them must be under one hat. But there were few words of praise. I think the Prime Minister deserves praise in other areas as well, and I want us to have more faith that a good word has a stronger power than evil and putting it behind us. The Foreign Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu met with the President of the Republic of Estonia two weeks ago and the President made a surprising statement. This was an External Action Service Act, which has not been dealt with by the Riigikogu since the President was rejected. The president said that he would not endorse with his signature 81 laws that deal with the partnership law, and if he continues as president, he would not send them out of the presidential castle with his signature. This means that this, too, is one of the issues to which we definitely have to come back during the autumn session, because otherwise it will hold back the procedure of 81 very important laws in the Riigikogu. I believe that by listening to each other and by calmly not splitting society, we will have the opportunity to put an end to this issue in the autumn as well. For my part, I can assure you that the support of the Centre Party and the Soviets is there. The votes are there in the Riigikogu, and we expect the Head of Government to arrive at the moment in the autumn so that we can take this matter in peace and resolve it. More understanding, more content, less bragging and more love! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U990	Ladies and gentlemen, In this round, we do indeed have the group speeches, but since Mr Reinsalu has been mentioned twice in different speeches, Mr Reinsalu has the opportunity to rejoin. There's two minutes to go.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U991	Thank you, Hanno, for such a benevolent interpretation. Just now Echo has left. I would have said...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U992	The Prime Minister has signaled that he wants to go away for a moment. I hope we understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U993	Understood, that's understandable. I would like to say that, in my own way, I actually liked the speeches of all the representatives of the political groups: the one who defended it and the one who attacked it. I think, of course, in all situations, we must remain dignified in our criticisms, remain humane and realise that we are not attacking a person here, but are responding to some kind of political handwriting. This, in turn, is the obligation that our constituents expect from us, because if you look aside, if something bad is done and you do not intervene, you will become co-responsible for this evil. The responsibility for passiveness is also a responsibility that we must not overlook. Now, about the cuts. Jürgen spoke wisely and beautifully, and he too has disappeared from [the hall]. The story was that in a smart country, a smart economy must be saved, invested and borrowed. All of this must be done wisely, not simply by striking an ax, by erecting axioms in one direction or another. But I want to tell you what got me through this political discussion. It was Mrs Prime Minister's case, a reference to 15 January, when it had already been known for two days that the old government had fallen and that a new government had been formed, negotiations had begun. At that time, the Government of Jüri Ratas, according to the Prime Minister, deliberately relaxed the corona restrictions in order to create a worse situation for the new government...... thereby harming the people so that the new government would be in a more difficult situation. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I would like to unequivocally reject that. No, there was no such thing, it wasn't at the table, it wasn't in the hallway. No one took that line of thought. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] To be honest, I feel a little appalled that we are being accused of such a course of thought. Never, even if we have criticised the current government in some activities...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U994	Mr Reinsalu, do not abuse the trust I have given you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U995	...we haven't said that somehow intentionally, deliberately, wrong things have been done. We've never been a part of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U996	Thank you! So, now we have negotiated, and now it is time to go to the preparation of the vote. I would remind you once again that in order for a motion of censure to be supported in the final vote, a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is needed and we have a public vote. Let's begin preparation. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the motion of censure on Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U997	36 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of expressing censure, 55 members of the Riigikogu opposed, no abstentions. The Riigikogu expressed confidence in Kaja Kallas. Congratulations! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U998	We will continue on today's agenda. The next item is the third reading of the draft law supplementing the Financial Supervision Authority Act initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. I will close the negotiations and start preparing the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, since we have just had a vote, do we want to... Mr. Pier!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U999	Mr President, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1000	Break ten minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, the intermission is over. I will put to the vote before you the draft law supplementing the Financial Supervision Authority Act, which was initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, 380. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1001	With the result of 84 [folk ambassadors], no respondents and no abstentions, the draft has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1002	Our third item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Act on the Election of the European Parliament and the Law on the Organisation of Local Government, initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The adoption of the draft requires a majority of its component members. I'm opening negotiations. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1003	Thank you very much. Don't run away! Don't run away, come back, please! I'm gonna talk. But all right. We'll take a break, then we can talk in private. But, dear friends, with Bill 389 there has been a very big and painful moment of choice for our conservative party. The reason, of course, is that while the war on the two chairs was already part of our society, EKRE took a completely deplorable, negative position in relation to this law. The reason was very simple. First of all, the structure of our society, created in such a way that our local government is autonomous and as far away from the country as possible, and the country, which is federal, is built differently and is located on the other side of the wall. We have always found that there are very many good people among us who can do very well with the local government's work, and we see no reason why we should begin to reconcile the two positions, the position of the Riigikogu [member] and the position of the local government [member of the council]. But, well, let's be honest, this war went on for a long time, for years, eventually reached the Supreme Court, and that battle was then held. When the Conservative Party entered politics, we discussed among ourselves that there would be a time when we could reverse it. After all, when this war was going on, it was declared at a very high level that it was a political decision, and it is actually up to us. The problem here is not so much about the Constitution, but about how we make this political decision. All right, this battle has been fought, and the law of the two chairs has been put into effect. Yes, there are also very good colleagues who sit on one side and on the other side, both in the local government and here in the Riigikogu. Now we have a new draft law, 389 which we are currently considering and which could be termed three chairs, because it was found that the members of the European Parliament could participate in the work of the local government in this way. Well, to be quite honest, physically, it's kind of weird to put this thing into practice. The more electronic we work, the easier it is, in principle, but in general, we have discussed here and made a gallows joke about how Valka could fly from Brussels and vice versa. But what I have to thank the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Toomas Kivimägi, is, of course, that he has rightly mentioned one moment: if we already have the law of the two chairs in force and, despite our disapproval, we have not reversed it, then it is perhaps not very justified to ban the third chair in the current situation. And with a heavy heart, I'm gonna give you that signal from here. I strongly argue that the law on two or three chairs is not pleasant for the Estonian Conservative People's Party. We don't like it very much, but they'll decide how they do it. But let's say it's bad political practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1004	There are no more requests for negotiations, I will close the negotiations. The commission's proposal is for a final vote and we will prepare it. Rene Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1005	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. On behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1006	Break ten minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, the intermission is over. Let's go to the final vote. I am voting on the draft law amending the Act on the Election of the European Parliament and the Law on the Organisation of Local Government, initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, 389. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1007	There are 56 members in favour, 4 against and 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1008	Let us move on to the fourth item on the agenda. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I would like your attention. On the fourth item, we are about to vote on the amendments, because this was the part where we were in the middle of an additional session and we could not take a break before the first amendment, as this was taken during the additional session. Mr. Grünthal, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1009	Thank you, Mr President. I have an absolutely procedural question. We are now at point four, draft law 381, on the amendment of the Water Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, but there are no draft 381 texts in the box behind me, and I would have a very big request that maybe if you don't want to give it to others, at least give it to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1010	Come here, I'll give it to you. Or I'll send you. You see, Mr. Stalnukhin is sending you. Cooperation between the Centre Party and the EKRE works nicely. So, Mr. Weightep, don't you have [the text of the draft]?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1011	Yes, I also have a procedural question, Mr President. I remember last time, when we discussed the same item, we did not really come to the examination of the amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1012	I'm afraid you're wrong here. The negotiations were concluded and amendments were examined. Mr Netship then took a ten-minute break before voting on the first amendment. Then ten minutes were expected in unanimous peace and, unfortunately, only three Riigikogu ambassadors were present and the session was interrupted. Mr. Woodland.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1013	Thank you very much, good Hanno! That's where the question arises for me. You said earlier that we would not take a break from Amendment 1 because it was taken. We will look at Amendment 1. But when I look at the explanatory memorandum, here are Amendments 1 and 3. Does this remark, then, that a break cannot be taken concern two proposals and we will vote on two amendments?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1014	We will examine all the amendments. We are currently on Amendment 1, and I said that no break can be taken on Amendment 1, as this break was taken at the additional session, and then we will go on to Amendment 2. One is followed by two, two by three and three by four. Any more questions? I shall put to the vote before you Amendment 1, tabled by the social... Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1015	Yeah, thanks! I would, however, try to understand how we can vote... [[Noise in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1016	Sorry, quiet!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1017	How can we vote on amendments that we do not have? If I do not know what amendment I will vote on if it is not in the Chamber, how can I vote on it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1018	Sorry, but these are amendments tabled by the Social Democratic Party. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] A microphone for Indrek Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1019	You're not suggesting that I need to know all the amendments and their order by heart? However, I would like to check whether my memory is working correctly and to understand what the amendment is.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1020	The good question is why we do not have any amendments. They must have been taken from behind the drawers. After all, we usually have an agreement that we no longer print out amendments or draft laws 101 pieces, but we make some copies of them in case anyone has a wish. Now, Mr. Indrek Saarel had a question. Can we also bring the list of amendments to Indrek Saar back there? [[In the diner.]] No, Reform Party, I don't know what to say, but I'm sure in a big consensus we can solve this problem. Now, does anyone else have a desire to have the list of amendments in their possession? Then we can go to the vote. The first amendment. I would like to remind you once again that we are discussing Bill 381, Water Law. The first amendment is tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the proposal of the commission is to disregard it. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1021	The amendment was supported by 15 members of the Riigikogu, 52 against. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 2, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, proposed by the commission, is to disregard this. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1022	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1023	Break ten minutes. Please, colleagues, if anyone else has a wish, if you really do not have any materials, we have people here who will help. Come to them, they'll print out exactly what we need. Ladies and gentlemen, The manager needs to make a little bit of a clarification. I believe that this will not change the end result, but since the EKRE Group only asked for a break and did not want to vote on the amendment, I am trying to read Mr Koka's eyes about whether you want a vote. Then we agree. I dared to assume that this is the case, but the next time, just for the sake of regularity: if you want to take a break, it must be a prerequisite for voting on the amendment. Does Mr Island wish to put this amendment to the vote? Yeah. We read it in each other's eyes, that's how we agreed. Does Mr. Chef still want to protest, or can we move on?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1024	No, I do not wish to protest, but I think at least I wanted to put the amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1025	Yeah. But the only thing that got out was a recess request. Well, we realized each other on the flight. Let's try to continue this pleasant cooperation. I shall put Amendment 2 to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. I said that before... I cut off the vote. I'm sorry! I said this before we went on a break that this [amendment] was tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the proposal of the commission was to disregard it, but I will say it again. Amendment 2, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, proposed by the commission: disregard. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1026	The proposal was supported by 20 members of the Riigikogu, 53 against. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 3, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, has been rejected by the commission. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1027	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. On behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I ask that this amendment be put to the vote and I wish to take a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1028	Perfectly correct. Break ten minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, the intermission is over. I shall put to the vote Amendment 3, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, and the position of the commission is to be disregarded. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1029	With the result of 16 votes against 51 [Members of the Riigikogu], the proposal was not supported. The fourth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment and the lead committee has taken full account of it. Kalle Grünthal, do you really have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1030	Thank you. You put this question as follows: I am voting on the draft tabled by the Socialists, the proposal of the commission of directors to delete it. Now there was a situation where, say, the Reform Party voted against the proposal of the lead committee. That means it should go in.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1031	Here, unfortunately, you are wrong, you should read the Rules of Procedure once again. Mr. Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1032	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. On behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I ask that this amendment be put to the vote and, before the vote on the amendment, I request a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1033	We cannot go to recess yet, because Mr Grünthal wants something more specific.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1034	Thank you, Mr President. Then I would ask that this draft be put to the vote not to whine, but to speak very clearly and calmly. It should be regulated in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1035	Mr Grünthal, I have put all the proposals to the vote very clearly. The vote will be on the amendment. The one on whose behalf this is presented and what is proposed by the commission is information for you. You will vote on the amendment. I am prepared to offer you once again that if you have more detailed questions about the Rules of Procedure, we will find people at the Chancellery of the Riigikogu who will help you to bring yourself up to date with the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu. All right, intermission ten minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, the intermission is over. I will put to the vote before you the fourth amendment tabled by the Committee on the Environment. The Governing Commission has taken full account of this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1036	The proposal was supported by 65 members of the Riigikogu, one against and no abstentions. The proposal was supported. With this, we have examined the amendments and concluded the second reading. Sorry, we've received two letters. Before we finish second reading, we need to review the proposals made by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party and the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which coincide with one to one, and both propose to suspend the second reading of Bill 381. We have to vote through this, but I think there's a wish in Mr. Põllea first.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1037	Indeed, Mr President-in-Office, it is quite right that I have a wish and a wish that I ask for a ten-minute break on behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1038	Ten minutes break. Honourable Riigikogu, please pay attention! [[The manager's calling from the bell.]] We need to take a position on the proposal by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the EKRE Group to interrupt the second reading of Bill 381. I therefore vote on the motion by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to interrupt the second reading of Bill 381. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1039	With the result of 32 and 52 against, the proposal was not supported. Now we can say that the second reading of this bill is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1040	We will move on to the fifth item, which is the draft law amending the Law on Electronic Communications, the Building Code and the Law on State Fees, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Kalvi Tõud, member of the Economic Commission, has announced that he wishes the presentation to be made by the Chair of the Economic Commission. So Kristen Michal, Chairman of the Good Economic Commission, please, the Chair is waiting! Mr. Kruusimäe! A microphone for Mr. Kruss Hill, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1041	[I have] a procedural [question] that otherwise we had to vote on all the changes here, but now it turns out that someone says that they're putting the body on. Is this a legal kosher?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1042	Mr Kruusimäe, yes, indeed, it is true that, if a Member of the Commission is unable or unable to make a report, the chairman of the committee is always entitled to make a report. Mr. Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1043	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Just as Mr President described, Mr Kalvi Tõvi did his best, but since the timetable has been unpredictable, because there are happy events in life, as there are graduations, I will replace him. I'm trying to do it with dignity and courteousness. It is now a second reading, and I will then describe what happened in the meantime with the Electronic Communications Act, or Bill 301, in the Commission. Perhaps to introduce more widely [I say] it is just a draft, which is well known in many respects because of its most important parts, or networks, or critical infrastructure security and 5G issues. I recall that this debate has been going on a long time in the world, and in November 2019 Prime Minister Jüri Ratas signed an agreement with US Vice President Mike Pence on the security of 5G...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1044	Mr. Michal, I'm sorry for a moment. Mr. Reinsalu, may I ask you to lower your voice a little bit or speak outside the hall? I understand, but it's just awfully difficult for me to even listen from a foot away. I can hear your voice more. Now, Mr. Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1045	Thank you! I'm not sorry, Reinsalu issued a book today, and tomorrow he'll present it to us. I'm advertising it from here. Come on, everybody! Okay, now the bill to yourself. This draft was launched on 14 December last year and the main aim of this draft is to align the Electronic Communications Act with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing the European Electronic Communications Code, the Communication Directive, the deadline for transposition of which was 21 December 2020. The first reading took place on 24 March and the deadline for submitting amendments, 8 April by Riigikogu members, political groups and other committees did not propose amendments. The draft procedure in Parliament was notified of the respective alliances, market participants and the draft opinion. It is also included in the draft map of market participants, Tele2 etc., including, for example, the NGO Internet Society Estonia, ITL, the Association of Information Technology and Telecommunications, the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities, Law Firms and the NGO Community for the benefit of the Community. Once again, after all the proposals on the draft map, the originator's position has been set out. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications also expressed its views on these opinions and presented proposals to the commission which helped to make this draft more legal at the limited time we acted. The Commission itself discussed this draft at its meeting of 4 May, 17 May and 7 June. When I arrive in time, I will try to discuss the minutes of these sittings as well, but our minutes are quite detailed and can be found on the Internet. So if anyone wants to go back to history later or for any other activity, they're gonna get those protocols out of there. All the meetings were, of course, attended by representatives of the initiator of the [draft]. On 4 May, we heard opinions and discussed concerns. Key issues may be: safety of communications networks, reliability of technology, compensation for replacement of 5G security, storage and use of communication data, frequency of market analysis, distance sales calls, deadlines for switching operators, setting minimum rates for frequency competitions, coverage of costs of number 1247, obligation to retransmission of television programmes, right of access to a building owned by a state or local government unit. Some of the topics received more attention, some a bit shorter, some we did not discuss further in the course of this draft. There was a long debate on 5G security and possible compensation, as well as on the frequency of the market analysis. We have made one change concerning the cost of bearing the number 1247. The Legal and Analytical Department of the Riigikogu found that what was written in the draft law is not constitutional, and that is why we had to include this point. This is in the amendments. We also improved the deadlines on the proposal of the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities to coordinate how to install 5G objects. At the meeting of the Economic Commission on 17 May, this is now the second of three sittings, a representative of the Ministry of Justice participated in addition to the representatives of the MKM. We also talked about the security of communications networks, compensation, market analysis and telephone number 1247. Markko Künnapu, representative of the Ministry of Justice, gave an overview of the state of play regarding the development of regulation on the storage and use of communication data. This does not concern this bill, just because it came up for discussion and, if I remember correctly, the NGO Estonian Internet Society asked us for it, and so was the review. It is probably up to the Committee on Legal Affairs to make this change, if I remember correctly. The amendments were discussed and voted on on 7 June. We have tabled five amendments. These were submitted by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and, between the two readings, they also went through language editing and the corresponding corrections have been made. With the amendments, the first is mostly technical in the short term. The second amendment is to exclude from the draft the obligation of a communication undertaking to guarantee free of charge [telephone number] 1247 calls, and that was the place where we discussed whether it would be possible to impose this obligation in the same way as 112. Of course, 112 [obligation] comes again from other agreements and the [second] directive. Let's be honest, there were opinions. This amount did not seem large at the beginning, but, as I mentioned, the legal and analysis department of our own house said that putting such an obligation in this way is not constitutional, and that is why we have corrected and we are taking this point out. The third amendment concerns legal clarity, as it was also a matter for the government. If you remember, I must have been on the remote about 14 months ago to give a speech on the same bill. The law was then passed in the Riigikogu, i.e. the law, and there was a debate in the government in the meantime, where the Chancellor of Justice found that before imposing the obligation to authorise the hardware or software of the communication network by the Government of the Republic, the power of attorney should be specified. That is why this is also a third proposal. These different powers of attorneys have been specified here. To this I can mention that it is once again online on this bill card. MKM has also sent 36 pages of material to this effect if anyone wishes to read. Amendment 4, as I mentioned, was also the subject of a debate by the Cities and Municipalities Association, and some grounds for refusal were added, for which the municipality could have the possibility to refuse to install 5G, for example, architectural inadequacy. I think it's a pretty reasonable attitude. The time limit for taking a decision shall be extended from one month to two months in order to allow for consultation of different authorities, where appropriate. Amendment 5 concerns the date of entry into force. The date of entry into force is July 15, 2021. Procedural decisions and proposals of the lead committee. The Committee on Economic Affairs proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading on 14 June and the second reading closed. When the second reading of the draft is closed, the Commission's proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for the third reading and to hold a final vote on 17 June. I think I can introduce what happened at the committee meetings in the course of my work. Overall, I mentioned the most important, and the Commission's protocols are quite comprehensive. I think that the great amount of time that we spent in the Commission dealing with this whole draft was spent listening to the concerns of market participants and the various concerns and discussing what we could do to ensure that the law that comes from the legislator is of sufficient quality and that we ourselves are satisfied with it. One of the concerns that we discussed at length and which we also recorded in the minutes was the possibility of a debate on compensation. I will try briefly to refer it to the question that if there is a switch from certain technologies or if it is said that certain technologies do not fit into any networks, some of the so-called market participants are more in trouble than others, and they have proposed that, in order for this debate to end faster and the transition to be smoother, the State should compensate them for the possible costs. There was also a longer debate on this in the Commission. We reached such an attitude that, in general, since the state often has situations where the state has concerns with either security, health or whatever higher interests, we turn to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice, and perhaps also to the Minister of Public Administration, this list is not definitive, and we propose that we consider and discuss such a compensation mechanism, if, for example, a transfer is necessary for security or other purposes. It can be technological, it can be in any other field. It could also be health protection or whatever the higher interest is. This, in our opinion, would have to be worked out and obviously cannot be resolved within the framework of this draft. We also talked to MKM representatives, Raul Rik and their lawyer. Why this would be necessary is that sometimes it is the result of important changes that are important to the state, perhaps important to the public, or important to the public, in an unpredictable business environment, and the aim does not have to be that, if public authorities make any decisions and whoever is affected by them, they will find themselves in a situation where their only way out is to go to court with their own country. As a result, we have written it down and we are making proposals. This has nothing to do with a possible dispute over this particular draft. And even the existence of a compensation mechanism does not guarantee that the compensation will be paid. This may be a description of one of the issues concerning the security of 5G and our discussions in the Commission. I'm not going to read the bill myself, everybody has it. I'll see what's more important. I told you about the number 1247. In this regard, it is the case that the state uses this hotline, it also used it in the crisis, and later it combines different functions, and in the Commission we realized that the country needs to reserve this number. However, it is not constitutional to assume that this will be done free of charge, unless it is an emergency phone and it is still connected with functions. This assessment came to us from the Chancellery of the Riigikogu and we propose that it be deleted. Yeah, I think that's enough for now. The Commission's procedural decisions have been reported and proposals for amendments have been revised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1046	There are a lot of questions for you. Jevgeni Ossinovski will begin.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1047	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I'm glad you're [Rapporteur], not Kalvi Tough, because he wouldn't be able to answer my question. Urmas Jaagant, an informed and wise journalist, writes that this bill has now begun to move because a coalition deal was made. We're amazed at how Bill 156, the bill for the mass burning of wood, started to move on like this. The Reform Party was still opposed, but now all of a sudden we're going to start processing it here in a hurry. The price of this was going on with this bill, which the Centre Party opposed before. Could you comment on the information published in the press? And if you use the jargon of the previous government, it looks like the sausages of the Central Party were a bit thicker this time. How do you feel: two, perhaps three million cubic metres of forest furnace versus certain technical communications issues?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1048	Thank you. First of all, I note that Urmas Jaagant is certainly a good investigative journalist. He himself knows where his sources are and where [his] conclusions come from. He is often quite close to the truth, but not always, as is always the case with conjecture. Now at the end of this question, my good colleague, it seems to me that you are reducing the importance of this draft, because we are saying honestly, if it is customary to say that the previous government did something wrong, I say the opposite: the previous government was already on the right track on this issue. George Ratas, however, met Mike Pence and agreed to this. We passed the law 14 months ago, and today is actually the road ahead. I think that this is immeasurably more important to us in the security partnership than the debate about whether there is one balance within the coalition or another. So don't diminish its importance, and everything else will be yours to assume.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1049	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1050	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I see you had good, serious and interesting discussions, but I don't see anywhere how the risks of possible magnetic storms have been grounded. We know that our entire system could be dead at some point. This is what happened in the previous composition when we discussed similar cases in the Committee on Economic Affairs. Is there no sign of [danger], or are these so cheap, that in the event of any interruption, for example, in the case of magnetic storms, we are installing new ones?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1051	Thank you, my good colleague. This is not what we discussed in the Commission. This regulation has nothing to do with the physical durability of equipment. At least we did not have this debate in my presence. Perhaps Mr Kalvi Tõll had some discussions in the working group that I did not attend.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1052	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1053	Good manager! Good waitress! I didn't hear you ever use the name Huawei or Elisa. Are those wolves whose name cannot be called? How much could this compensation amount be? I've read about 50 million. Or is it 170 million, or what is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1054	Thank you. The mention of a particular producer's brand in this context is not an end in itself. It has this label in the press, but once again: I think that all major countries, any producer's homeland, realise that in today's critical infrastructures they must have at least a moderate ability to check that these infrastructures work in a way that they should work in the public interest. It could be one, two or three brands. This is not really a decision on the basis of the lawmakers, i.e. me and you and all of us, on the basis of the so-called brand, because when we discussed it here 14 months ago, I was just going back in time, there were different options on the table. There was a black list and there was a white list, but then we took the decision that the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority, or TTJA, together with various partner services in Estonia and abroad, is the one who will provide input. So, therefore, the mention of a particular brand, I think, is not even necessary in this context. You asked for the size of a possible claim. Well, that's what we discussed in the committee, it was a question format. We don't have that exact knowledge. This magnitude you mentioned went through, but I would stress that this is a completely speculative assessment, because it is also a separate debate object. Why am I even describing this? Because it was also part of the Commission's debate, and I must describe it here. We discussed how existing networks can be built onto new networks with what technology, etc. This is actually going to be the question of whether it is possible to switch to it and what it will cost a particular market participant. I do not want to be a fortune teller, but I think it will be a technical and legal dispute. I'm assuming that, but I can't say it with a rock fortress.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1055	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1056	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! At the beginning of this draft procedure last year, the heads of the security authorities also came to us to talk about this issue, and the issue was still that the hardware or software used does not endanger the security of the state. This Act is supplemented by § 873 "Requirements for communications networks and services to ensure national security' and states that hardware or software used in the provision of a communication service on a communications network must not endanger national security. Did you also discuss in the Commission what are the main threats under this paragraph?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1057	Thank you. I think that's a good question. We discussed it. Now, if I get this straight, we even made a proposal for an amendment. I will see where we have this list of amendments. As a result of this debate, we have put in place additional requirements for communications networks and services to ensure national security. It was a debate that happened here. In the past, [these requirements] were planned at the level of the ministerial regulation, which is why they existed and were taken immediately. I don't know if it's unique now, but maybe it's a first time that it also states at law level what these criteria might be about. I am not going to read everything, but it is on pages 3 and 4, if you look at it. This [amendment] states that it must not endanger national security and says that it can endanger national security and then a list of risks arising from the manufacturer and the provider of maintenance and support services and from the technical characteristics or settings of the hardware or software is to be moved forward. The assessment of high-risk hardware and software shall take into account, inter alia, information on the location of the manufacturer and the provider of maintenance and support services, the transfer of the country of residence, including aggressive behaviour, financing and economic activities in cyberspace. Well, that list is pretty long. Yeah, we discussed it, and it's put in here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1058	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1059	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, With this draft, there is certainly no overcoming or overcoming the issue of the dangers arising from the fact that any new, advanced technology is in the hands of totalitarian regimes, which can use it very badly at global level to expand their influence. Certainly the most marked example here is the Communist regime in China and Huawei, but in fact, this topic is much wider, which concerns all kinds of organisations and institutions that are of global importance. We take even large corporations, social media giants, etc. I would ask how much you discussed this whole issue more widely in the Commission and whether you foresee that, together with technological developments, we will have to make more and more similar legislative changes in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1060	Thank you. We didn't really discuss it as widely as you ask. But, broadly speaking, I do not think that what you are describing is one major trend in the world and the question is how, in the absence of an ever-increasing power of networks, or let's say, in the absence of a better term, there is some public oversight of the communication infrastructure, some sort of arbitrage. This debate will be held both in Europe and, in fact, in the United States, which are our main partners, but I think we must also think about it in Estonia. However, within the framework of this [draft], we will not, of course, resolve this [question].
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1061	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1062	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Paragraph 91 (6) (1) here states that the one-off fee for the authorisation of frequencies submitted to the public competition is up to EUR 3 million. According to the law so far, it was half the size. Can you explain to me, first, where that number came from? Is that $3 million coming from some kind of directive? And secondly, since it says 'until', does this mean that there must be some kind of assessment basis on which this final amount is assessed? Can you briefly tell me how it is appreciated?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1063	Thank you. I can, I even have a description of it in the table of amendments. I admit I have so much cabbage here that I can't find it. But by memory, yes, since 2010, this level is about 1.5 [million] and 3 million is the maximum rate. The Minister appreciates this before the maximum rate is set and, well, today we do not know how many frequencies [will be] and how it all goes. In fact, [the Minister] will then give this reasoned assessment. I think the MKM and the authorities will probably work through it and evaluate it on the basis of it. But it exists under the terms, opinions and suggestions of the Electronic Communications Act and the Building Code. ITL asked the same question, and here's the explanation. When I get to it, maybe I can refer it later.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1064	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1065	Good manager! Dear Kristen! As a member of the Commission, I have been in this matter all along, and I actually consider this to be the right thing. But the question is that since we have a company in Estonia that is constantly dealing with the problem of electromagnetic radiation, and that means that since this is a 5G technology, their concern for years has been how [5G] will affect our people's health and so on. Since we don't have control capabilities, it'll be shaded. The question is this: can we send a message to society from here? Otherwise, I would not ask how it affects human health, because in the Commission we were still looking at it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1066	Thank you, Riho! This is a matter for the sake of the protocol. We have discussed this in the Commission. I think perhaps even other committees have discussed this. This issue has been [up] in society and has been subject to factual checks. I'm just gonna fix you so much that there's actually a measure, of course, isn't there? It has been repeatedly measured and, as time goes on, the lower and rather safer this radiation becomes. It has also been repeatedly verified for 5G. And one thing that is carefully measured is the waves sent and accepted by the equipment. I dare assure you that, according to our Commission's knowledge, this is not a health hazard [radiation], but rather, in the future, such networks can help to preserve health and save human lives.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1067	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1068	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! It is stated here that the State or the local authority may charge a reasonable fee to the telecommunications operator for the installation of an access point, covering the costs of installing an access point for the State or the municipality. How much can this be a reasonable charge, and does it only concern installation, as has been said here, or does it also apply to the later handling of the access point?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1069	Thank you. We did not discuss that further. We were discussing how this could all look. However, I assume that this [remuneration] should still be such that the municipality is also satisfied and that this network will be so useful that it is kept. But I cannot give you one answer, because that is not what we in the Commission were discussing how it would look.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1070	Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1071	Thank you. From this description, I understood that the Commission decided to continue the debate on compensation logic later. But what is the reason why this has not been completed in the context of this draft procedure? After all, we have a situation where the same Elisa that was mentioned here must probably replace her own equipment because the state is simply saying that it has to be done. I understand the current position is that if the company wants compensation, it has to go to court. That doesn't seem like a very liberal approach. Of course, there are certain situations where the company needs to take action, but do you feel that this is a fair approach?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1072	Thank you. I'm gonna go back in time. As I mentioned earlier, when we discussed it here 14 months ago, it was then that it was a compromise on which it was based today. The transition period by 2025 means that core networks [are] created immediately, another 2025 to 20299, and this is hopefully sufficient to make the transition sufficiently painless, but also take into account public and national interest. I cannot say whether it is liberal or conservative, on the left or on the right, but if you ask whether it would be practical to create some kind of mechanism in the future, for example, if the country has some kind of transition to make quickly in the higher interest, and you want the subjects on the market not to fight it or not to be hurt, but this change should take place in cooperation and quickly, then I think that such a mechanism could be. If you ask why it is not in this law, it is because [to do this] was not reached and there is no consensus on the solution. We also asked the MKM who submitted this draft, but there was generally a stance that [the establishment of such a mechanism] could be considered in the future. Those involved in cyber security also thought that this would be a good idea for security in the long term. And so we agreed that we would make this appeal. The alternative is that if this bill stops now, there will be no 5G competitions and maybe the development of this area will be blocked. Given how long this has been dealt with, as I recalled, this agreement with the US was concluded quite a long time ago and the transitional deadline for the Communication Directive was a long time ago, I think that Estonia should go ahead with this act today and if later something needs to be improved or changed, it will change. But my recommendation is abstract and does not concern compensation for a particular phenomenon. Such a mechanism [should] be put in place and [is] not only my recommendation, but it was a unanimous stance within the Commission, which was supported by the people over MKM. They found it reasonable, so that's what we stayed with.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1073	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1074	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Good waitress! I have a question. With this draft, there will be a terrible amount of work and, by the way, power for the TTJA, the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority. That in itself always gives me the creeps. TTJA is already one of the largest and most powerful authorities in Estonia today, of which people know nothing very much. Do we also know that there will be more posts, an increase in the budget, or how the increasing workload and increased competences will affect the Agency? Are we seeing any risks here?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1075	Thank you. This is not what we discussed in the Commission. I honestly say that I expect TTJA to be able to make the necessary assessments with the various partner services within Estonia that have the relevant know-how and with friendly countries, such as NATO [states] or the United States, when exchanging information with us. It is a matter of national security hygiene, which must be dealt with in any case. If you ask them if they can get more power or more power, then yes, that's what this bill gives them. But I honestly say that I think this is one of those areas that have marinated through at least two governments, and I do not think either of them has the feeling that it would be something that would be disproportionate. So I hope they can handle it, and I assume it doesn't pose any major problem. However, we have already talked about possible interferences, including, for example, those of business interests. This is actually the subject of debate, and I would not rule out the issue of judicial debate. But once again, at the moment, the legislator is working on the material he has.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1076	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1077	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Nothing can be built on hope. This is a rapidly developing area in which industrial espionage interests, the espionage interests of different countries and, of course, the interests of hackers are invading, which means that if one authority receives the corresponding tasks, it must also have the relevant competence. Was there any mention of this in the Commission, and what would it cost the taxpayer if this competence was developed and expanded quickly?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1078	Thank you. As I described in my previous reply, we did not discuss the change in the composition of the TTJA. At least I was not present to this debate, so I say that Kalvi Tõvi was a leading mentor and perhaps in some working groups this was specifically mentioned. We can clarify this later, even in writing. As far as possible security risks are concerned, yes, this draft and this whole initiative are aimed at reducing them. But I will say once again that this is a broader part of cyber and security hygiene and, in fact, that our public services, our networks, our infrastructure are guaranteed in the way we want it to be. There's another bill in the proceedings, which unfortunately, is stuck, but he'll be here in the fall. This concerns the nature of the cybersecurity coverage that does not concern the distribution of this bill between the police and the administration of MKM. So these issues are being dealt with, but we did not discuss it in [the procedure for this draft]. Specific answer: [Commission] we did not discuss the composition and scope of the TTJA. Once again, I'm sorry if the Rocky Hardy did this, and I don't know about it. We'll send the information in writing after.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1079	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1080	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I do, however, agree a little with Mr Helme's question. I'd like to go a little deep, and I have a particular problem. Under Article 8 of the Law on Electronic Communications, TTJA and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications manage radio frequencies, but according to the draft amendment to the Law on Media Services, TTJA should also take care not to incite violence or hatred [based on] sex, race, skin colour, sexual orientation and, well, I am not going to read all of this. My question is how many officials are involved in the management of radio frequencies in the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority. The concern is whether this draft will not increase the administrative burden on TTJA so much that the control of incitement to anger remains too superficial and anger will be passed through.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1081	Thank you, good questioner! I hope that anger will not pass, but we did not discuss it for perfectly understandable reasons. However, this [draft] concerns electronic communications, security of networks, equipment, core networks and everything that concerns these issues. We did not discuss radio or television programmes, their content and incitement to hatred.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1082	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1083	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I have a very simple question: did the Economic Commission be contacted by an embassy of a large friendly people republic or by a technology company during the procedure of this bill? I mean in the most friendly way, hints.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1084	I consider Finland to be the most friendly [country]. Finland did not [connect]. But I understand you still meant the People's Republic of China. The embassy [did not contact], but Huawei is one of those who also participated in our committee's [session]. I'll see right away: law firm COBALT represented Huawei Technologies Oy (Finland) Co. Ltd.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1085	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1086	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! My question relates to telephone number 1247 1 number 24 hours [in a day], seven days a week. After all, last year, the President did not declare [the law], I think there was a breach of the constitution, and I remember that you all had a big question as to whether volunteers would go crazy with their personal data if they were going to make a voluntary contribution to the information line. Didn't the Commission now come up with this issue, or have we come up with some kind of knowledge? I read in the record that this issue has not been raised. It would be very bad if you had planned to bring this law into force on 15 July, including when it turns out that the President is saying that there is again a breach of [the Constitution]. Then we're in a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1087	Yes, thank you, my good colleague. The life of the legislator is complicated. Who said it had to be easy? But there is probably no fear of this draft, because in 1247 we only had a debate on whether this number should be free and whether to place this obligation on operators. According to memory, ITL, the Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Association, asked about this. Our Legal and Analytical Department, if I say it right now, concluded that putting this obligation would be unconstitutional, and that is why we have tabled one amendment that we are going to vote on here and we are going to withdraw it [obligation]. Whoever is operating with 1247, who has access to [data], how it is organised and what services are provided there, we only briefly discussed in this [context] that it is a national hotline, while 112 is an emergency phone, right? That was the difference. That is probably why the respected analysts of the Riigikogu came to this conclusion. So I guess there won't be a problem. But does the President have the right to consider the law inappropriate? Absolutely, it is his work, his role and his mandate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1088	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1089	Good manager! Good waitress! From one earlier debate, I remember that there are no such initiatives in the European Union Centre, around Brussels, in Belgium. Consequently, it is my question that how many such countries are in the European Union, who are rejecting the Huawi in the same way as Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1090	Thank you. I do not have this list at hand now, but this attitude, in fact, that, at different levels and in different ways, the security of our critical infrastructure is, I think, present in all countries. It's just the way someone's ensured it. In the course of this debate, examples were given that some countries would compensate for this transition, some would not. But the so-called perception that this is an important infrastructure and service is, I think, worldwide. After all, your colleague Kaalep actually indicated that the world is developing and that the concept of critical infrastructure is developing in some way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1091	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1092	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I should like to return to the security of communications services provided for in § 873 as an amendment. This amendment is described as follows: high-risk hardware and software shall be assessed taking into account, inter alia, information on whether the manufacturer, maintenance or support service provider is in a country where the democratic rule of law is not respected or human rights are not respected, or in a country which is not a Member State of the European Union or of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, or in a country where intellectual property, personal data or business secrets are not protected. Well, this list is, of course, longer. But I'm interested in how we take this information into account and what comes from it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1093	Thank you. This information and this list, as I mentioned, are not exhaustive or binding. In particular, this assessment is to be made. Why this list is here and why I think this list is rather good is because it also gives market participants, providers of any technology, a possible sieve, matrix, 'glasses', to look at how they can be evaluated. The evaluator actually comes from the TTJA, which, along with the various partner services, tries to assess it, because let's just say that I'm sure that any assessments can be obtained from the TTJA, both counter-intelligence and foreign intelligence, or wherever, from all partner services that have such capacity to evaluate it, technical services and partners from all over the world. According to this, these estimates are made. This catalogue is a possible example of the form in which this assessment could take place and, as a whole, this decision will actually take place.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1094	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1095	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, In the public media, I mean, of course, the liberal media, the Estonian Päevaleht and Delfit That's what it says. And now, if you add the fear of a good colleague, Martin Helme, that TTJA will grow, you could say that almost as a ministry of propaganda and information, you need to take away all kinds of fears. I therefore ask that when I look at the protocol of 7 June, where it was... in the protocol of 7 June, the [proposal] 301 debate begins with the question that Sven Sester will examine whether there is clarity in the coalition on this draft. Kristen Michal says he hopes so. So, what was the question of clarity about? What did you expect: legal, technical, technological [clearness]? What did you find out?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1096	Thank you. I am generally an optimistic person, and I therefore expressed hope. Sven, I think, asked in particular whether there was a consensus on the wording of the draft and on the voting on the various points of the draft, and I said that I hope that this consensus exists. One compromise of this consensus was the creation of additional legal clarity. We added the part that I said to Mr Grünthal: these same requirements for communications networks and services to ensure national security, so that this list is also here [in the draft] and legal clarity is better.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1097	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1098	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear waitress, Researchers, doctors and other professionals from all over the world who study health impacts have repeatedly issued warnings on the introduction of 5G technology and called for its installation to be suspended, as its health and environmental effects have not been sufficiently studied. In several countries the installation of 5G has been suspended. Did the Commission also discuss this and what the Commission's views were?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1099	Thank you. As I said in reply to your benchmate and my colleague from the Commission, Mr Breivel, we did not discuss this further in the course of this draft, but it was mentioned once. If you look at the descriptions of different Estonian scientists and I looked at a show where Estonian scientists spoke, electromagnetic radiation is one of the best fields studied and it is actually quite clear in the case of 5G how it spreads. Perhaps it helps to understand better that the installation of 5G and its range of activity is significantly lower, which shows that radiation levels and propagation are lower. I don't think we'd want to be in the same room as the equipment of the past if we compared the technology of the future. I therefore hope that, in the interests of human health, we will continue to move towards future equipment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1100	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1101	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Kristen! I fully agree with you that this is an important draft for national security and, in particular, with regard to Amendment 3, which adds § 873 and its first three paragraphs. It is very good that these [claims] are in this law that they are nowhere in the regulation. This is an important list and there is also such a point about high-risk hardware and software [that risk is when] the host country acts aggressively in cyberspace. Obviously, TTJA doesn't really appreciate it. Will he do so in cooperation with the RIA and the Cyber Command? In fact, we know who these countries are, but someone must also make a formal assessment so that it is legally competent and those interested cannot challenge what we say on the basis of.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1102	Thank you. I couldn't agree more. Yes, I think that partners are the RIA, who really should manage all this cyber security, our cyber capabilities [specialists] in the Defence Forces and similarly different services that [together] partner services can assess which country [is high-risk], because in the cyber field, it is always that wherever the problem comes from, it may not be the original source of this [problem]. But in general cyberspace, it is also very often known which countries contribute to different problems. This assessment can be made by our services and various partners.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1103	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1104	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I would also like to ask about the same clause. On the one hand, those who do not belong to the European Union, NATO or the OECD have been identified as high-risk countries, but there are also a number of additional clauses on what it means to have a high-risk country, including [there is a risk] if the democratic rule of law is not respected, human rights are not respected, intellectual property, personal data and business secrets are not protected, or the cyberspace is aggressive, etc. My question would be as follows: what is the Commission's general starting point? Is it that a country belongs to the European Union, NATO or OECD automatically excludes that the same country can also respond to other clauses? Perhaps it is an undemocratic country or, for other reasons, a dangerous risk country?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1105	Thank you. Well, let's just say, as I said before, that this list is possible with a guide [to determine the risk]. This assessment must be made, but I assume that the majority of these countries are, however, countries that are able to follow the same rules that apply in Europe or among NATO countries and which are economically relatively developed countries. These countries, I presume, meet [these criteria], but if any of them are to step off this path, I think they can be assessed. But I am saying that in this case, the problem is definitely bigger than the issue of hardware.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1106	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1107	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Kristen! I have a technical question. We know that it will take time for this [draft] to be adopted as it is. We planned [the] 16 with the Commission. [June], it's today, send it to third reading. Now that I'm looking at this whole process that we started ourselves, that means that it won't get to third reading before autumn. What will the launch of this process bring us?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1108	Thank you. I, as I said earlier in reply to Paul's Pulpland, am optimistic. I hope we make it. But then again, the ghost knows. In football, for example, I have failed to predict very well whether I can do better in legislation now. However, I would argue that the establishment of this framework, in order to move forward and start delivering 5G competitions, is still more essential for our public services and for the emergence of new services in this area. Secondly, in the case of the Security Partnership, at some point, our partners are actually asking how we are doing. As I mentioned, Jüri Ratas gave a hand when he met Mike Pence. I suppose that's something you might recall, asking, men and gentlemen and ladies, whether you remember or not. If you ask me if I should paint the ceiling all black, that the world will end, I don't think the world will end. If we cannot accept this [draft], I think that this bill will also work in the summer, because perhaps to your sadness, but in order to please the people, the Committee on Economic Affairs is planning to do quite a lot of work in the summer. In that case, we will use this time to improve the bill. But I hope, however, that we can do it in this form at least now. But once again, I'm optimistic, we'll see.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1109	Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1110	Thank you. You answered my questions about this bill for 14 months. Well, at first glance, it seems to be quite enough time to discuss all kinds of compensation mechanisms, etc., but, well, people have all kinds of priorities. You just mentioned in the previous response that the allies may someday ask us how we are doing. I understand that we only have a problem with one operator, Elisa, others obviously do not use this potentially dubious technology, and this operator proposed to the Commission that they could replace the technology in a few or three years. As a result, they will be given ten years. This means that for ten years we will have potentially dangerous technology on 5G networks. Does it not seem to you that this is not a very rational solution and that we do not have a very good answer for our allies?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1111	Thank you. Now, if I'm quite clear... In short, in my opinion, this transitional period is at least an attempt to choose such a way that everyone can move more or less sensibly. There was no dispute about the core grids, with 5G it is shorter [transition period], with the other a little longer. You're asking if that's enough. I think beauty is in the eyes of the viewer. I don't want to sound cliché, but I think there's no way we can get away with this technology transfer dispute, which technology fits into what, which architecture can be built on which architecture. At least I feel that way today, but I might be wrong here. And when you say it's only about one undertaking or market participant, it's not really the case. I consider it my duty to lead the Commission, and I think that all the members and officials of the Commission will do so, to meet as many market participants as possible, and we in the Commission have all heard them repeatedly. I can say that, in fact, the same legislation still concerns all market participants. All market participants have to review some technologies at some stage, some more, some less. However, the general attitude today is rather that it makes sense to move forward on this subject. I agree with you that one of the entrepreneurs thinks that it is certainly not worthwhile. I do not take it in any way arrogantly, and I say that, of course, this concern must be understood, but at this point we are in the solution where we are.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1112	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1113	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'll continue with what Tarmo Kruusimäe brought out here. That's 1247. I remember when this bill came to this Riigikogu last year, the biggest problem with this information phone was the Reform Party, because they found that there was a very serious breach of the data protection law, the personal data retention system has not been followed and they [data] are being disseminated. At the moment, it turns out that once you have reached the coalition, you will no longer have a problem on this issue. I conclude that you did not even discuss it in the Commission anymore. My question is whether there is no longer this problem, that these personal data are too much published and that it violates the rights of individuals.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1114	Thank you. I think your conclusion is not quite correct, because, as I mentioned earlier, we discussed [number] 1247 free service obligations for operators. Whether operators have to provide this service free of charge does not define the manner in which the State provides the service, which has access to [data] which services are there, whether there are services provided by the Road Administration, or whether there are no services provided by the Road Administration or any other activity. So that's why we didn't discuss it, and at least I don't think it came up this way. If you are generally dealing with hardware or legal issues, the way in which this service is managed and provided by the State is not really the subject of this draft, so we did not discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1115	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1116	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I see that according to Article 14 of the Electronic Communications Act, TTJA may refuse to grant a frequency authorisation. Paragraph 1 of the same section also specifies the cases in which that refusal is to be made. Examples of such cases are: " (1) the applicant has provided false information, (2) the applicant's activities may pose a risk to human health or the environment. " Jne. I'm not going to read it all out for the sake of time savings. However, under point 8, even if the use of radio frequencies is not effective, is refused. And my question is this: does this mean that there is no delivery of effective and suitable content or that there are technical parameters? When it comes to technical parameters, what are the technical parameters? If this is, let's say, crazy, shouldn't this bill specify this concept of effectiveness?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1117	Thank you. I can't find it now, but I say we didn't discuss it in committee. But I assume that this concept of effectiveness is rather technical, i.e. whether or not this frequency is in use. We have had a debate in the past, and this now does not have so much to do with this draft as a consequence, later on, but it has also been discussed during previous IT ministers how these frequencies are shared, how many competitions are there, whether it is for four or three pieces, etc. There has been a debate about the fact that all frequencies are actually in use rather than being taken in order to trade or play with them. But once again, I can't find it right now, so I'll check it out later.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1118	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1119	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Did the Commission also discuss the possibility of what would happen if today's technology, 5G or whatever, equipped with future communications networks, changed our ownership, for example, into the control of China's capital, and we were faced with a situation where, at worst, we had to turn them off? How do we deal with this crisis situation in the future, in what way? And who will bear the damage?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1120	Thank you. I would even say that this debate has perhaps even been one of these important pillars of the whole debate. I guess this is about today, just like it's about the future. The same possible list of potential risks may materialise in any way you have described. It can be realized, it can be realized differently, there is no doubt about it. I think it is good for the country to have the frames, so that if it materialises in any way, it can deal with it. Is it said at this point that the hardware must be changed in this case? I assume that at least this will be discussed and given some transitional periods or warnings. That is actually what this legislation is for, for such risks. And I will also mention, as I described before, in the Commission, that our recommendation is this: we will also write it in writing that it is a need for security. This does not mean that we would expect the state to start compensating in this case or whatever it is at the moment. Because neither the compensation mechanism is automatic in order to use it, but in order for the State to have it if there is a need for a faster transition in the interests of security or other interests, which could impose an additional burden on the undertaking or on anyone, even to some extent, to the middle and the final consumer. The state could have that mechanism, wouldn't it? This is the proposal we are proposing. But for the risks you're asking about, that's actually the law in the making.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1121	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1122	Thank you. I am evading the issue, and perhaps it has not been discussed at all in the Commission, but I am still asking. Years ago, during an earlier government of the Reform Party, broadband connection and the last mile were a huge issue. Then there was the Minister of the Social Democratic Party who dealt with it. Right now, it's all gone away. I see a certain parallel here. Right now we have 5G in focus and everyone is talking about: 5G, security and China and Huawei and what else. But can't it be the same thing that goes a few years and it all goes away and nothing really happens and it doesn't get out?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1123	Thank you. Well, I'd say that broadband and the last mile weren't discussed. But, of course, there hasn't been a push-off on broadband and last mile. Today we have discussed this with one market participant, and the overall attitude is that these few white areas, which are still uncovered in Estonia, still need to be covered. I think that efforts have been made by all governments, I cannot tell one from the other. Yes, okay, in the time of one of your colleagues, your former colleague, whom you mentioned, there really was confusion, isn't it? It's true. But the last mile, the high-speed Internet connection and the connection of this subject, in my opinion, has not subsided in any way. On the contrary, the last crisis has shown that it is very, very necessary in Estonia, not the other way around. On this subject, again, I would say that your colleague in Kunnas said well, I think that this is what the country needs. And it must be clear that you have this framework, you can prepare if you need to say something in the security field that fits and does not fit. It gives the country opportunities. If there were no such threats, of course, it would be better, but I think we all know there is a threat.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1124	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1125	Thank you. Dear waitress, My question is about frequency clearances. Does this law have any effect on the issue of frequency licenses? There have been problems with this in Estonia, i.e. there have been competitions, they have been cancelled and they have been challenged. Can this law also make something clearer, better, or more secure? What's the connection if it is?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1126	Thank you. Well, an important part of this law is actually dealing with 5G's different frequencies. So, yes, this law makes it better and faster and actually gives it a chance. That's why we're doing this. It also defines this framework, including the technological and hardware side, how all of this could happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1127	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1128	Thank you very much, manager. Look, good waitress, here is what has been pointed out and repeatedly emphasised in the case of this draft 301, this technological progress and how good and useful it is for us. That's one side of it. But as the Chinese say, every stick has two ends. But this isn't about the Chinese. I'm talking about the signals to the public now. Previously, we learned that the European Union has a great interest in developing this draft. We learned that the TTJA, which takes the form of the Ministry of Propaganda and Information, is very involved. But we know very little about the fact that the Ministry of the Interior is also involved with its special interests and that it has made a number of changes to this law that the public has learned about again through the public media. Through its changes, the Ministry of the Interior has started to create more and more of an opportunity to control the collection of network data on a larger scale and thereby also the penetration of the private sphere. So let me ask you this: what are the recommendations or wishes of the Ministry of the Interior that have come here, and how does this affect the collection of these data?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1129	Thank you. I will certainly correct some of the question from the very beginning. Firstly, yes, it is the transposition of the European Union directive from which it is derived. You got that right. Secondly, it is not just a transposition of the European Union directive; it is actually also a question of the security and security partnership [in relations] with our strongest partner, namely the United States. It's a matter of national self-determination. We can actually say what critical infrastructure components are and what this framework looks like. This is also a question of how the public, important and at some point very critical infrastructure works. This is a question of technological progress, for example in cases where some important equipment, including in the health field, needs to be connected. Or whatever. So in that sense it is, I would say, an important piece of legislation that we are making here. From the Ministry of the Interior, we have already asked whether there are any possible risks or disproportionate desires here, because the same concern was actually the coalition partners, I admit, one question they had on this. The answer from Raul Rik, from the point of view of cyber security and from the Commission's discussions is: no, there are no or no such requests. There is no such concern with this bill. The only one was now the last debate on the Commission, which was about the [telephone number] 1247, where there was a representative of the Ministry of the Interior whose name I do not recall immediately. I'll be later... Well, it's in the protocol. In short, we were just discussing what the cost of this possible solution might be. Unfortunately, as I described, the Legal and Analytical Department came to the conclusion that leaving the Ministry of the Interior's wishes here would be unconstitutional. And that's not how we left it here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1130	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1131	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I'm gonna ask you in a little bigger picture. For years there have been fears and various approaches to this 5G theme about how it affects humans and how it affects animals. Was there also, within the framework of this draft, going through these interest groups or talking about what possible introduction of new technology to our environment, to humans or to animals could do? And has it been sufficiently studied? It has come up from time to time, and I also had some contact with this topic as Minister of the Environment. Was this in any way handled by the Commission within the framework of this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1132	Thank you. I have just described this issue to my colleague, Riho Breivel, and to my colleague, Kaskpeit, in the same way in my reply to them. In general, we did not discuss it further within this point in the Committee on Economic Affairs, but only briefly touched on it. The knowledge of electromagnetic radiation is quite decent in Estonia and elsewhere in the world. Normally, the weakness of the net, the weakness of the 'radiation', is betrayed by the need to place [antene] quite tightly, as in the case of 5G is actually going to happen. So I think it should rather betray you that this network is significantly less exposed than any other, from the past, for example. Let us be honest that everything that concerns the radiation background and potential risks in any area is indeed a common concern between MKM and the Ministry of the Environment, but we did not discuss it here. I'll be honest with you, 5G certainly doesn't pose a threat to human health. This has been described by both scientists and fact checkers. And I think maybe it's appropriate to overconfirm it here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1133	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1134	Thank you. Dear waitress, I am pleased that the security list has become quite a long one. It's still a [big] leap forward. But I'm interested in who went to explain and who's behind the pretty good section that's here. How many explanations were heard by security authorities, and what arguments did they raise? It's a long and decent paragraph here, it's impressive if only it were followed. How many security authorities provided input into this section, which is "Requirements for communications networks and services to ensure national security"?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1135	Thank you. This list we received from Raul Rik, who, according to my best knowledge, deals with cyber security issues in MKM. And if you ask if there is any input, I remember that at least 14 months ago, when we first processed and adopted one of the draft laws here, there was input from services inside Estonia at the time. In the Commission, we did not have any counter-intelligence or foreign intelligence involved in this particular procedure, otherwise it would have been written here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1136	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1137	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, My question is maybe a little bit of a guess, but it's complicated. If these good thoughts come true in themselves, and if we are thus disturbing some well-known and strong international arena makers, has anyone appreciated any foreign policy or foreign economic opposition to us in the process? And if possible, maybe you can describe who evaluated what could be expected of us and how we reject it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1138	Thank you. A suitable question. In the Commission, we did not discuss this again in the course of this draft, because I think that the possible impact and assessment actually came from the law that we adopted here 14 months ago. I simply recall that there was a debate at the time whether there would be a blacklist, where we would formulate some producer countries or whatever means, or a white list, which we would allow, etc. We concluded that this is actually a technical activity and that the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority, with the relevant partner services and knowledge, will assess this directly to market participants. In this case, I believe that it has been moved from a political level to a level of expertise which, of course, may be subject to debate. However, if it is at the level of expertise and concerns the debate between experts and market participants on the security of critical infrastructure within the country, I dare to assess that this is below the level that could create problems in transnational communication. I expect so.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1139	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1140	Thank you. I'm coming down a little bit. Or whether it is now at a lower level, [is a question of its own]. The state or local authority may refuse to install 5G access points if they endanger the life or health of a person. We know how fierce the debate about the health risks associated with 5G has become in society. Some people are already panicking. They're taking pictures of some equipment on the roofs of all kinds of houses, and they think it's already 5G equipment that's been set up secretly and quietly. Did you have any discussion about these health risks in the Commission, too, or were you given an overview of this? This is certainly a subject that many people would like to hear about. What's the status on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1141	Thank you. I am pleased that, in the course of this debate, this issue can be reaffirmed, at least on the basis of the knowledge that the Commission has. As for the relationship between 5G and health, we had quite a brief encounter with this subject. But 5G is definitely safe for health. Electromagnetic radiation is generally well controlled. If anyone has any doubts about this, it is worthwhile, I think, to get to know, among other things, the information of Estonian scientists or fact checkers. But in this I am, yes, you agree that it's weird how you photograph really, I don't know, postage boxes or traffic cameras and they think they're 5G [equipment]. In order for the 5G network to work, it is necessary to put them close enough, and in the future, on the basis of them, I think, all sorts of sensible things can be done, technologically, including self-driving vehicles, real-time construction of different life and stress reduction systems, anything necessary for health care, right? Good connections are necessary for this. So here you can overconfirm: yes, 5G is safe. I think that every new step forward will add something to people's quality of life and not take anything away from it. And if anyone doubts that, they could try to operate a much older device, including a computer or a mobile device. This is likely to remind quite quickly why progress in science and technology is rather a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1142	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1143	Thank you. Does this amendment affect the issue of frequency licenses? In Estonia there have been problems with this for a long time, competitions have been cancelled and challenged. What difference does this law make?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1144	Thank you. That's why you're right, that's what you need. And from there, once this law is passed, the Minister will be able to act and announce these competitions. Here are long chapters on these competitions, how this might work. So far, indeed, perhaps because of good lawmaking or because of the absence of whatever it is, it has been around that over the years a number of ministers have taken all kinds of decisions, but no action has been achieved. So, in fact, the market participants are expecting these competitions to be reached, and then we can assess that, in the Committee on Economic Affairs, we have discussed in the past the number of frequencies going to the competition. Because the main debate in the public has been about whether there are three or four of them, how the competition works, etc. The frequencies are distributed more among each other and whether there are more that go to the competition or less, it is up to the Ministry to do so. It also mentioned what this possible licence price could be, etc. So, yeah, that's what he is.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1145	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1146	Good waitress! I will continue on the security issue relating to Huawe, of course. At different stages of the procedure, as I understand it, the representatives of Huawei have put forward their arguments, something I remember myself because I heard with half my ear. But why don't you remember what their arguments were? The press says that everything was a nice, very nice company, and they never had any security risks. Has Mr [Marko] Pomerants and Janek Mäggi been present as lobbyists at Huawei or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1147	I dare say that I think I have met everyone who is lobbying in this area. Well, okay, I'm exaggerating now. I'm sorry! I didn't mean to brag. Maybe there's someone I haven't met, but with the most important market players who are communications operators, I've made it my duty to communicate. I talked to one today. And I have considered it my duty to communicate, among other things, with the PR agency representing Huawi, which you mentioned, where I believe Janek Mäggi is the owner and Marko Pomerants is working there. What are their arguments? I think that their concern has rather been the predictability of the business environment and the wider world view, where there is perhaps a contradiction between the United States and China, and therefore between different producers. But this [information] is all publicly available and can be found, so I will not surprise you very much. Rather, the question is what it means, at what pace this replacement takes place and how these risks could be mitigated. But I do not think that this is a problem on the ground, because, let's say, the list that has already been mentioned here, in the case of security, comes from what may or may not be a risk.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1148	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1149	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, First of all, thank you for your comprehensive answers. I understand that this is much more comprehensive than the debate that has only taken place in the Commission. But I would ask you about Amendment 136, it is the introduction of a database of communications services and its basic regulation. Did there be any debate or questions about the communication service database in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1150	Tell me again what you asked about the change.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1151	136.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1152	136. I'll take a look, but I can't find where it is. I just have so many papers with me here that if you're referring to what page it's on, I'll find it faster.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1153	There's plenty of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1154	No, I understand you have time. Me too. But let's just save time. What page, what change do you mean? (Then Pohlak responds from the floor.) Yeah. I wonder if I don't have the material you've been given in the hall. I'll see. I have the Commission's materials here. I'll see.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1155	I think we were talking about the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1156	Yeah, I had some amendments in front of me. [Paragraph 1 of the draft law] 136: "The communication service database shall be established and the basic regulation shall be established by regulation of the Minister responsible for the field. " Yes. But what is the question about this? I think I have it right here, yeah. Okay. (Then Pohlak will comment on the floor.) No. Otherwise, I would probably know that, but no, we did not discuss this further in the Commission, at least according to my knowledge. And I would like to stress here that Kalvi Tõvi also did some working groups where I was not present. But I always attended committee discussions plus meetings with market participants. So I think our knowledge is more or less comparable, and according to my knowledge, this debate was not there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1157	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1158	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I will continue with this previous issue. Stakeholders have had concerns about their different speeds. You answered very nicely before. But is there any other interest group's concerns left, or is there generally a matter of peace in the house? As far as you know, we will not be expecting any demonstrations in the near future where protests against 5G will begin? Is it so-called off your desk and there was nothing left in the committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1159	Thank you. I hope I didn't. But we did have one appeal, if I remember correctly, it's probably in that same opinion. And it was mentioned. However, it cannot be ruled out that there will be more speeches or different attitudes on this issue. As Henn Põllaas mentioned, we do not know what the fears of humans are. I am not saying this in any way arrogantly, but I am saying that people may have concerns about it. But I think that Estonian scientists as well as journalism publications, fact checkers, have covered this subject quite thoroughly and certainly still do. If I am not mistaken, the major telecom operators have some kind of web overview of the potential risks, myths and concerns of 5G issues. I think it's been mentioned. I sincerely hope that [it is fine]. But, as you know, it is the duty of the representatives of the people to discuss [the matters] when there is a debate on this subject, so we will try to participate in it. But I am afraid that this debate is not in the Committee on Economic Affairs, but rather in the Committee on the Environment or in the Committee on Social Affairs. We obviously do not know how to add anything to this debate on a very factual basis or from the economic world, I really do.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1160	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1161	Thank you. Good Kristen, thank you for your thorough answers. But I ask again what more could Huawei and his so-called legal representatives and lobbyists do here in Estonia, say so, to protect their interests. Because they don't have any rights, but they definitely have interests. Of course, they are trying to show that they are simply an ordinary commercial company that is trying to make the greatest possible profit, etc., they have no connection with the Chinese state power or the Communist Party and all these arguments. Did you discuss what else they could do or what could be a risk here for us to suddenly achieve something or get through [push] their own interests?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1162	Thank you. Well, I'm gonna start by saying that the representatives here, the lawyers and the PR guys who represent the client, I think they're doing a very honest job. I guess our views aren't different here. It is perfectly normal to represent our interests in a democratic and perhaps capitalist world. Both the association of cyclists, the association of mothers and any company may have their own interests. It's a perfectly normal course of action. What can they do? It's not my job to assume anything here. Well, maybe it's a little bit. However, I think that a particular entrepreneur can actually use all the possibilities relating to public attitudes, which may also concern the mitigation of risks, which actually concern the same list and communication with the Office for Technical Supervision and Consumer Protection. And it is certainly [important] for legal action. If a person finds that his or her rights are disproportionately violated, either a market participant or a specific person whose technology is now affected by such decisions or at one point in time, he or she can go to court. I believe in the Estonian judicial system firmly. I think there will certainly be a right and fair decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1163	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1164	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I agree with the answer to my previous question that this is rather a technical level. But if we look at such a broader context and perhaps recent events, I think we should look at all this more broadly. I am thinking, for example, of the recent statement made by a Chinese government official. According to this statement, the era in which the world was set course in the narrow circle of the great powers of the West has been irreversibly ended. And he means the G7 summit. Is it conceivable that other our committees, such as the Committee on Foreign Affairs and perhaps the Committee on National Defence, will be involved in such sensitive matters in the future just to be better prepared?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1165	Thank you. I think that's a very wise idea. After all, we communicate [more widely], here is our contact partner MKM, but in cyber security and security they communicate with different ministries. As I mentioned, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which communicates with our partners, including security, is also involved in dealing with this agreement and all of this. If you ask whether it extends to other areas and to other committees, I will say that absolutely, there is no doubt. And I do not see any reason why this could not be discussed there or why committees could not be involved. Absolutely! It is simply my hope that the solution we have found is, above all, one based on expert debates, disputes about the quality of technology and other assessments, and is not so much the result of political and transnational diplomacy or any possible debate. It could be more like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1166	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1167	Thank you. This is a crucial security issue. My question is to you, Mr waitress, as to whether the wordings in the text of the law and the draft are in line with the communiqué of 23 September, which I concluded with Deputy Foreign Minister Keith Krachi of the United States of America, concerning the United States initiative "Clean Path" on which the Estonian case is on, and whether this is in line with the communiqué of Prime Minister Jüri Ratas and Vice-President Mike Pence of the United States, concerning the security of 5G. With both of them, Estonia has made political commitments with our largest military security ally.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1168	Thank you. All I can do is apologize for my lack of knowledge. I did not know your vital work on paving the way for this draft. Fortunately, with my limited knowledge, I knew about the meeting between Prime Minister Jüri Ratas and Mike Pence. But I'm sure I can get your book with my autograph tomorrow. Then I am aware, and the children will read it too.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1169	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1170	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I ask from the perspective of an ordinary Estonian person who sometimes uses mobile internet, sometimes calls. Certainly today, thousands of people are looking at this exciting debate and would like to know what will change for them if this bill is adopted. Still something should get better. Why don't you give me a little light?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1171	Thank you. I think that what really gets better is that when we adopt this draft, the President announces it and it becomes a law, enters into force, etc., the use of new technology and the organisation of new competitions will be possible. In the long term, this probably means that a new network will be created, with a new speed and a new level, which means that, for example, if you move or are somewhere, you can do everything you just said that you will do, and others will do better, right? This will certainly provide an opportunity, for example, to build infrastructure along the roads, and at some point we will have self-steering vehicles, for example. Perhaps it is possible to carry out other activities over this network. So I think it is for Estonia that leads to a new level in telecommunications services, to new speeds, only good. It is also important for ordinary people to know that the infrastructure that we consider so important in Estonia, i.e. the whole field of ICT, has been viewed in accordance with the interests of Estonia's national self-being and security. I think it's a very important knowledge.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1172	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1173	We have made political commitments, and I think that they are appropriate, as far as our security is concerned, as I have indicated. And now it is really important to implement it [the law] without stretching. I'm interested in the entry into force structure now. It was also under discussion by the government and in government bodies. I see here that the law is beginning to enter into force in a gradity, here is Amendment 5 and § 4 "Entry into force of the law." It's a gravitational entry into force. From what point in time will this obligation apply to operators on Estonian territory to have to pass a security test on 5G networks, where it is known that the maximum duration of use will be up to the end of 2025? When will this part of the law come into effect? This is important because then there will actually be a 'controversial moment' as to whether or not operators are challenging. Well, I guess in court, this legal structure is being tested and at least it's been warned, isn't it? It is now important that we apply this law as a mandatory imperative without stretching. But I'll make sure there's a very large cascade of different moments of entry into force.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1174	Yes, thank you! I agree with you that this is important. In fact, the date of entry into force of the draft itself is, at least presumably, 15 July 2021. These transitions that affect the core networks, that is, the nervous system or the central brain, are immediate. You mentioned the year 2025, and everything else is 2029, if I remember correctly. So that's the order. After the law has been passed, announced, etc., or enters into force, all these activities can begin. I think you yourself have said the most important thing about your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1175	Thank you very much. No more questions for the waitress. Now we can open negotiations and every member of the Riigikogu can speak for 5 + 3 minutes. The first to speak is Andrei Korobenik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1176	Thank you, good manager. If I may not use this extra time, I will limit myself to five minutes. A good colleague, Jevgeni Ossinovski, is wrong. This is not a marginal technical issue at all. I would like to remind you that we have problems here, for example, finding money for the military orchestra, but this bill talks about the potential damage of 50 million to the Estonian state. So it's not a technical issue at all. Well, we cannot rule out that ladies and gentlemen Kristen, Kaja or Andres Sutt are not in politics in 2029. You never know. But most likely officials who are the authors of this bill are still in their own jobs. It can be hoped that they will assume political responsibility if something has gone wrong. So far, this has not really happened in Estonia's history, but we may have it for the first time. We all understand that healthy mobile operators are not buying Huawei's products today. But the current proposal for market regulation, the same draft 301, seems both unfair and foolish to me at the same time. The same wolf that must not be mentioned, that is, the mobile operator Elisa must now go to court, demanding tens of millions of compensation from the state, the taxpayer. The Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs said that the compensation mechanism is intended to be dealt with, but not within the framework of this draft. The procedure has been going on for 14 months and, nevertheless, it has not come this far. Once again: instead of making agreements and replacing potentially dangerous technology over a few or three years, businesses will be brought to court and a transition period of almost ten years will be granted. For almost ten years, Estonians are allowed to use potentially dangerous technology, because no one bothered to work for a year. A good fresh writer, Urmas, can be quite disappointed. Because there has been no transition by 2025. That time is much longer. I am afraid that the authors of the draft have not appreciated enough the foreign policy breakthrough that has been going on here over the last few years. In conclusion, it seems to me that this draft is not a good example of legislation and, on behalf of the central group, I propose that the second reading be interrupted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1177	Urmas Reinsalu has come up with a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1178	I have a question about the fact that since Mr Korobenik took the opportunity to mention my name, can I now speak as a recliner right now or at the end of this entire crime scene?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1179	No, you should have two minutes on the spot as a reply. And you can give a speech for eight minutes if you want. But the line on the spot for two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1180	And that's now, isn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1181	It could be right now, yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1182	I'd like the operator to switch me to the line.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1183	Yeah, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, Urmas Reinsalu, the line, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1184	I do not think I support Andrei's conclusion regarding the interruption because it has been a long saga and there have been undoubtedly different business interests involved. Well, from an entrepreneur's point of view, it is legitimate, it is to influence, it is to try to influence politicians, it is not immoral in itself, but the state must show its political will here, and we have been dragging it down for a long time, so I certainly do not support the cut-off proposal. As far as this is concerned in 2025, I personally recall that all these stories and allegations are hypothetical. They are undoubtedly all subject to judicial review at some point in time, and it is possible to demand this under state responsibility. But since these numbers are just like that, that's where I would make a very strong reservation. I myself should not have considered it a sin to bring this time forward, but it has been a 'party compromise', whether it is a compromise between political parties or the various authorities. Andrei said that it should be interrupted in order to bring the deadline forward, and I think it would be worth considering. But it seems to me that Andrei's main battery was still about resisting the nature of this project rather than the nature of it, and I would not agree with that again.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1185	Yes, Andrei Korobeiinik also has a line. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1186	Thank you very much. I wasn't sure I had that right after the negotiation, but great news. No, I still meant that if the Estonian state intends to go this way, it could be done much more operationally. I certainly did not mean that we have to throw this draft into the trash, but rather that we could come up with a solution where, by 2025, we can really be sure that we have a secure technology in 5G networks. The fact that we have ten years of not knowing what is really dangerous. In ten years, people may be on Mars by now, but we have some kind of suspicious 5G technology. That is unfortunate. And I don't think that's a good lawmaking practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1187	And now for clarification. Andrei Korobeinik said that he was unsure of [reply] law. As far as I understand the rules, at second reading, every member of the Riigikogu has the right to give a speech and to reply once to the reply. Once. The corobeian hadn't answered before, but you see, Urmas Reinsalu has already answered the reply once, so you can't have another debate here. The word [giving] may be withdrawn, but the procedural question I must take. But let's try it so it doesn't turn into a line. Urmas.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1188	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I know you have extensive background information about previous work and life experience. I would point out that it is precisely this communiqué I have referred to and the 'Clean Path' that will enable us and, in fact, will set us the political objective of moving significantly faster than we are talking about the opportunities that the country is using. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1189	I'm not here for this discussion, I'm just suggesting that you have the opportunity to speak for eight minutes and talk about all this. It is also possible to make a speech on the ground, but in that case, the speech will be two minutes. I do not mean that this on-the-spot speech has already been made, or you will lose the opportunity to give a speech. But let's move on with the negotiations. Next up, Reuben Kaalep. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1190	Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1191	Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1192	Honourable Riigikogu! This draft has reopened a very wide range of issues, and I would like to take this opportunity to further develop the same ideas that emerged during the debate on Bill 366. Indeed, this circle of topics concerns the interaction between technology and the 21st century society and the security threats that may arise, particularly in totalitarian regimes. In the case of the Chinese Red Communist regime, Huawei is not the only example. China, for example, is having a very interesting experiment this year on digital currencies, which will lay the foundations for the total control of society. In several Chinese cities, the authorities gave up tens of millions of digital currencies, known as Renminbi, free of charge, as so-called red New Year's Packages, which can be downloaded from a smartphone. In Beijing and Suzhou city alone, the free digital money lottery released 200,000 red boxes worth 200 yuan, making about $31. And it's not just an altruistic agenda behind it. By handing out these so-called red packets, the Chinese Government will have the opportunity to use new technology, which could soon lead to the introduction of the world's first complete digital currency and lay down future technical standards for analogous projects. It is also interesting in this experiment that the soon-to-be-introduced digital yuan is accompanied by the "best-before-date," after which the money in the account is programmed to be erased from the account. It will in the past make money-owners citizens merely money users whose consumption behaviour is entirely under the control and direction of the central government. The Chinese Central Bank would issue a digital yuan through commercial banks with the capacity to carry out customer background checks, and a digital yuan would be used through digital wallets, which would be essentially a licensed phone application of the Chinese Central Bank. Such a programmed currency, each size of which would have an identifiable owner, would be under the watchful eye of an almighty central bank capable of directing citizens' consumption behaviour not only in the role of the last resort but, among other things, in the role of the latter consumer. The introduction of the digital yuan will give the Central Bank of China the greater role that the smaller part of the Chinese economy represents in terms of foreign trade. Now, in order to expand this issue once again, I would like to highlight the technological sphere as one of the most philosophical thinkers Dmitri Orlov's thoughts. This is a Russian scientist, engineer and futurologist living in the United States, who published the book Shrinking the Technosphere in 2016. Two years ago, an interview appeared with him, which is to be heard in SoundCloud, where he said: "... there are systems that people have developed in spite of personal or group interests and that function as emergent intelligence. The technosphere is a whole of certain types of man-made, but out of the human will, systems that increasingly dominate human lives, being less and less man-controlled. [---] Standardisation of everything and everyone is a sine qua non for effective control of human society. As far as the migration crisis is concerned, the goal of once again matching the technosphere with the aim of doing everything, including human nature, is to standardise that there exists a certain "universe humanity" and that human rights are above basically everything. All must be treated in the same way, regardless of how their ancestors lived and the conditions inherent to a particular ethnic-cultural group. The technology places everything in a standardised group, in which everyone is forced to submit to the same bureaucratic procedure, that is the purpose of the technosphere. [---] The technosis is quite robust in the sense that it's difficult to lose. No one can do that. There's no stop button on the technosphere. It marches blindly until something catastrophic happens. Disasters are encoded in the technosphere because, although the technosphere has some intelligence (in terms of purpose), it has no broader intelligence. Simply put, the technosphere is an idiotic genius. It is unable to grasp the physical limits of its growth and spread. It lacks the means to estimate declining investment revenues from oil and gas operations, the use of the biosphere as a sink or any other problem that may arise. Nor does it perceive the limits of the technology, the main prerequisite of the tech-sphere, is that the new technology is always better than the old one and that more technology is better than less. Therefore, solving any problem in the technological sphere is equivalent to using more technology, even if the technology itself is the root cause of the problem. [---] There are endless possibilities for abuse of the system here. People can be led like sheep when they become passive. Any effective social rebellion is easy to suppress in technodystopia. However, there are also good aspects of preventing crime, for example. The negative aspects have a lot to do with what giant corporations can do. This is much more likely to happen in countries where the government is no longer able to control large companies, such as the United States. The U.S. government has only minimal power over Google or Facebook, which in some cases blend into a monolithic whole with a federal state apparatus. Especially security agencies." These were then quotations from Dmitri Orlov, a Russian scientist, engineer and futurologist living in the United States. To conclude with another quote from the classic, I would also quote Martin Heidegger, the greatest thinker of the 20th century, whom I have quoted in my foreign policy speeches here on the remote. He said: "We are bound by technology, whether we adore it or rebel against it. But we will surrender ourselves to this dominance in the most helpless way if we treat technology as something neutral. This approach completely conceals the nature of technology from us. " Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1193	Riho Brevel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1194	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good members of the Riigikogu and everyone who listens to us! What the previous speaker said is a serious theoretical approach to technology. I think I'm a little bit, I want to be on the ground with two legs. That's why I think there's a lot of theories that predict the end of the world and one day they'll come true anyway. But we want to live as long as life is given, so we stand on two legs and think about how to make our lives better and make our lives better every day. I still want to come to the law we're talking about today. We have discussed this at length and widely in the Commission, looking backwards from the front and forwards from the back. And what I'm trying to say is, to a large extent, this issue is still what we need to move on with. Either we move today or we move tomorrow, but we can't give up this technology. And if we don't run the technology, it's gonna lead us. Across Europe, several countries have already adopted laws, as well as their respective directions. Of course, there are problems here, whether it is the same as compensation for communications equipment, because it goes against our constitution, because we cannot privatise property, how to say, without democratically approaching it. Finland has found its way to this end, and all of this is included in their law. Of course, we have not yet reached an agreement. Yeah, you could say it has to be dealt with. We certainly have to deal with it, and we will certainly continue to deal with it. It doesn't matter who makes up the government. Today he is, tomorrow he is, but the way to say it, law projects must still be legalized today, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. Nobel invented the dynamite and it has done a lot of evil, but it wasn't meant to be evil. We can also say exactly that any such advanced technology could in the future create a big bang, and it could really destroy all humankind or half humankind. But that is what democratic processes are for so that we can follow these things. Let's sit down, discuss and adopt the best solutions we know. It's not possible that we can see everything ahead. As Leo Kunnas says, in fact, this is the security side that has been brought here. That is why we need to look at these things from the security side. And I'd say that's exactly what's inside the law. Of course, the bottlenecks noted by Urmas Reitelmann, or even the problems mentioned by Kalle Grünthal, are also serious. But we'll get over them all if we discuss these things together and decide together. We'll reject it if we have to. But also in rejecting, we need to be smart and know if this moment is today. Maybe it's tomorrow. So I call on everyone - officials, members of the Riigikogu, politicians and society - to think constructively about the problems [and find solutions] that are at the forefront. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1195	Thank you very much. Leo Kunnas, would you like a reply?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1196	Yes, I would. I wouldn't agree with you, Riho, that it should be rejected now or in the future. This is a very important law, indeed, also from the point of view of our security. In essence, without the security of communication systems, we will not be able to engage in military cooperation or any other remarkable cooperation with the United States, which is our main military ally. Of course, the military weight of the United States in the world has decreased, but I do not agree with the idea that it has now disappeared or that the United States should give in to China or retreat to something. In fact, the security aspect of this law lies in a slightly broader context. It is easy for us: when we see the conflict between the United States and China, it is very clear to us whose side we are on. Here we will not be able to go down the path of a European country that has essentially ignored this conflict. This conflict cannot be ignored or ignored by China's influence. But if I get a chance to give a speech, I'll be able to talk a little bit more about the Chinese influence and the 5G development of Chinese companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1197	Thank you. Now Riho Breivel wants a reply. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1198	Yes, since Leo mentioned me again, I want to say: I agree. I'm not saying we have to reject it. I say you have to look at it wisely and think about it. We must not make any decisions on emotions, but we must always make decisions with reason. We often get emotional, and then we get into a fight about nothing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1199	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1200	Ladies and gentlemen, Good President! Dear technical staff! We are dealing with a draft law amending the Law on Electronic Communications, the Building Act and the Law on State Fees, which is, as you have all seen, extremely voluminous. Of course, our office will not allow this to be dealt with superficially. On the contrary, this should be fully explored and analysed. Each phenomenon can actually be analysed by two methods, at least two. The first method I would call morphological, although this is not a very precise term. Urmas Reitelmann may not accept my term in this case. But what I mean by that is that this phenomenon can be analyzed on the basis of its current state, or static, i.e. the way it's built up right now. Another way to analyze a phenomenon and, of course, the process is by genesis, that is dynamic. This means that we are looking at the phenomenon of its formation and development, how it has progressed. And, of course, as politicians, we should not look at it narrowly, we should not look at it from a 'frog' perspective, we should look at it widely, along with the background, and we should also look at what coincidences it has caused. As a professional historian, I would like to analyse the dissemination on a Genesis-based basis. Ladies and gentlemen, At this point, I must tell you first of all that I do not want to use the word'revolution' in the newscast as a result of the telegraph machine, which was invented by Samuel Morse in 1837. Why he caused the upheaval, we ask, and that is a pertinent question. The reason for this was that as a result of the further development of the technology based on the telegraph machine, the information could be spread more quickly than a person moved. Let's put aside, say, jungle drums or, as we know, smoke-transmitted information, but on a technology-based or more sophisticated technology basis, the upheaval is 1837 and Samuel Morse. It was not long before the first telegraph line was opened between Washington and Baltimore in 1844. This new communication system spread extremely fast in the United States. In 1861, in the United States, the number of telegraph lines was already 80,000 miles [80,000 km]. I recall what happened in 1861 in Russia. Losing serfdom. You weren't wrong. Look at the contrast between Tsar Russia and the United States in the second half of the 19th century. There was no such contrast between the United States and Western Europe because the construction of telegraph lines started in Europe as early as 1846. And again correctly guessed those who were thinking along with me, and it began in Britain. In 1851, a cable cable was placed in the Tower Strait. I'm asking for three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1201	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1202	And 20 years later, a transatlantic telegraph line went into operation. In 1871, what does this year's number associate you with? With the Paris Community for those who have still studied in Soviet times. But perhaps this date is actually more important than this year's connection between Australia and the United Kingdom. It passed across Asia and the continent of Europe, as far as possible. Nevertheless, even at the end of the 19th century, it took several days to reach Australia on a telegram from Europe. Several days. And the 20-word message cost 10 dollars, it was at the end of the 19th century, which was more than the average monthly salary of the Western European. Now, at the beginning of the 20th century, two cables were installed in the Pacific, one of which, you can imagine, connected Canada to Australia (both British Dominicans), and the other joined the United States with China. You see, it was all very fast. In 1918, even during the war, during World War I, technological progress did not stop. Some say maybe it was because of this war that it picked up. In any case, in 1918, there were 52,1000 km of underwater television graphics in the world, mainly connecting ports. Of course, cables continued to be installed on land as well. The next revolutionary invention in the field of communication was the telephone. It was invented in 1861, and this idea was presented by Johann Philipp Reis. Later Alexander Graham Bell supplemented it, as you know, and perhaps less is known to Elisha Gray. In 1876, London and Paris were connected by telephone lines, and by the early 20th century, the United States telegraph and television company had 855,000 customers. I don't want to spend any more of your time right now. If I am able, I will continue with this in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1203	Thank you very much. Looks like there's a line request. First Kalle Grünthal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1204	Thank you, Mr President. Since Mr Breivel mentioned my name in his speech, I would like to ask for the possibility of a two-minute reply on the spot.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1205	Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1206	Thank you. Mr Breivel pointed out that my questions concerning the provision of communications networks and services, and in particular their security, were very relevant. I always try to be reasonable and impartial, and that is why, of course, I must also say congratulations to Kristen Michal, who presented this bill. For me, it was extremely nice compared to Kaja Kallas, how thoroughly and accurately Kristen Michal explained everything. There was no ironing, and I really commend Kristen for that. There is still a difference between man and man. But of course, it's clear that sometimes the questions are really complicated. And I fully congratulate Kristen, for example, on the fact that when she was in trouble with a few questions, she simply said it out loud. However, from his speech or his presentation, this topic still remained, let us say that the requirements for ensuring communications networks and services and national security are extremely important, must be met and monitored. And maybe, since I'm going to go there soon to talk about the remote, I'm not going to talk about it anymore. I can make my point when there's a logical sequence in this speech that I want to report. So thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1207	Please! Urmas Reitelmann, is there a request for a reply?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1208	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Since Mr Jaak White mentioned my name, I must tell him that I do not have any morphological accusations to Mr White, I agree with him 100%. But now when I think of some of the thoughts left in the air in this hall, this unfortunate 5G technology was said to be some horrible secret weapon against humanity that radiates us from above and below and bakes us in close contact. I don't know, as much as I've read, it seems to me that 5G technology is still a platform that uses different technologies. 5G technology is using 4G technology, I get it. Mr. Michal's nodding, so I'm on the right track. However, I do think that not the legislator, but the government should shed some light on people in this area. I understand some people may already have some sort of panicky fear of progress. And it's basically a matter of faith. Indeed, if you see an unknown lung on a rooftop somewhere, they'll eavesdrop and radiate a little bit. We could discuss these things calmly and explain them to people. Not everyone has been through a very strong physics teacher in high school. We're still going to take long steps, and this 5G is definitely extremely useful to us, but take the fears down first.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1209	Yeah, and in some cases a good physics teacher doesn't even help. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1210	Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin my speech by moving to the Stone Age first. Not quite the Stone Age, of course, but the Stone Age of this electronic communications. And my first contact with not quite electronic communication, but with hardware and to a certain extent software took place in the late 1980s, when Järvamaa Hunting Club had such an interesting apparatus as the computer Juku, designed by researchers of the University of Tartu. And that Juku was the kind of bull thing you could put in storage records and see what you had there. But since it was an extremely complex apparatus, the manager of the hunting club, Mr. Gull, finally gave up all this trouble and still went over to the paper-pen because it turned out to be a lot faster. But, of course, the technique developed, and in the mid-1990s, the personal computer had already become relatively commonplace. Well, not quite normal, but it's come like this, and most of the companies already got a computer for their prestige. Of course, there were some funny teeth that bought computers. They thought they were gonna buy a hundred computers, and then they'd sell on in five years. But, of course, they got stuck in a bucket, because in the meantime, science progressed and these investment computers just didn't fit anywhere anymore and basically went to the movie chamber. Even then, such interesting phenomena arose as the arrival of computers. One of them was that computer viruses began to move along with programs. And I remember very clearly when there was a case in America where a whole group of Americans, including an Estonian who had managed to get there, wrestled by the fact that the computer didn't start. When the Estonian came there, he saw that there was a text on the screen in a clean, servant language that I wanted candy. And then the Estonian went red in his face, but printed the word "candy" and then the computer opened up. It was like this, let's say, the first case that caught my eye. The second case was where the computer was switched off when some specific time and date arrived. This story was also described quite thoroughly in the press and was asked for help. Then the advice was to change the date, but of course the gentleman couldn't do it because it was complicated. At one point, they asked what happened. The answer was, "Oh, I got nothing, I was late." My first contact with the computer was in 1995 or 1996, and I don't remember exactly. Then it was acquired, and I was right as I say, over the village man, because I still had my own personal computer. That was such a big dick. At work, I used the law program, Lex, to get the new legislation out of there. Of course, and then I couldn't leave the expensive machine at work, so I carried it home last night and played a game like Panzer 1 or 2, I think it was. At one point, there was this horrible sign hanging from a four-pointed Skitter that shoved his feet. And English says your computer's infected with the C.I.H. virus. Nothing, I went to get help, they took care of that mistake, and that's how that computer became a living animal again. Now the technology has evolved so far and so high, where the common citizen's mind no longer stands. However, those who are already born with a so-called ponytail and are capable of picking up different firewalls, virus shields, etc., built to protect the computer, are still taking over the subject. This is also the reason why the Government of the Republic has provided for this draft to ensure that electronic communications comply with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a European Electronic Communications Directive with a transposition deadline of 21 December 2020. The fact that it was very serious has already shown that when this draft came on the agenda, representatives of the national power structures came from our group, who explained very specifically why such a law was needed, in order to protect and ensure the security of the country. There was no two-way thinking at all. This was not a political bill at all. The fact that this matter was very serious also showed that the Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Association, Levikom Eesti OÜ and Tele2 Eesti AS and the Estonian Cities and Valdade Association were also notified of the procedure of this draft. Of course, it wasn't all that. Tele2 Eesti AS, MTÜ Internet Society Estonia, Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Association, Estonian Cities and Valdade Association, Law Firm COBALT OÜ, Elisa Eesti, Telia and Law Firm LEXTAL OÜ and MTÜ Kogu Häigusku. So why the special attention to this bill? In fact, however, it is answered by § 873 of the same Act, "Requirements for communications networks and services to ensure national security', which is intended to supplement this draft. And that is the moments that each country must actually ensure in order to ensure that the hardware or software used on the communications network does not endanger national security. Take, for example, the fact that cyber attacks on authorities have been reported. Otherwise, there wouldn't be a cyber defence center in the military. I believe that Alar Laneman, who is also in this Chamber, knows a great deal about this matter. I'm sure he can talk about it very, very accurately. Of course, it cannot be irrelevant that, when assessing high hardware and software, information on who is the manufacturer and the provider of the maintenance or support service must also be taken into account. I think a member of the party, Rene Chef, is now the man who is well-versed in these matters. And I think he can say something very constructive about it when he gets on the phone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1211	Thank you. Alar Laneman must have a line.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1212	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. It is extremely good that the previous speaker mentioned cyber defence and cyber[defence] centre, because very little is known about the story of how this centre started in Estonia. We rather know his role now and his role in Estonian national defence, but it started because of the initiative of several quite few young men and officers. And I have to admit that general support in the initial phase, when this centre was established at the headquarters and the Ministry of Defence, was not the most favorable. It was not because of opposition in substance, but rather because it was not perceived how important this area was. It is a good place to salute our late colleague, Johannes Kerd, who carried it. It is a pleasure to mention that Raul Rikk, who worked on this bill, was also one of those who carried it. So this is a classic textbook example where we should learn and admit not only from our own mistakes but also from success stories: every idea is worth considering and examining it thoroughly. And sometimes the least promising idea can come from a very worthy and important project for the country. So I'm grateful to Kalle for mentioning it, and I got a chance to talk about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1213	Rene Chef, the line?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1214	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I would like to thank my good colleague, Kalle Grünthal, for recalling this good word. I'm sure that's what we're having here today in the next speeches will be dissected from different angles.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1215	Let's get back to the calls. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1216	Thank you, manager. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1217	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1218	I'll start with the honors. There has been a lot of criticism today, the walls of this house have heard a lot of things, they have heard inaccuracies, wrestling, misleading, and also acute questions. But for a change, there is certainly a need for praise. I mean, we were in a situation where this Huawei theme was up for a long time. There were tensions, including among politicians, which even ended up in the fact that some retired politicians became the sound pipes of Huawei. This is, in my view, a matter of concern, knowing the security and security risks associated with Huawei and how keenly our allies raise these issues. I am not only talking about Trump, who made serious criticism of China, including the massive theft of technology, which China has been allowed to do quite loosely in the United States, so billions of US technology has moved into the hands of the Chinese Communist Party. I would say that there are two sides: there are those who have always allowed China to wear technology very comfortably. Very comfortable! During Obama's reign, it was like a lousy betrayal. But even now, at least in the words of the new president, President Joe Biden has said that he is forbidding investment in 59 Chinese companies, including Huawei. So US investments in these companies are limited. And this is a very serious signal. Several presidents have gone this way. And do we not keep our ears open to the very serious messages of our allies? Who, then, is our most important NATO partner? You don't have to think about it twice. So Washington put Huawei on the blacklist, and many others have done the same for national security reasons and, of course, turned him off from 5G developments. I thank my groupmates, who have always warned about the Huawei issue and about the dangers of China. Mart Helme, in his orientalist work and as a good Eastern expert, has pointed out at any time that there is danger. It's not an innocent technological development. The same has been said by the officers of our headquarters. So this is serious. Alar Laneman has just pointed out the words of Johannes Kerd. That's a very good point. Johannes Kert also repeated to me several times here in the hallway conversations, what a big problem that is. I think Henn Põlluaas will also remember these conversations and these threat assessments. Dear Reformers, remember this carefully! Don't loosen your belt! Remember the legacy of Johannes Kerd, who was still a great man in your party. Let me give you a few more examples. Warsaw is preparing to correct cyber security laws. And, of course, this probably means that Huawei will be ruled out in the same way in the development of 5G networks. And what's to be surprised is that several Chinese spies were caught there. I don't know if it's mentioned here today, but we're front-line guys. Chinese spy in Estonia on 2 March, fresh topic. You should talk about it more and think about how great the Confucius Institute works here and there. Some specialists have said that the Confucius Institute is an instrument of soft power in China, but not only, allegedly also an intelligence instrument. In any case, our orientalists have written a seriously concerned letter a few years ago. This was on 21 November 2019 when they signed a critical letter. No, I'll fix it. That date was when the Vice Rector for University Development and Huawei signed a treaty of common intent. The orientalist opinion immediately came up with that. What did the orientalists say? "In the case of Huawei, one cannot be certain and the producer has not convincingly demonstrated that it does not pursue its activities in accordance with, inter alia, the State Intelligence Act of China (which has been in force since June 2017) on the basis of which "all Chinese organisations and citizens must act in accordance with this law and, where appropriate, cooperate with the State Intelligence Authorities. It is the duty of the State to ensure that all parties complying with the Intelligence Act, Chinese organisations and citizens are protected." " Johannes Kert would immediately set the red lights on. China's influence mostly follows a rather similar pattern and is geared towards the same goals. Thus, the orientalists of the University of Tartu indicated that it could also be an attempt in universities to infiltrate a sector or a field of science. Well, technology isn't one of those. And they said that China's goals were two-way. First, the aim is to gain influence, control and to obtain inside information about the activities of a university or organisation. The methodology is similar. And here we get to the other end of the corona virus problem set. There are interesting references to industrial espionage, scientific espionage, certain information from Canadian laboratories that was taken to Chinese research institutions. We have seen these reports and read the articles. I hope that there will also be deeper progress on this issue. Theft of technology plus all possible espionage opportunities [is] that technology controlled by the Chinese Communist Party would allow. So here this amendment is remarkable and I hope that it will work, essentially, and the honourable former Member of the Riigikogu Pomerants will think carefully about whose interests he will then represent. The Romans used to say money doesn't stink, but I think it does. I congratulate the progress on this draft and support this amendment in any case. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1219	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1220	Thank you for your efforts.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1221	Now Mart Helmel has a line. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1222	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Since Anti Poolamets mainly spoke about China, Chinese intelligence and related matters, I recall, as an active member of the Estonian orientalism of his time, that in the early 1990s there was an idea to establish the Far East Institute in Estonia, the Institute for Research on Far East Culture and Politics. Unfortunately, this idea did not come true because there was neither political nor financial nor academic support. But I dare say that this was an idea far ahead of my time. If we had a institute that had already trained specialists in the last 30 or 20 years, no 30 years, then we would not be as helpless on our Far East, China and also on Huawei technology issues as we are now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1223	Thank you. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1224	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, of course, I want to thank Kristen very seriously in the sense that the answers received gave a pretty good overview and described what it is. Indeed, I join these sentiments. I'm glad Kristen came here to talk about it and gave me a good picture. But it doesn't make things easier for us. Friends, we, as legislators, have been faced with some strange task, perhaps from some point of view, that we must adopt legislation that regulates the width of the cat's paw, the collective agreement and the depth of the water. If we look at this specific act, I mean our 301 SEs, it is also said here that it is a draft law amending the Law on Electronic Communications, the Building Code and the Law on State Fees initiated by the Government of the Republic. And that's the problem, actually. This is actually a very deep problem, and it creates a whole bunch of ambivalentity in this same act. Indeed, I can agree with my good colleagues here in the Riigikogu who say that there is a lot of remarkable in this act that deserves to be supported. I do not want to argue with my colleagues here, because what is connected with security has been repeatedly emphasised today, perhaps too much and perhaps even misleadingly a little, in some respects, worth supporting. But apart from the fact that we talked long and wide about 5G, Huaweis and those antennas that we don't have to fear, we've been exposed to the fact that in this bunch we're going to vote on here today, there's also talk about TTJA, which is an increasing and growing agency. It will, as I said in my questions, soon take the size of the Ministry of Information and Propaganda, because indeed, all sorts of different things can be put on him. It's in this law too. At the same time, we find out that the Department of the Interior has also put their little fingers in pretty deep and is looking for more accessories here. Our public media are, well, now it cannot be said that, on a massive scale, but on a number of points, the public has paid attention to the fact that there are nuances to be feared and considered. The reference is that perhaps it can be said that the improvements introduced here and initiated by the Ministry of the Interior are trying to gain more and more control over certain network data. This raises questions or questions about the intrusion into the privacy sphere. Maybe I want to get there because, as you can see, the ambivalence is in this act. I know quite firmly that in my own good group, very many ladies and gentlemen are strongly in favour of this draft. But I know there's a hesitant look. And I myself am hesitant, although I would like to support you in part. Then why can't we, in our legislation, make sure that, like pieces, it takes more or less at once, that this one direction, one thing that is specifically linked to something, is clear and understandable, so that we can either fully support it or not support it. In this case, it's crazy. For me, it's starting from when I read that all this... I'll take three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1225	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1226	... behind the triangulation is to a large extent a European directive, that is where it begins. Well, then comes in Huawei, then comes in guarantee, then comes in allies, intelligence and 5G. In short, it is difficult to do the law correctly, politely, in a clear and understandable way. Then it's understandable why there's this ambivalence. And our own colleagues, Kalle Grünthal and Martin Helme, have also referred to these dangers. They have referred to these circumstances. Once again, I stress that this does not mean that we are against this law, but I do not dare to say with certainty that we are all supporters of this bill. I just want to finish by saying, as Rihogi emphasised here: friends, let us be balanced, let us think about it, let us consider it, and let us be sure that it is good for us. And if you are convinced that this is good, then support, but if you are not convinced, do not support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1227	Thank you. At the beginning of the negotiations, I have already spoken about this once, but I will remind you once again that in the course of the negotiations, the word can only be spoken once in a reply. Kalle Grünthal has already received word once in a reply, so I can't give any more now. Now for the next call. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1228	President-in-Office of the Council. Colleagues! I'm not focusing on this bill. This bill is, how I say, an attempt to adapt to the inevitable. This bill is a certificate of the shipwreck of the Estonian e-governance. We're floating in the vast ocean, we're clinging to a capsized lifeboat, and we're convinced that this will finally get us somewhere on the beach. What I want to say about these metaphors and fictional comparisons is that Estonia is not an e-Tiger. Estonia is not any kind, I cannot say, IT heerold in the world. We are not a pioneer; we are not an e-governance; we do not have any impeccable digital society. We could see that when we had long-distance sessions, and we were in trouble with the loss of communication, the sound echoing, and everything else. Re-votes had to be made, not for procedural reasons, but for purely technical reasons. Estonia is not a digital e-governance. And it's inevitable. As a man who lived long enough in the world, I have been able to experience, on several occasions, how Estonia makes a quick start, attracts a certain head start, but our resource, demographic, intellectual, material and financial, is limited. It's very limited, it's very small. And then, when the big ones get the straps on their machine, it takes them time, but when they get the machine going, they pass us. We're like a marathon runner that Porsche Cayenne or some Porsche 911 or whatever goes by. [[Imitates the sound of a flying vehicle. The hall has heard the signature of the flag landing in the Long Hermann Tower.]] That's a beautiful melody! And that is what we should stick to and that we should pay more attention to: national culture, our music culture. As an e-state, we cannot keep up with China; as an e-state, we cannot keep up with the United States. We cannot even keep up with Russia, because their resources are more often and more often. What we can do, and what we will do with this bill, is to adapt to the situation. However, it is necessary to adapt to the situation so that this adaptation does not take place under the conditions of our national economy and the needs of our citizens, not by special services, not by some deep state. It seems to me that, from this point of view, this draft has serious shortcomings. And it's symptomatic again. Because every time we fall under the strongest of us in free competition, we try to compensate for this downfall by playing the advantage of some kind of encapsulation and some sort of public or less public-disciplined power of social life. We are trying to compensate for this backwardness by creating control and orientation in society. Actually, it doesn't compensate for anything. We're creating an illusion. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1229	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1230	We are creating an illusion, as if by taking these steps we were actually competitive. I won't. What we have to do has been unfinished for a long time. And it is a much more diverse, versatile and complex task in front of all Estonian governments, no matter what kind of parties these governments are made up of. This is to cover our small territory with infrastructure, which offers the opportunity to make maximum use of the entire territory and the entire population potential. We're not gonna do it, we haven't done it. After all, we once had a mayor and a Minister of the Interior who said publicly that life in other parts of Estonia is meaningless and pointless and it makes sense for everyone to move together to Tallinn. Now the same illusion is being created, by the way, by selling either unfeasible, unopposed or at least not as prospective projects as Rail Baltic and Tallinna-Helsingi tunnel. The sale of the Helsinki tunnel is the sale of air at all. There's nothing back here. There's only some sort of wishful thinking about the Finnish Bridge. By the way, the Finnish bridge is one-way. This is the movement of Estonian workers to and from Finland to their families, but not the other way around. We have seen this, and we are seeing it now, with regard to labour migration and the corona restrictions that Finland applies to Estonia without paying attention to our steps. The Finnish bridge does not exist. The Finnish bridge is a one-line running channel to work in Finland and back with money to the Estonian family. And that is what we see in all the rural areas of Estonia that have been abandoned and where people have fled. That's exactly what I'm talking about. The aim of this draft also does not have to be an additional mandate for the TTJA, with the granting of the extended additional powers, but must be to cover the whole of Estonia with infrastructure, including the educational infrastructure of critical importance, so that people can live meaningful lives and harness their potential in the interests of themselves, their family, their community and their country where they like to live, not where they are inevitably forced to live. These are the points of contact with this bill. But I didn't want to go through with this bill and start following by section here. I wanted to put this bill in a broader context. And this broader context is this: let's not deceive ourselves. Let's not fool ourselves by being some kind of digital superpower, because that's not what we are. Let's not fool ourselves by having a resource to compete with the Chinese. No, it's not. Let us not deceive ourselves that we can avoid the Huawi if not even the Germans, the French, the English, and ultimately the Americans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1231	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1232	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, The subject we are talking about here is very important and, in fact, very serious. But I would start with such a slightly humorous moment, with a humorous reminder from the time I was the chairman of the Riigikogu and the Chinese embassy celebrated the 70th anniversary of the People's Republic of China very grandly. At the reception, I was surrounded by five or six Chinese gentlemen, as well as one of their representatives on the ground. It was representatives of Huawei who tried very, very consistently and very intrusively to make it clear to me how good this Huawei is, how there are no dangers to fear, and that all these are merely heightened fears. Since they were literally extremely intrusive, I tried to tear myself apart from them, but it only worked out for a moment, because in that crowd they soon found me again and surrounded me. In the end, the movement was like the end of the Benny Hill show, where I dodged the hambo-boo for them, and all that goose-boo was on my tail. But there isn't much more humor and fun in this subject. Because what is 5G? It's a high frequency band, and there's a lot of these frequencies, incomparably more than 4G. And on top of that, it's extremely fast, extremely high data capacity. Figuratively speaking, about a million smartphones or any other smart device could fit in one square kilometre. And when we extend it to Europe, for example, we are already talking, I don't know, tens of billions, or even hundreds of billions, are out of bounds. This network is so efficient that it can actually transfer data that we have considered as, say, human or animal perceptions. At one good point, it is also possible to transfer flavors and smells and temperatures and everything else. To do what we really can't imagine today. The possibilities are limitless and 5G has come to stay, there is no doubt about that. Now it is only a question of how and how safely we can make use of it. Unfortunately, there are few 5G technology providers in the world and only a few of them are located in Europe. One of the best known is Huawei, which is actually the whole thing around, because China is... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1233	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1234	... issued a law that whoever owns a company, Huawei is trying to make it clear that it is not State-owned, but China has the right to include its hardware or software in each product, and that makes it cautious. All the more so since Huawei or the 5G network at all is much more difficult to ensure security because there are a lot of antennas, a lot of different components, apparatus. He is highly dependent on software, and it makes the issue of security extremely important, because all data communication, all security issues in the banking state, our whatever industrial management processes, are all moving there. And the United States has seen a very high risk in Huaweis precisely because of this Chinese connection. Estonia has also signed a declaration with the US. The European Union has highlighted very serious security risks and problems in its reports. And now the draft that we have on this table today is actually the result of the measures taken or proposed by the European Union to mitigate these risks. And in this respect, this draft is very welcome, especially with regard to all possible security risks, because it is always better to prevent potential threats when they arrive at our destination. But, of course, it has something to do with, like I said, everything that concerns us. This also gives rise to a direct link to the trends that we already see here in Estonia, also with regard to the draft ABIS and the creation of a super-data base, because in China, this monitoring system is already working. This is only one step if the big brother of 5G opens his watchful eye in Estonia as well. And then there will be no more moments, no more moments, when we are not under control, because it may not only be used by security cameras on a street corner or border crossings, but it can also be done by television, refrigerator or any apparatus at home that is connected to that network. We are honest people, we have nothing to be afraid of, yet it loses the last of its privacy. Imagine if it's at national level. It is no longer necessary to search for Simme, Dressene, or anyone who would betray their country because, in the case of sufficient skills and knowledge, especially when the manufacturer has also been able to plant some hardware or software in some equipment, there is no secret at all. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Thank you. The bell is ringing, but basically I support this bill. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1235	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1236	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll pick up where the previous speaker left off. I also feel that this bill can be supported and that we are on the right track with this bill. However, I reserve the right to share some of the comments and comments that I have in connection with this draft. In a way, he's like a good kind of a sorry for the non-Estonian expression about the case study, how could our house more often drafts be born. This topic is not easy, although it may seem very technical. Here technical issues, as well as economic issues, are interlinked with security and politics. I have had some contacts in the past with this issue and with this area in general. In this sense, it is very sympathetic that in a quite technical and complex environment, even emotionally and in an emotionally charged atmosphere of business struggles, it has been possible to involve a wide range of relevant actors. National experts responsible for security have also been involved. We have such a good saying, where the smoke, there's fire. Maybe the suspicions that have been in this background aren't in vain. But in any case, the state has acted in substance, in wisdom and in a sensible way in developing this bill. Separately, I will make a small thank-you to the waitress, because the answers to the questions were substantive, I would say that in a good tone and despite the current situation we have today, stylish. So thank you very much. Of course, it determines the tone of how these questions come to be. I think this is a good example, which is why this comparison with case study. I would like to emphasise specifically what I think came out here, perhaps there are no problems here. But I guess we always have to think about the complicated issues that we don't know. That's usually the most difficult question. I think we've formulated basic doubts or at least sensed them. For example, the list of security aspects was very impressive. But when we look at economic interests and security interests, we see that, first of all, there is a big difference between, for example, how we are moving to the west and how we are doing in another culture. What we have only and purely economic and business interests, and the clash and struggle of business interests, is still very strongly linked to security issues elsewhere. For example, if you read even the documents of our eastern neighbour, about the strategic orientations in the country's fuel policy, it has been explicitly mentioned that they relate to security issues. In the West, these are rather economic issues. The economy serves security and security, in turn, supports economic struggle. In this sense, China, which has been mentioned repeatedly here, is perhaps different, that it has said quite openly, and also the last statement made by the officials of the London Embassy, says that the time of the great powers of the West is coming to an end. Can I have a few more minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1237	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1238	Thank you. This is not a sign that China is now working more openly, but rather a sign that it has already felt its strength. And it has given us the opportunity to dictate or say it publicly. Perhaps here we are dealing with a situation where, in some ways, the connection with the country is being concealed. They try to play by Western rules, to disguise it as a struggle for business interests, but as a result, their soft power and perhaps some kind of technical control will expand. We have heard in various reports how many hidden entrances have been built somewhere in existing [systems] in the countries. Unfortunately, I don't have any direct references. This will achieve economic impact. And if it is on a sufficient level, it can, as we have seen, have an impact on politics. Although it is quite peculiar, it is rather such a soft effect, but the impact is an impact and it seeks change. So I think that the way this bill has been applied to work is not viewed as purely technical or some kind of communication mathematics, we haven't looked at it apart from real life, is a smart approach. We must realise that all these economic issues in Estonia's matters are also always broader • every economic issue in Estonia is also a tax issue, as well as a question of regional policy. And when we are dealing with foreign partners, he is also a foreign policy and perhaps a security issue. That's why this whole evening was very educational for me, and that's why I used the expression that it's kind of a case study. I wish we could learn more about the power and experience! We have also seen very different disputes here. But if we all learn, we'll be better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1239	Thank you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1240	Thank you, good vice chairman. I would first of all say that the possible three minutes that you could give me, I would like to give the repressed Peeter Ernitsa, who has been deprived of this opportunity. And what do you mean, we can't trade speaking time here right now? We all know this: "Give me your phone, I ran out of speaking time. " We deal with all kinds of asajs, CO2 quotas and anything, but now the ambassadors are not free to pass on their speaking time. Let the meter tick, I'll get the important one that needs to be said, still canceled during that time. Now, the fact that a lot of people like him, well, you like him. But the fact that many people don't like him, well, he doesn't like him. These problems have already been introduced here. There hasn't been a very serious eulogy like this. Well, I suppose we should actually understand that there are many different interests here. Jevgeni Ossinovski quite early referred to these strange and interesting interests, which Kristen, of course, did not consider it necessary to draw attention to, because it was not his line; as chairman of his committee, Kalvi Kõrvi rescued. I want to congratulate you, and I hope that the Reform Party Group will not reprimand for the fact that you have answered the questions in substance. You answered exactly as much as it was necessary for the ambassadors to understand, not to talk here, that we didn't discuss it or the second and third, in this warm weather, where everyone would like to be brown by July 2nd or June, I don't know. But that's not the idea. There's one thing that freaks me out. Well, we understand that the Reform Party has a cooperation agreement with the Chinese Communist Party and maybe that's why they keep postponing this law. At the same time, the interest of the Centre Party is to keep putting all the trees in the oven. This strange compromise was found: neither of these drafts is going forward, but it is precisely the compromise that we are going forward with both drafts. Very brave decision. Because, as a result of this courageous decision, both of them are actually losing their faces quite firmly. My previous question, perhaps motivated by the fact that we had a number of 24 hours and seven days a week on the telephone 1247 and that we had big discussions here last spring because [afraid] that volunteers would go crazy in the information there. The President has sent this bill back to us, and he has said that there is a breach of the Constitution. I had the honour of reproposing this bill, which we did not make any changes to. Then it turned out that there was actually no breach of the Constitution. But now I'm reading that in this bill, there is an expropriation. Nothing will be compensated for to the entrepreneur. And this isn't a constitutional offense. Because it has already been seen that the law enters into force on the first point or which it is on the 15th of July 2021. We basically have a few more days, or tomorrow, to do the third reading. And there's already the fact that the president doesn't see the problem here. Just as in the case of owners of fur farms who had made investments, this party is now over, but the state is not compensating for anything. I hope that these owners of fur farms will appeal against this decision, because the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia does not allow such expropriation or nationalisation. But, well, this is such an interesting love triangle. It is already known that the President is declaring it, so boldly, because two political parties have actually found a pretty good common ground, and they both go on with it. It's gonna make a little eyebrow up. I am not such a skeptic to say, with the words of Toe Tag, that tomorrow you will not be sick and the day after tomorrow, but I will say in Singer's words that you cannot be without information, that I need the air. The fact that we are listened to and watched through the air, and all this, is extremely strange. Well, you see, it turns out there's no grate. I say I don't trust this Chinese stuff, but they still send me letters from the embassy all the time, even though I'm not a member of this support group. I don't know why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1241	Thank you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1242	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, As Jüri Ratas likes to say, at a nice pace, we're heading towards the morning. First of all, yes, I think hands off Kristen Michal. I do not think that because the Reform Party has an agreement with the Chinese Communist Party, Kristen came here today to the remote and pushed [away] Kalvi Tough, who should have come here on paper. But it's my kind of guess. But I remember it was last year before the anniversary of the Republic, when we had such fine gentlemen who didn't remember their face well from the Foreign Intelligence Service. They went all over us and told us the story we've all heard. So I'm not gonna say it. Then I read in the paper that, oh, former Minister of the Interior, a member of the board of the Isamaa also settled himself in the group of my fellow Fatherland Union and overheard it as a lobbyist how it works. And when you look at it, the world is tiny. Now today a young colleague of the folk writer made a statement that there was actually no Ratas and Pence behind it, but was Urmas, and he is also an officer of the Fatherland Union. So a small party, yes, but very large, and one on one side, the other on the other. It's such a small reminder at this hour of midnight, if you'll excuse me. But what do I think of that? I'm not a scout. And if I was, I wouldn't say that. But I do know some geography, and I know that China is a pretty big country. When these Foreign Intelligence boys visited us, their faces were the same as they used to be, that they weren't well remembered, I was talking to, I don't remember who my colleagues were. It came up about how things are in Brussels, where there is europarlamento, the European Parliament. It was also clear that the United States of America is our great ally to whom we contribute and hope until we manage on our own, if we manage, Leo knows better how long we can do it, and eventually they will come at the right time. This pressure is clearly from our American friends. But then it came up and it turned out that Belgium was the castle of Huawei. And then I talked to somebody and I looked into how the schizophrenic situation is: one big friend in Washington talks a story, but another, europarlamento, where our boys are, and its surroundings are under control of another superpower, if you could say, because Huawei is very closely connected to them, under their control. It's called a schizophrenic situation. It is like meeting one of our great friends in the same way, but on the other hand, our other great friend is the European Union, its headquarters and its entrepreneurship in a completely different reality. So how are we supposed to act? Listening to Mart Helme's speech here, from the philosophical point of view of a high-ranking synologist and a Chinese-interested person, he didn't say straight, but I didn't realize that I didn't want to put all the eggs in one basket. But maybe that's not the way to put it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1243	Peter, do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1244	Yeah, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1245	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1246	And if I could even have six minutes of what Mr Kruusimägi has offered me repeatedly, but...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1247	This is not allowed by the Rules of Procedure, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1248	Yeah, but it wasn't allowed... Yeah. But that's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1249	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1250	And then what do we do? By the time the year has passed, the situation has changed considerably. Belgium's largest telecommunications company has made its decision. Sweden has done the same. But at the same time, the Finns... Kristen didn't want to say the name of the wolf here at first, but it was said in the end that the wolf still has the name, with the letter "H." Hunt and Huawei are both "H." But if I now read Elisa's explanations, which some colleagues have already referred to here, then it is actually not the best action that should be compensated for. To remind you of what Mr Kruusimäe said here about fur animals, I can tell you exactly that there is a requirement of about 10 million. And now that I'm reading Elisa's managers' papers and the Commission's documents, it says 50 million. Of course, we cannot compare Karjaküla farm and Chinese Huawei infrastructure based on supertechnology and all this in Estonia. I think it's much more expensive. Here in Estonia we are faced with the problem that we are restricting all kinds of things, but we are very narrow to compensate. The same flying squirrels or forest owners, ladies or dads who die before they get a little compensation. Ülle Madise once stuck our noses like sons of bitches [in something] and then we passed the law quickly. Some didn't die yet, you got some compensation before you died. So, yeah, if it's for our security reasons, our best sons should tell us if that's the case. If we have to give up this great Chinese technology, we must be ready to compensate as men of honour. But I'm telling you, my experience shows that we've been very narrow, be it flying squirrels or fur animals, now China Huawei, this wolf...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1251	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1252	That's all I'm talking about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1253	Okay. There's another call. Leo Kunnas, please! Oh, I'm sorry! There's a line before Tarmo Kruusimägi.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1254	Thank you, good vice chairman. I just got a text, an older lady asked me what you're talking about for so long about this washing machine. No, Huawei produces things other than the washing machine. It's not a washing machine problem. Maybe that's what people thought because I was quoting some songs here. Bläck Rock was the one who promised to make a drum for the washing machine from the beet. Maybe when I'm talking about Huawei, you don't need to... Peter Oja is a completely different character. Although I was sitting here between the two figures, we're going to form a little triangle like this. In fact, we are here to form an association of punks from the Fatherland Group. But I'm saying that you have misunderstood, here we are not talking about a washing machine at all today, but that all this Chinese technology just comes and improves at one point, right? Just as we did in Tallinn to repair schools, now not even a light bulb can be changed there, the expensive businessmen are coming and [are working] for expensive money. It's a bad thing if we can't put out our own lights. It's an imaginary expression, but it's enough. Yeah, we're talking data right now. And that 1247, there's no need to call. Well, it's supposed to be paid, because Ivan Orav has said that these poor people are annoying, so if it's paid, they don't call.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1255	And now Leo Kunnas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1256	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1257	Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1258	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, When the confrontation between the United States and the Soviet Union was quite high in the early 1970s, then the US administration, Nixon's, sought a counterweight to the Soviet Union and came up with Kissinger's doctrine, or approach to China. Now we can see where it ended up. Of course, if Kissinger and the other leaders of the United States at the time had sensed what all of this was at one point, i.e. at this time of day, they certainly would not have taken this course. This is the first historical reference I ever wanted to make. The other one is this. When I wrote my science fiction "Gort Ashryn" at the end of the decade before, where I imagined two big Nets, the names of which were MILNET and GALNET, which are about five more generations of improvement from 5G, then at that time the first accident actually happened, which is now historic. In fact, there was a virus called Stuxnet, probably none of which embraced its origin to the end, and which ran into a nuclear reactor in Natanz, Iran, or centrifuges, so that the reactor fell out of line. This was the first moment that really affected things that worked through the Internet. Now we know that there are more and more cases like this and that it has become everyday. 5G net, the so-called Internet of Things, with smart houses, cars, all kinds of devices that all interact with each other. We're heading that way, towards this powerful system. And, of course, security issues arise where there are back doors, who control this system, who can influence it, etc. Here is the question: if we see a company in democratic countries, we logically assume that the good purpose of this company is simply to make a profit and that it is a purely commercial company. But in China, as in the Soviet Union, of course, there was no such technology in the Soviet Union, all companies were involved with the state and the party. It is the same in China now and will probably remain in the future. If, in the meantime, there was hope that perhaps China, really, with all the influence it has done with the West, could also depart from its world view from totalitarianism, then in the time of the last leader, Xi Jinping, everything has actually gone in the opposite direction. What can we say? China today is the most likeable of all to draw some historical parallel, its order and structure, nothing to do with Nazi Germany. It has to be said. The system of one party, the capitalist economy, but the state-controlled economy, and, of course, the indiscriminate discrimination and genocide of entire nations or groups of people, such as the one that was done with Jews and Gypsies. What is done today with Tibetans and Uighurs is not very different from what happened in the 1930's, not to mention the 1940's when these nations were massacred. But the resemblance to what was in the 1930s, maybe it's pretty cruel to say it like that, but I would do that here. Therefore, these companies cannot be considered as purely commercial companies either. We just have to understand what's behind it. I, of course, support this law. Perhaps its security core is reflected in Amendment 3, which, in the form of § 873, introduces requirements for communications networks and services to ensure national security. Here, in particular, the first three paragraphs are like the key to understanding everything. In order for us to be a loyal ally to the United States, who can actually cooperate without endangering security, this law, especially this amendment, is essential. There were also questions about this, yes, that some countries in Europe have come to the point that they are essentially not really able to cooperate with the United States of America in terms of information technology. Because if you choose Huawei, you won't be able to cooperate on that scale as you need to. We here, of course, as a border country in the alliance, cannot only look at the economic interests or be guided by these needs, but we must, above all, be guided by security needs. European countries, major countries have somewhat other opportunities. I have also given an example of energy security. Now that Germany has stopped or is going to stop using both coal and nuclear power, where will Germany essentially get energy? Russia's gas, of course. And all these connections. In this sense, we must try to avoid them as much as possible and, sometimes, to our European allies, whom we cannot influence much, to say things for ourselves, at least. There are major security risks, both directly within the meaning of this law, in the fields of information technology and cyber defence as well as in all other areas. So we don't have a lot of options here. If necessary, this compensation must be paid, but just a clear line must be drawn between us, and we cannot allow the creation of a 5G net here or a technology that is not acceptable to our basic ally or does not match their common security interests and our common security interests. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1259	Thank you. Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1260	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. Just listening to Leo's story reminded me of one read every ten years. I read a book about the CIA. In my opinion, it has not been issued in Estonian. It's one of a lot of books about the CIA all over history, where different intelligence operations are read out. There was an example of a reconnaissance operation, which the authors of the book regarded as essentially the only successful, properly planned and properly conducted reconnaissance operation. This is a good example of how information technology and software hidden in it can endanger national security. I don't remember exactly what year it was, but the Soviet Union built another gas pipeline. And it was during this period that people who knew political science might remember that time when the United States had imposed a technology embargo on the Soviet Union. This was still the case in the 1980s, and even we were exposed to it. When we in Estonia, with regained independence, began to acquire a computer park for ourselves, certain things were theoretically also forbidden to us because they included the software that the Americans feared should not be caught by the Russians. And the Americans knew perfectly well that this gas pipeline could not be launched without a certain cyber capability. Perhaps all the pressure on this gas pipeline had to be automatically maintained so that it would send the gas forward as a waterfall, but it was not nearly capable of doing so in the Soviet Union. The Americans knew very well that the Russians, like they're trying to steal everything, are probably somehow trying to get themselves this computer park, both hardware and soft. They did one very clever thing: put a hook like this on the Russians, so the Russians bought a secretly fed computer park with programs from Canada. And when they welded the ends of their pipeline and put those computers on it, it worked really well. The gas began to move, everyone's eyes were shining, and the red-star orders were placed on their breasts. Until one moment. At one point, this program raised the gas pressure in this route to the critical limit, so that line basically blew up to a whole extent. Kaputt. Done! The whole project. It's a vivid example of how vulnerable we are when we let some kind of villain into our nets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1261	Kristen Michal, speaking from the point of view or reply? They're both two minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1262	Reply, if the President permits. Thank you for a meaningful debate and good words. However, I must make one correction for the history records of my colleague Tarmo Kruusimäe and the future: the Reform Party does not have a cooperation agreement with the Communist Party of China mentioned by it. But if he wants to keep thinking, he can. He's not in the hall right now, but he'll read about it later in the verbatim.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1263	Yes, well, now we have negotiations [through], there is no more wish for words. I'm closing the negotiations. We can go to the amendments. A total of five amendments to draft 301 have been tabled. The author of the first amendment is the Committee on Economic Affairs itself and the lead committee has taken full account of it. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1264	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. On behalf of the EKRE Group, I would like to put this amendment to the vote and take ten minutes before it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1265	Here's what we're gonna do. Ten minutes of recess, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1266	Honourable Riigikogu! We are on the draft 301 amendments. The first amendment, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, has been taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1267	There are 56 delegates in favour of the amendment, no votes against and one abstention. The amendment has been supported. The second amendment, which has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and taken into account by the Committee on Economic Affairs itself. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1268	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, I ask that this amendment be put to the vote and, before the vote on the amendment, I request a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1269	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1270	Break's over. We are on the second amendment, which is tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, and the lead committee has taken this into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1271	The amendment is supported by 54 Members, with 0 votes against and 1 abstention. The proposal has been supported. Next is the third amendment, which is tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and has been taken into account by the Steering Committee. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1272	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, I ask for this amendment to be voted on, and before that I ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-16_U1273	10 minutes break.
