ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U1	Good morning, good fellows. [[It's ringing the bell.]] Honourable Riigikogu, have a nice Saturday day! We will begin the additional session of the plenary session of the Riigikogu, which I have convened on the basis of § 49 (3) of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act and the decision of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu including the 9 June session and the prepared agenda of the Management Board. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. There's no call. Then we move on to presence control. In fact, during the additional sitting of the Riigikogu, the presence is checked before the vote, if any member of the Riigikogu requires a check of presence, that is due to § 77 (3) and, in the absence of a quorum, the session ends automatically. Good fellows! Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U2	75 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 26. Good fellows! We need to resolve the issue of making available the materials for the third reading of Bill 366. Before we go to the adoption of the agenda, we need to resolve this issue. The content of the question is as follows: In particular, we have the third reading of the next draft law amending the proposed Act on identity documents, i.e. the 18th working week Tuesday, and the related amendment of other laws. This means that the documents on which the third reading was based, or the final text of the draft, were to be made available to the members of the Riigikogu by yesterday, 11 June at 5 p.m. At its meeting on 10 June, the Bureau discussed the issue of whether to postpone the time for making documents available by one working day, i.e. 14 June at 5 p.m., but no consensus was reached here. As there was no consensus on this matter in the Management Board, one member of the Management Board wishes to put to the vote in the Riigikogu's plenary session, pursuant to § 16 (4) of the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, whether to allow the documents underlying the third reading of the draft 366 to be submitted by 5 p.m. on 14 June. And we should vote on this issue. As usual, now there will be some procedural questions. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U3	Thank you, Mr President. It's good to see your resting face. I think you can get the bottle open. The question is that I very much appreciate your such, say, democratic approach to solving certain parliamentary issues. And my question concerns this voting procedure, either before the hammer hit or after the hammer hit. I very much appreciate that our very constructive debate continued in our excellent cafe, where there is a very industrious and money-loving, sorry, peace-loving collective. And then you adopted a kind of salomonic decision that we are going to discuss this issue. I am very pleased to note that the Bureau has been working, and probably only thanks to the serious efforts of the officials [have succeeded] in convincing you that this time the Conservative People's Party of Estonia had absolutely the right to proceed with voting procedures. Now our e-mail has been sent a message about the voting procedure. I understand that Imre Sooäär protests against this, because he still thinks it should be that it is impossible for people from the back corners of the Riigikogu to make it here. I would remind Imre that we have a plenary session, an additional sitting. We have to be in the hall, but not in the Riigikogu's rooms somewhere. But now the question is... I want to thank you for the time being. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U4	Yeah, it's really good to hear thanks from all of us. So the Board of the Riigikogu really discussed it, and here we had no disagreements. Let's move on from this question. Paul Puustusmaa, please ask a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U5	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am also delighted to see you this morning on the table, and it is good to see all our good companions at all, and we can get on with this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U6	Dear Paul Puustusmaa, I have a request: if you can, you could speak a little more directly to the microphone. And I'm asking for silence in the hall!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U7	Yes, thank you for the floor. I'm happy to welcome everyone to this beautiful Saturday morning. We can move on from here. But there are some procedural questions. And the first touches such a moment. If today you have introduced the need for a quorum in connection with an emergency session, how is it, under the Rules of Procedure, if I am in the Chamber, but I am not going to register, although I am sitting here, am I readable or unreadable?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U8	Thank you. If you're sitting in this hall and there's a presence check and you press the button that you're there, you're there. If you sit in this Chamber and do not press this button, you will not be registered as a quorum. This practice has been in this Chamber before. You said good luck on Saturday, but we're gonna have a great day tomorrow, too, very likely, if it happens that the agenda doesn't get exhausted. But like last time, we work in the hope that the pace will be nice and good. Peter Ernits, a procedural question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U9	Good manager! Yeah, the pace's good and the weather's nice. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I thank you for finally ringing that bell, for the congregation is rather restless, some vice chairman of the congregation especially, repeatedly earlier, [that was] why I first put up a [procedural question]. But the substantive procedural question is: if there is now a motion to vote, could this notice be shortened, how does the President even know that the second reading of Bill 366 will end today? Maybe he won't stop tomorrow. Then we have to start discussing or shortening again.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U10	Thank you. In this sense, you are right that we must be dynamic here in the Riigikogu. However, if you look at the agenda for next week, the truth is that 366 third readings will also be put on the agenda conditionally if it is closed at an additional first or additional second session. So in this sense, you have the right to have the risk of not ending it, and that is why he is on the agenda conditionally. Kalle Grünthal, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U11	Thank you, Mr President. Now that we've learned about the voting procedure that gives... Well, let's say this thing is clear in principle. But then we are faced with the fact that one of the drafts that caused the dispute went through reading in this Chamber illegally, perhaps in serious breach of procedures. How should we resolve this situation now so that it becomes legal?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U12	Thank you. If you refer to this vote, then it is also the Bureau's request to the Chamber that we follow this established practice, which is that a break is requested before the voting procedure begins. And when we think about the meeting at that time, it was also the case that, in addition to the debate, the chairman of your group, when he said that he wanted to vote on it, immediately asked for a break, i.e. at the same time or at the same time. Reuben Weightep, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U13	Good morning, Mr President of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U14	Good morning.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U15	I would like to remind you that there was such a unfortunate incident in our sitting before yesterday that Mr Põlleas wanted to take 10 minutes of recess before one important vote, but since he did so after the hall call, you did not give him the opportunity to do so. The Board of the Riigikogu has now made a decision, or rather a statement, saying that § 83 (2) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure says that a break may be required, I quote, before voting. And the statement of the Riigikogu's board was also understandable in such a way that the starting point of the vote is the hammer strike of the President of the sitting. Now that this opportunity was not given to my colleague Henn Põllea before the vote, is it to be understood that you, as Chairman of the Riigikogu, committed at that moment a violation of the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U16	Thank you. As the Management Board has responded, in addition to the Riigikogu's rules of procedure, there is a work placement in the Riigikogu. And on the basis of work placements, we have taken ten-minute breaks or asked for 10 minutes break immediately before the voting procedure begins. But I think that this issue is now better clear for all of us, and I think it is welcome. Helle-Moonika Helme, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U17	Yes, I have a procedural question concerning the assessments of Parliament. Here on 10 June Siim Kallas, a member of the Reform Party, has said that there is an extremist group in Parliament. Maybe you can look from above and tell me where you see an extremist group in this House. Does it exist or doesn't it? How about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U18	Thank you. This is not a procedural question. Tarmo Kruusimäe, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U19	Thank you, good Chairman! At the previous session, it became clear that the Board of the Riigikogu has taken a decision that if an ambassador quotes a classic or any book in the course of negotiations, he will not receive an additional three minutes. It's a very bad signal to us as an ancient cultural nation that if you quote a book... But my question is, if you print the book out on paper from the woods, it's a shame, but it's empty of it, could it be? Then we must be guided by the principle of equal treatment. And the book, as such, is in itself a paper, which would mean that even those who are going to submit the drafts should not use paper materials, but should do so by heart, which is, of course, a difficult situation if a factual examination is subsequently carried out. How can aids be used?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U20	Thank you. I understand that your question relates to asking for an additional period of up to three minutes in the round of negotiations. It's been and is. The point is that always the manager decides whether or not to give it an extra three minutes. This certainly cannot have anything to do with whether or not something is quoted. Kalle Grünthal, a procedural question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U21	Thank you, Mr President. To make my question clearer, I will give an illustration of life. We all know that a pedestrian must not cross the road with a red light. But some people still go over the red light according to established practice. Let's say the police will initiate a misdemeanor procedure in this case, in the event of an infringement. Now I don't understand your reasoning. We have a law for what the vote is, but you are nevertheless saying: what if there is a procedure, we will still do so. We're essentially going across the street with a red light. I do not understand your reasoning at the moment, because there is a codified right that we have on paper, and there are also so-called practices and customs, which are also a source of justice as such. But in this hierarchy of legislation there is, in fact, a situation where there is a law, it is at a higher level than practices and customs. If my question was very incomprehensible, perhaps your esteemed helpers from that left hand will help you in this matter. After all, we cannot take and throw aside the law and base ourselves on established practice. Which one is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U22	Thank you. The work placement of the Riigikogu and the law of the Riigikogu's home and working procedures must be looked at together at all times. A procedural question, Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We all know you as a very democratic, soft person who wants to find a common language with every person. But not everyone in this hall is like that. And we have no interest in your debate on these procedural issues. I have a procedural question: can I, under the procedure, propose to you that the decision to stop listening to procedural questions be taken to vote in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U24	Thank you. This has also been discussed quite a bit at the level of the Riigikogu Board. In our opinion, the Home and Working Procedures Act does not provide such an opportunity. Reuben Weightep, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U25	Yes, see, good Chairman of the Riigikogu, you said about the vote that took place the day before yesterday, where the Law on Home and Rules of Procedure was violated, so that this issue has now been closed and everything has been resolved. This is not the case for me, because this violation of the rules of procedure also meant that I could not exercise my democratic mandate. I was convinced that such a vote could not be legal, and therefore I abstained. Now I would like to ask how we will resolve this situation. However, this violation of the law and procedure had a clear impact on the outcome of the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U26	Thank you. As I said then, I am also telling you today that we must also rely on § 85 of the Home and Working Procedures Act, which is "Communicating the results of the vote." Paragraph 2 states that they are not disputed after the result of the vote has been confirmed. So I think that's what we're going to have to do. A procedural question, Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U27	But what exactly are we doing here today and tomorrow? I do not share the dramatic path of the [present] brothers and sisters on my left hand, which concerns this bill that the fundamental rights system will fall apart if this draft is adopted in this form or this base is formed. It is true, however, that the substantive debate or controversy in the Commission also started only after the time for amendments was over, i.e. in preparation for second reading in the Commission. Indeed, a number of questions arose as to whether double bases remain; what is the cross-use; whether the catalogue of crimes in which the fingerprints of the passport are used is too wide or not; the attorney-at-law, Glikman, has discussed whether the authorisation should be upgraded to the level of the prosecutor, etc. These are perfectly legitimate and rational questions. A week has passed, and we are now facing a weekend on a matter that needs a substantive debate in Parliament and also a compromise. And my question now is, looking at this debate, where there are as if goats on the purde: from one side to oppose this matter, and from the other side to push it through in this form, whether we can also, within these days, make some attempt to find a compromise that would allow it to be dealt with without obstruction, but at the same time take down the risks and discuss the work process essentially through those problems that may be linked to the protection of additional personal data. Wouldn't it be wise to do more thinking about finding a common ground instead of waving here late tonight and tomorrow morning? After all, this could be a reasonable moment for [to work for]. After all, Parliament is the place where agreements are sought.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U28	Thank you. In any case, I agree that in this situation it would actually be best to find a compromise and move forward. Certainly, a compromise has been sought in the lead committee, but it has not been found. I can say so much that we have also tried to find this compromise in the Bureau, knowing very clearly which group has started the obstruction because of this draft, he has said it himself, but it has not even given us the opportunity to go to the search for a compromise. It seems to me that it is seen as a very black and white solution. So, unfortunately, this [compromise] has not been achieved. But of course I think it's right, and I think it would be best if we could move on from here without obstruction. Helle-Moonika Helme, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U29	A good colleague, Mikhail Stalnukhin, has actually already started this subject. He has already proposed this, which is actually very undemocratic. When we look at the article by another honourable colleague, Mr Kallas, there is a similar proposal to amend the rules of procedure and home. But I ask whether, then, history has really ended in Parliament's work. Everything's become clear. No questions for members of the Riigikogu? We actually have all sorts of questions that we can't ask differently than we do procedurally. So, what about this one? So how are we going to vote down this opportunity? Right now, I understand that the Rules of Procedure do not allow this, but with a view to the future, do you support this undemocratic process of closing the mouth of members of the Riigikogu, for which the proposal has already come out of the mouth of two power parties? They obviously believe that they will remain forever in power and will never again fall into opposition, which is why this legislative amendment will not close their mouths. How could your view of such a thing be premeditated?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U30	Thank you. First of all, I think that all the proposals made by members of the Riigikogu can be completely made and there is nothing wrong with that. We all have different experiences. We all also have the opportunity to look at the parliamentary verbatim, the working methods and the behaviour of the parliament. I personally have had the opportunity to see all of this since 2007. It is clear that the point of procedural questions is indeed mostly related to technical matters. There have never been such procedural questions before. Is there any way to change that now? We must work within the framework of our Home and Working Procedures Act. The first vice-chairman of the Riigikogu is in fact carrying the initiative for possible amendments to the Home and Working Procedures Act for the next composition. There is a representative from each political group. But today [we cannot] resolve this issue in any other way than within the framework of the current law. Tarmo Kruusimäe, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U31	Thank you, good Chairman! Yeah, you answered my question. It's the manager's decision. But it can't actually be that the manager decides, in the round of negotiations, and if the ambassador uses a paper carrier to give a quote, he will give [additional time]. That doesn't make any sense. All the more so because there has been such misuse. It was quite embarrassing how vice president Hanno Pevkur, even before the person went to that remote control, began to say that maybe one minute or maybe two minutes [overtime]. Regardless of what the content of the conversation is and what we are talking about, such a trade will take place. I understand that maybe it's urgent, but you can also reduce yourself from this post when there are more important things, and someone else might be the vice-chairman. But the rules should be identical to everyone. Is the ambassador given three extra minutes only from the manager's discretion, or can we still regulate it somehow? At the moment, if the ambassador uses paper, he will not be given three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U32	Yes, thank you. It's the manager's decision whether or not to give it three minutes. The rule or our practice is to give three minutes. At the same time, the President is also entitled not to give it, depending on what the time limit is at that point, but is usually given. So it's up to every manager to decide how he does it. Paul Puustusmaa, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U33	Thank you very much, Mr President. However, I must say, at least it seems to me that our good colleague Tarmo Kruusimäe's reference to the fact that this is not a sensible position is quite competent. Because if we follow the Constitution's § 12 on equal treatment, equal treatment of all persons, regardless of the political views of individuals, etc., then this board's decision that I give one three minutes, I don't give the other, can be treated not as arbitrary, as Tarmo said, but as arbitrary. So you could say differently: if you're given to one, you have to give it to another, or if you're not given to one, you don't have to give it to another. Well, maybe this isn't exactly how you get here. But actually, the direction of my question right now for you, good and dear President, is quite different. I want to support Urmas Reinsalu. And Urmas Reinsalu suggested a very sensible idea: there is no point in wiggling this bike, it troubles us all, and it wears us all out, it is a reasonable compromise. Maybe a good manager takes a break, an hour like this, summons a body of elders, and we can solve this problem? We think that within an hour, we will be able to solve this problem once and for all so that we will no longer have to survive our subsequent obstructions. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U34	Thank you. From the content of your question in this last part, where you also rely on the idea of Mr Urmas Reinsalu, I think very positively. This compromise must be found. And I thank you again for working in such a spirit of cooperation, which is very good to see. The other problem is, according to the law of home and working procedures, I can't take an hour, only 30 minutes. So in that sense, I don't have a chance. If you now come back to the first part of your procedural question, then the President, as I said, any member of the Bureau is in charge of the sitting, is entitled to it in § 69 (5). It really is for the manager to decide whether or not to give three extra minutes. There has also been quite a debate at this session on § 72 (1), which actually requires that the speeches remain on a specific subject. But let's move on. We do not have many procedural questions left, and then we can proceed nicely to this sitting and start discussions on the agenda items. But there are still a few left. Peter Ernits, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U35	Good manager! I had one procedure, but I should replace it with a more topical one. The congregation, especially on my right hand, is very loud. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Thank you. Now I can ask you a question. I have respected one of our older ones, Mikhail Stalnukhin, who has been here since 1999. So what's he gonna do? Twenty-two years. When Mr President said that he was here only since 2007, and when I now hear that Mr Stalnukhin, who is here since 1999, is asking questions about the Rules of Procedure, I am now talking about the Labour and Rules of Procedure Act, i.e. he has not learned it in 21 years, what does the President think about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U36	I think at the moment that we should now go to the debate on the agenda for an additional sitting. I must honestly say that there have been no very many new angles to these procedural issues. But you never know, maybe it'll be next. Kalle Grünthal, a procedural question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U37	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are now in about the same position as we were at the last sitting where we began, say, the problem of the voting arrangements and there was a dispute between us, the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and you. We have tried to make it clear to you that voting procedures have been violated here. And that pingpong came to us for about 40 minutes, I think. The way forward, let's say, the way things went was this: we met at the cafeteria, in a totally free atmosphere, we talked our problems open, we tried to find a solution. The result is that after some time the Board of the Riigikogu, together with its specialists, gathered together and found a solution to this matter. Essentially, instead of 40 minutes here playing pingpong with questions and answers, it is possible to solve the problem raised constructively. And right now, I'm seeing about the same process. I specifically ask the question: whichever comes first, is the law or the decision of the Board of the Riigikogu based on established practice? To be honest, I say, [despite] all my respect for you, that I have not always received direct answers. Maybe then I have a terrible desire to go on with all this legislation, but as long as we... Well, I understand that some of my questions are perhaps uncomfortable and, from a legal point of view, you cannot find a reason, but you could still try this last week's practice, that we are discussing, taking a break, and we can get over this problem here. Because, let's say, I also have a huge desire to move forward with the sitting in real form. But you yourself are creating a situation where you do not answer the question specifically, and that raises new questions again. If I could ask you, say, five or six questions straight from you, listen to your answers, put forward my arguments, then this situation would resolve instantly, I mean, it would be clear whether I am right or whether you are right. And if there are any points of dispute, you could, let's say, from specialists...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U38	Mr Grünthal, I think I understand the procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U39	I have a suggestion: take a break, we will discuss this problem among ourselves and then we can move on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U40	Thank you. You now have three minutes... First of all, I appreciate your willingness to move on. I see we're in your position here. Thanks for that. In answer to your procedural question, I suggest you read your first procedural question in your verbatim, there is already an answer to your fifth procedural question. But what I'm saying is, we usually haven't been able to go on with five or six procedures, you've still had nine or ten. So you've kept a good level. Procedural question, Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U41	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! My heart still obliges me to return to this unfortunate vote the day before yesterday. Why? It is not because, as you may have misunderstood my question or assumed wrong, that I am now strictly demanding that there be a re-election vote. I understand the law of the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure in exactly the way that it is not legally possible to make this re-vote, and that is not what I am calling for at the moment. My desire and appeal to you is rather human in nature. I would just like to know if you understand that you made a mistake in carrying out this vote the day before yesterday, were wrong, and in the course of that, you broke the law. I believe that recognising this mistake will in no way diminish your authority as Chairman of the Riigikogu. We can all make mistakes, both as politicians and in our lives. The question is rather whether we are willing to admit these mistakes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U42	Thank you. When we talk about convergence, the approach has come from the work practice of the Riigikogu. If you ask me that if today there was such a situation that there was a two-minute lieutenant and then, before the vote starts, someone would demand a break, yes, I would give it a ten-minute break. But the Board of the Riigikogu has asked us to follow the practice that has been in this Chamber, namely, the intermission will take two minutes before the Riigikogu's salikutsung. And the reason is, in fact, that these breaks, as was also referred to by Riigikogu member Imre Sooääre, are automatically extended not to ten minutes, but to 12 minutes. But if you ask me if I'd give you a break, yes, I'd give you a break. Jüri Jaanson, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U43	Yes, thank you. As far as we know, and I think that, as many other members of the Riigikogu know, we came here today to work on the agenda to work through and process and to achieve some result. Now I'm gonna make sure it's going to be really long with these procedures. And the content of procedural questions is not what you have repeatedly mentioned, is a technical request that specifically concerns this sitting, but rather sends out morning greetings, content debates on constitutional issues, previous errors and other major inventions. The second thing I see is that the time for procedural questions is increasing. The longest I've registered is two minutes and 40 seconds. [[Something's been called out of the hall. The manager's ringing the bell.]] Perhaps there is actually a great deal of room for improvement. I also have specific proposals or questions. I understand that the Law on the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu does not limit the time for submitting a procedural question. In the event that procedural questions continue until the end of the period prescribed for the sitting, has the hearing taken place or has it not taken place? Why am I asking that? Because procedural questioners have not yet discovered, for example, the possibility that during procedural questions, the entire law of the Riigikogu could actually be read from the end to the end.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U44	Thank you. The truth is that there is no fixed time limit for procedural issues. There may be some assumption that this could be done in a minute. I'll make sure some procedural questions go over three minutes. After all, the point has been that if there are any problems with the implementation of the sitting, or even technically, then a member of the Riigikogu raises his hand in the old days it was so, now he clicks on the corresponding button, and then these questions can be resolved on a rolling basis. I haven't seen in the last half hour that any new angles have come up with procedural questions. I appreciate what both Reinsalu and Puustusmaa have done to find a compromise, and I think that would be very reasonable. But today it is politically impossible to find a compromise, and then we will proceed with procedural questions. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U45	Thank you, Mr President. But why isn't it? Warm summer day, the Constitution has been agreed in this Chamber, the restoration of independence has been agreed in this Chamber. And now, with one database on which millions of euros have already been spent, grown men and women cannot agree. Oh, my God! I am not proposing, as a good Paul did, to take a half-hour break, because it would have the effect that I would like to torpedo this trial. No, I don't have that proposal. My proposal is specific. There are five political groups in Parliament, we can meet anywhere in the cafeteria or in the room of a member of the board, and we can calmly discuss this round of topics, in parallel, when this bicycle is being cranked here. Let's try to find out exactly what the problems are, go through it, search it, do this experiment. Jürgen here cheers me glad it's been done. But the bad guys have done it. I'll help you. Let us put it this way: if there is no agreement, then there is a mistake in the non-actors of the agreement, not in the fact that there is no agreement. The question is, to which the good chair also referred, that this agreement has, as I understand it, been sought somewhere in the vis-à-vis corridor, let's say, behind the doll. But I have a proposition. As far as I know, the representatives of the Isamaa Group are not involved in this debate, I understand that neither are the representatives of the Socialists. There are five political forces in this House. No agreement has been actually sought in the Commission, as pointed out by the good President of the sitting. As I said, all the controversy on the subject arose during the second reading in the Commission, where we were only able to obtain some answers from everyone in a sympathetic and pleasant manner, Mrs Ruth, as a representative of the government, but not genuinely seek this compromise. So my proposal is specific: let's not crank this bike here for two days and, I don't know, next week, as has been said. That's a question you can look at rationally. This is not a huge ideologically charged value conflict, in the sense that it is possible to rationally remove tensions here and say yes to some questions. Because it's clear that these bases have been constructed. We are not giving Georgia the bases as a whole, which concerns the technological solution. The existing fingerprint collection registers have simply been suppressed in technological terms. Now it is a question of data protection. I don't think it's point for us to high-level this confrontation here in two days, but rather to devote hours to finding an agreement rather than days just to poking around here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U46	Thank you. I repeat my previous answer. I agree with you that compromise and agreement are the best. It has not been searched around the corner, it has been searched on the Board of the Riigikogu. True, there are no two political groups on the Board of the Riigikogu, but on the Board of the Riigikogu there is a group of EKREs who, above all, have said not primarily, but only he has said that he is doing the obstruction. And it's really been black and white and the solution is either 366 is or not. To find any other way to compromise here, at least to date, there has been no such signal. Tarmo Kruusimäe, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U47	Thank you, good Chairman! First of all, you were, to put it mildly, imprecise when you answered Paul Puustusmaa when you said that it was not possible to take more than 30 minutes' break. I would remind you of the sitting on 13 February 2019 when Riina Sikkut broke the tobacco bill because the Prime Minister was sought, she was not caught for several hours and so we had a longer break. So it's possible. But my procedural question. I understand that you are doing a situation where our contractors, ministers, can actually report 20 minutes on paper, but at the same time the delegates, employers, cannot use paper material, because the President of the Riigikogu may decide that he will not give extra time. I see that there is actually quite a problem here: we are giving up the role of the Riigikogu for the executive. And that's a big problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U48	Thank you. The break of the Head of the Riigikogu is recorded in § 65 of the Home and Working Procedures Act, which really says: up to 30 minutes. I will now come to the negotiations, to this extra time. It is very difficult to recall the moment when it has not actually been given this three minutes. These are very exceptional cases, just as you are producing an example of what was coming days ago. Usually, though, this has been done, and these three minutes have been given. Paul Woodland, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U49	Thank you, good George! First of all, of course, I would like to thank Tarmo for his support. But now for a clue that I cannot be satisfied with in any way, it's the same fact. Honourable Management Board of the Riigikogu, I ask you to pay attention to § 12 of the Constitution because I cannot accept a situation where § 69 (5) and 72 (1) of the Law on Home and Working Procedures are more important than § 12 of the Constitution. But my most important reference is to today's agenda. Here I want to come to your aid and support Urmas Reinsalu, who said that the wrong men have decided the matter. Because, according to the Rules of Procedure, we have a body with very little regulation, but a body with great force, which is a body of elders, and it has very great opportunities. Perhaps the body of elders would come together and discuss this matter again. Here you can do, say, twice 30 minutes, well then he's in accordance with the rules, and discuss it over, because this lost hour brings us back the days we won. So consider it anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U50	Thank you. Certainly, the body of elders is a perfectly good form, but I think it is worth calling this form together when there is any sense that a compromise can be found. As I have described to you, I have been looking for it in at least two Bureau meetings or sessions, but it doesn't even appear at the moment. But I agree with you that the body of elders at one point will certainly be successful. Today, I don't see a chance it's gonna work. Helle-Moonika Helme, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U51	Yeah, I still very much have this proposal, looking forward to changing the procedures that two representatives of the government have already done here. Why are we here asking all these procedural and all the questions? There is still one very clear reason for this: we have not received answers, even in the Commission. And now I read that the Vice-Chairman of the Honourable Reform Party is also proposing to limit the volume of 60 questions in Parliament, because he appreciates it! That the remaining questions may not be relevant to the rapporteur. But we are also seeing very well now how we have received it here, we can call it Obstruction, but I would already call it a pretty good parliamentary debate on the drafts, which we have not received in the committees and which we may not have been able to discuss in advance in the political groups. I have serious concerns about the future procedure, I see a very serious threat to restricting democracy. I see a very high risk that we will have a North Korean parliament like this, where the opposition's mouths are being shut down, even the questions must no longer be asked, the number of questions will be limited. How is your forward-looking, forward-looking position? If this comes to a discussion, will you support such a restriction and a reduction in debate in Parliament or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U52	Thank you. There will always be debate in the Riigikogu Hall, that is the point. But in this case, the question you're asking isn't procedural. Peter Ernits, a procedural question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U53	Good manager! It's already slowly starting to hatch out, which should be done, essentially. As Mr President said, a compromise has been sought in the Bureau. But the board is made up of three members. A member of the Governing Board is of the opinion that it should, in essence, discuss and try to find [compromise]. Another member of the board, the chairman of the board, agrees that this situation should be brought to an end. But there's another third goat sitting on my right hand, even though I don't know where he is right now. I'm asking if he's the one. I understand that he is the stubborn falcon who refuses to take any step backwards, so logically, he is the real cause of this obstructionism. My proposal is this: if two out of three board members think they should seek a real compromise, but the third one is not, then perhaps the body of elders with more heads should adopt it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U54	Your approach is wrong, and it was not a procedural question. Mikhail Stalnukhin, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The procedure and the very concrete proposal, as Mr Reinsalu had some time ago. I honestly don't understand why we only cheer each other up here. I have a proposal, and I am not asking for an answer to that, but I think the Bureau should discuss it, so that we can hold the next sittings in such a nice place. Since there is no circus in Tallinn, historically, I would suggest that we meet at the zoo, and take it to a meeting, or to a Japanese stork, or to a black hippopotamus. Perhaps a colleague, such as Peter Ernits, will understand what dignity is.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U56	Thank you. As a rule, we really meet here in the Riigikogu building, but the law, of course, provides an opportunity for Riigikogu sittings outside the building. So I thank you for this proposal. Kalle Grünthal, a procedural question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U57	Thank you, Mr President. I've heard you complain here today that we're just asking and asking all the time, but it's not like it's nice, and we could get on with it. But I don't want to accept that it's only the questioners who are responsible for this situation. I think that a very large part of these procedural issues is also being answered by the questions that have been put to you. This is because these answers do not always actually relate to the question raised. I also had a long lecture here some time ago that we could discuss it somewhere else in some group of people, such as the story of the same cafe, where it really went on. After Urmas Reinsalu made an even more specific-style proposal, which was undoubtedly very relevant, because, given his long parliamentary experience, he was able to formulate it even better. But the question is, a moment ago, one of the members of the Reform Party, Mart Võrguship, came behind me and started talking about how embarrassing it was for him to look at this situation. But I've learned about you, just as you always do when a member of the Riigikogu turns up, you always get up, and I got up the same way as it is very good practice to actually communicate with my colleagues, so I went to Mardi and asked what the embarrassment was. He said that we should still move forward, once the Bureau's decision has already been taken, that in this vote we will act in accordance with custom and practice. Then I asked you, but tell me, good Mart Võrguship, how do we act so that we do not base the law on practices and practices? There is a hierarchy of laws. That's when Mart didn't want to talk to me anymore. It's like I have two thoughts. Perhaps, first of all, Mr Ratas would answer specifically the questions, point one, and also resolve the question of whichever takes precedence, whether Parliament's practices, customs and practice or codified law. I, of course, tend to think that the codified law is on a higher level. Let me ask you again: what is your opinion on this last opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U58	Thank you. We are working here under the law, especially the Home and Working Procedures Act, and certainly within the established practice. The law doesn't regulate all the questions. Urmas Reinsalu, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U59	Thank you, Mr President. I will now make the final test, and I promise that I will not return to this inappropriate idea of seeking a compromise in Parliament. I understand that no one here is excited by this idea because it turns out that it was sought in the past, but was not found, and it is therefore inappropriate to return to a compromise. Once upon a time, there was a book called "Compromise Is Out of the question." The question is very simple. Mr President of the sitting indicated that a compromise was sought on the Board of the Riigikogu. And then, I get it, the EKRE representative said: they support the fact that 366 SEs are not allowed to be dealt with. But there are two sides to the compromise, each love must be two-sided. I have the first specific question to the chair: but what was the compromise offer by the other two Bureau members? What were these specific offers? Secondly, however, I propose that representatives of the political groups meet in parallel with this sitting, and I propose a concrete way forward. Let's make a deal with this 366 SE canceling today. The prerequisite for this is that the EKRE will not delay these amendments. We will give a new time for amendments, for example, until Tuesday next week, and then we will look at them in essence, which likes, which does not like, which fits, which does not fit. If, then, solutions are not found, I have a suggestion that, for example, on Thursday, the government will link this draft with confidence and it will be adopted. In this way, we can save three things: firstly, the authority of Parliament that we are not shaking here for two days in a row; secondly, our own time; thirdly, also the possibility, essentially, of reopening the debate on this bill and of looking at what could be changed there. Because right now we've gotten into a goat-sailing situation where we can no longer have a substantive debate. I had, firstly, a specific question concerning what the two Bureau members proposed as a compromise; and, secondly, a concrete compromise, a solution on how to deal with it, for example, as an opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U60	Thank you. Whether or not to find a compromise exactly so is that if one party says that it should not be dealt with at all, the other party says that we want to deal with it, and there is no debate as to whether it is possible to make any compromise proposals on how to proceed with this draft, then there is no possibility. That's the answer to the first question. Answer to question two. Could this be some kind of theoretical journey? It might be, but I do not think there is political compromise here today to go on such a journey. So we need to build on what are the additional sessions and move on from here. But I sincerely appreciate your contribution to finding a compromise, and I think that would be the best solution today. Reuben Kaalep, please ask a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U61	Yes, thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! I asked you whether you understood that you made a mistake during the vote the day before, during which the passing of the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act took place both in substance and in meaning. You responded to the fact that you followed existing practice, and also [you said] that if there were a vote like this again, you would behave differently. That answer to my question was incomplete in the sense that you did not explicitly say or admit whether you made a mistake, but it was as if around the corner and through the flowers you indicated that I, as a questioner, would understand, roughly that it was admitting a mistake. There are two different approaches to political discussion as to what the alchemists could call a solar and lunatic principle. I think both are needed in order for politics to have a whole, and both must be represented. So if you represented this dim-round-the-angle discussion form, and I'd like you to say clearly, do you...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U62	Mr. Weightep, I think I understand your procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U63	Would you please answer directly?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U64	I'll get it. I'll stick to my answers to what I told you. It's not like everything's a hundred percent in the law. There is also a practice on which it is based, and it needs to be seen in cooperation, in synergy. Peter Ernits, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U65	Good manager! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Yeah, it's a procedural question. One of the most experienced of our colleagues, with great authority in my eyes, Mikhail Stalnukhin made an excellent proposal to take the sitting of the Riigikogu to the zoo. As a former zoo worker, I deeply approve. But my question is that, certainly, this matter has been discussed in the group, in what role Mr Stalnukhin is going to take place in that zoo. Is he gonna jump through a burning ring or act like a fair bear? Has this been discussed in the group?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U66	Thank you. It's not a procedural question. Mikhail Stalnukhin, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U67	Thank you. I take back my proposal to move to the zoo. Even meerkats can't teach self-esteem to someone like Peter Ernits. But I have a procedural question. Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! How many hours or how many days or weeks do we have to sit like this so that, after all, the President will announce new elections to the Riigikogu? As the exercise of state power has been violated, this is not possible, new elections to the Riigikogu should be announced. Has the board discussed that such an opportunity exists?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U68	Thank you, there has not been a debate. A procedural question, Henn Põllaas, please! Henn Põllamaas, please! You have a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a serious concern about the agenda for next week, because we are in a completely unprecedented situation where members of the Riigikogu have been disbanded one agenda, but when we look at the Riigikogu website, it is completely different. Now I have this question: which agenda is it? There's no way they're both equivalent, and they're both valid for next week. The members of the Riigikogu still have the right to know the exact agenda on which we will work, in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. If there are such discrepancies, it is not possible to prepare ourselves for the debate on the agenda items next week or for questions to be asked. What do we do now? I think there's a very, very serious problem up here. We can't really discuss the issues of this week either, if our points today, which we should be discussing today, are written in the next week. What do we do in this situation? Either way, it doesn't comply with our Home and Working Procedures Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U70	Thank you. The agenda that the Bureau approved for Thursday next week is there. A number of points here are conditional, but this practice has been used in the past. Kalle Grünthal, procedural question. And I'm asking you to shorten your procedural question, you're really asking for a very long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U71	Thank you, Sir... Thank you for your comment first.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U72	Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U73	I will accept it immediately and be very brief. My question relates to the general concept of law. I am not dealing here with the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, please do not touch on this in answer to the question. My question is only that, and if you fail, ask your advisers which is legally more important, either law or practice and practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U74	Thank you. I don't consider it a procedural question. Jüri Jaanson, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U75	Thank you very much, Mr President. Half an hour ago, you found that in the last half an hour, your wording, I'm pretty much quoting, you didn't hear any new angles on procedural issues. I think you can make a more or less similar statement about the last hour. Doesn't that give rise to procedural questions? Or, in order not to rule out possible new angles, could procedural questions now be restricted to one question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U76	Thank you. Unfortunately, or fortunately, the Home and Working Procedures Act does not provide that opportunity. Paul Puustusmaa, please ask a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U77	Thank you very much, George. And just as our good colleague, Urmas Reinsalu, said earlier, that he is speaking for the last time about the compromise, that he will not speak again, I will take over this message stick and I will try to speak for the last time, hoping that it will work. I realized that the rumors of seeking a compromise, I now mean 366 SEs, aren't quite true, because there hasn't been a compromise, because one party is on one side and the other is on the other, there hasn't even been a search for anything in the meantime, they've just made their point. This means that no compromise has been sought. Still, it's worth looking for. I think it would be quite reasonable to solve this problem at the same time, so we are still taking 366 out of this week's agenda. This can be done on a formal basis. There are different options, including the fact that the waitress doesn't come to the remote. And then it moves on to the next week. Next week's gonna be a lot later, but we're gonna take down the obstruction right away. And later, in the time that will come later, it will be several months from now, we will certainly be able to negotiate and find a compromise within that period. That's pretty good.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U78	Thank you for this proposal. Sincerely, thank you for this good proposal. A procedural question, René Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Several colleagues here have said several times that they will make this proposal for the last time. Since I have not asked today, for the first time, however, I propose that this Urmas Reinsalu road map be considered. Since you said before that you couldn't take an hour, which is true, you could take twice a half an hour to discuss it and still find a solution. If you said before, you think there is no willingness to find a compromise, perhaps it would be wise to sit down and discuss the matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U80	Thank you. In any case, I am always in favour of getting down, but at the moment I am sure that there is no compromise. Riho Breivel, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U81	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. We're always walking around like cats in hot porridge. There is, in fact, 366 such a draft, on which our group has also proposed to introduce and change these things. After all, the question is what is always said in the press that the EKRE, led by the former minister, issued this bill, and that is our draft. True, he was. Today, however, so much has been changed that we wanted to introduce our changes. However, these changes are not taken into account. And this whole process is about making sure these changes are taken into account. If you say that you have discussed this, but do not find a compromise solution, then that means that you will also say or I do not know who in the body of elders is stubbornly saying that you do not take account of these proposals, which have been made by our party. Can't you really go to the body of elders and take these suggestions apart? Or like Reinsalu...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U82	Thank you, Mr. Breivel, I understand, but...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U83	...to solve this thing. We have to work this out. This roller that you want to do with us right now still leads to us chasing around here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U84	Thank you. However, we will examine the amendments in item 3 on the agenda for the additional sitting. There will be fine amendments all of us. Peter Ernits, a procedural question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U85	Thank you, good manager. I will start with what you came up with so that we should begin to find a compromise on what the board could not [decid], whether to shorten this period if we do not reach 366 SEs in three days [tested]. But now, if you look at the different agendas that have been set up here in the last few days, here's the law I've been waiting for long ago, the law of planning. Now all of a sudden I've seen it's like ten [little] niggers, three niggers are gone. Sorry about the expression "nigger"! But I'm an old man, and I remember the word "nigger" was used there. If three Negroes have disappeared from that agenda and one of them is the planning law, as well as databases, which have a much greater impact on Estonian society and need for which. Now we've sacrificed it. In doing so, I would have expected this draft at the presentation by Jaak Aab, the head of the Central Party's government delegation, but it has now been sacrificed to my colleague Korobenik.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U86	Mr. Ernits, I ask your question, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U87	My question is this: has the board considered what is more important to Estonia's current society?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U88	Thank you. The answer is no, we haven't considered it. A procedural question, Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U89	Thank you, Mr President. In the course of my questioning and your answers, I get a scene from the Estonian cult film "Spring," where Toots ripped off to dance on Teele and how they knocked down the churchwarden's bed and then Toots fled through the classroom to hide somewhere. When the churchwarden came into that hall or classroom and asked where Toots went, there was absolute silence. Then he banged the card stick with a terrible scream: "Where did Toots go? " And the beam must have shown that that way, somewhere in the bedroom. Unfortunately, I can't bang that card stick and ask you to answer me if I can get an answer or if I can't. But since you said I'd talk a lot and I did a very short...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U90	Your question, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U91	Yeah, it'll be right there. You proposed that I speak shorter. I said yes, I did it. But you answered my question. It's not a procedural question. Now I'm gonna ask you a little bit more to understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U92	Please, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U93	Yes, the question is this: since you sent out, i.e. the board sent out a message that we follow the practice and practice of voting in the Riigikogu, but that is contrary to the law of the Riigikogu's house and rules of procedure, do you consider the practice or law of the Riigikogu to be more important?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U94	The Bureau shall maintain its position on the matter which it sent. Reuben Weightep, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U95	Yes, Mr President of the Riigikogu! I had a book in this desk, it's Viktor Pelevini's novel "Chapaev and Pustota," which I've read in front of this big hall, and I'm happy to do it again. But now I have opened this book and I have found a wonderful quote here that says: "If there is a little misunderstanding between two noble men, will it not fall to dust if they both direct their minds to it? " And now I'm asking you. Based on my previous procedural question, to which you replied, that we have both laws and practice, or practices, in common, we enter into such a legal philosophy dispute, whether we have ordinary law in Estonia or whether only laws and regulations apply. In order to get to the bottom of this, you have to go...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U96	Please, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U97	...to philosophical depths. I'm getting to my question. Should your answer to my previous question be understood in such a way that practices and practice and laws and regulations are both equally worthy of our legislation, or perhaps...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U98	Please understand it the way I told you. Thank you very much. Henn Põllaas, procedural question. And I'm asking that if you ask a procedural question, you're ready to do it in your place. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U99	Thank you. I, too, would ask the honourable Chairman to listen to our colleagues...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U100	Good fellows!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U101	... not to interrupt...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U102	I am based on the fact that a procedural question can be asked within one minute, not within three minutes. Please, Henn Põllamaas!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U103	Thank you. There is no time limit for a procedural question in our Home and Working Procedures Act. Okay. But I would like to ask you a completely procedural question about today's agenda. Those agendas have come up on our tables nicely, on yellow paper like they always are. If I now look at these items here and compare them with the agenda that we had previously on the table on Wednesday, which we confirmed on Wednesday, there are three important issues that have disappeared from these ad hoc items, three important drafts. First of all, I'd like to know where they went...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U104	And the answer to you is this...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U105	...and why.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U106	...that the lead committees have made their proposals. When we get to the straightening and fixing of the agenda, I'll count them for you as well. The truth is, there have been changes. Let's keep going. A procedural question, Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U107	Good George! I still want to turn to it, once again, but perhaps for the last time, as far as finding this compromise is concerned. Both Urmas Reinsalu and Paul Puustusmaa propose a solution. I tried to formulate that, too. You say that since these proposals are coming to the vote, there are proposals and there are on the table. But we all know that the commission voted these proposals down. So here, we're going to be driven over every proposal with a roller coaster. That is not a compromise. You are a very good compromiser and, in fact, you can, I believe, understand yourself that this is not a compromise. The compromise still needs to be found, and it is the factions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U108	Thank you. Peter Ernits, a procedural question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U109	Good manager! In a procedure, it's like honoring a colleague's story. It really bothered me when you talked to my benchmate, she couldn't even talk or ask her question. I think it's procedural to respect others, not just to keep quiet in the hall. [Can't so that] if the questioner hasn't even begun, already suffocate him. It's now. But I'll leave my next procedure, which I wanted to ask for, for the future. I just had to draw attention to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U110	Thank you. A procedural question, Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U111	Thank you. I'd still ask about the procedure that way. Former member of the Riigikogu and current Prime Minister, when he was in opposition, he commented on what was happening in the Riigikogu and the procedure in this way: ""What is happening is a gross violation of the law. Members of the Riigikogu are deprived of the right to ask, debate. Members of the Reform Party will certainly protest in the Bureau," Kallas said. " In this sense, the procedure that has been in use here all along was acceptable to them at the time, for they did the same. They basically did exactly the same with procedural questions and absolutely everything that is currently in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. But now he writes: 'Looking at what is happening in the Riigikogu, I think the legislative power is basically being ridiculed and it is not in the interests of democracy that is currently going on there'.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U112	Dear Helle-Moonika Helme, what is your question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U113	And a question. As Head of the Riigikogu, can you tell us where such a change of mind is, and if that is the sole reason why we need to start changing our home and working procedures... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U114	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U115	...that the Reform Party has risen from the opposition to the government, and now they don't like this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U116	Thank you. This is not a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U117	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U118	No, it's not. Kalle Grünthal, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U119	Thank you, Mr President. Paragraph 74 of our Act regulates protests and questions about the procedure for conducting a hearing. A minute ago, you said that the speaking time of protests was one minute. Now my question is: has Article 59 of the Constitution been amended in the meantime and the sentence "Legislative power belongs to the Riigikogu" been replaced by the sentence "Legislative power belongs to the Chairman of the Board of the Riigikogu"?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U120	Thank you. Let's keep going. A procedural question, Paul Puustusmaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U121	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will give you and Grünthal a solution for their comment, as at least three or four times the question has arisen as to how important the practice or the law is. Paragraph 2 of the General Part of the Civil Code Act states very clearly that yes, we have [civil] law sources of law and practice, but there paragraph 2 also says that in fact the practice cannot change the law. It's about this thing. But my question is that since we have 366 SE on the agenda today and there are some changes there, and if I am not mistaken, the EKRE Group protested to the Riigikogu Bureau that these amendments were incorporated in the committee. And I do not know exactly whether the Bureau has responded to this in any way or whether it has responded to the illegal behaviour that took place in the Commission. It's actually a violation of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U122	Thank you. I do not consider this a procedural question, and we have not discussed it. Henn Põllaas, please ask a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I protest that you interrupted my procedural question last time and did not allow it to be submitted to the end. This is not good practice at all. But I will now continue my question. Since these three very important drafts have disappeared from this table, one of them was the subject of the planning law, which Minister Aab would have come to present to us here, and there is still this ABIS, which you said there would not be a compromise, it is very regrettable, while the EKRE has always been prepared for compromise, I have the question. All these important drafts have now been removed from the agenda. Well, formally, yes, the Commission called it back, but in fact it is the coalition's political move to speed up the ABIS process and push through this law. Is it really so important to create a super database, create a big brother's society, and enable total monitoring that any other important issues can be sacrificed to this end?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U124	Thank you. First of all, I'm sorry for interrupting, but I think we can ask all our procedural questions in one minute, and I'm going to limit that time, because otherwise it doesn't make sense. If you want to ask a procedural question, all members of the Riigikogu will be able to ask it in at least a minute. The answer to you is: the lead committee has the right to make proposals in this regard. Dear members of the Riigikogu, I have a proposal to stop asking procedural questions and go to the agenda. Peter Ernits, a procedural question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U125	Good manager! The proposal can still be made, but if we are talking about a procedure box, there is no point in starting work until the rules of the game are clear. I'm coming back to this quick shampooing or snatching, which reminds me of drowning, because when you drown, you don't see how he moves or whether or not he makes a solid impression. But here's a quick change of deadlines, so let's see if we take three days off, vote shorter. Or another thing, what's the actual agenda? And now I come to the question. If I look at the work schedule for next week, it'll be the same unfortunate 366. At the same time, this yellow leaf that we all have in front of us today, here it's 366 put in third place. First we should hear Mr. Odines out and something else, but...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U126	Mr. Ernits, may I ask you a question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U127	Yeah, that's the question. But according to this today's agenda, the Water Act and the Environmental Register, which I will present myself, will come, and they will be put in the next week for the third reading. As long as it's...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U128	I understand your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U129	... last week's work schedule shows that 366...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U130	Mr. Ernits, I understand your question. After all, the answer is that things will be placed conditionally in the next week if other readings or first readings are completed in advance, depending on the state of the draft law procedure. Tarmo Kruusimäe, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U131	Thank you, good Chairman! Do we have a regulated time to answer procedural questions? Maybe then you patronizingly said that a person must be present by the time of the procedural question. But we do not know how long this question will be answered. What do you want the ambassador to know about? Because some questions are answered long, some short, it's not regulated. Is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U132	That's the manager's request I made. If we have a minute of question, but we are asking procedural questions for two and a half or three minutes and asking for several or several times, then it is clear that there is no desire to resolve any procedural concern, but to seek something else. Kalle Grünthal, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U133	Thank you, Mr President. I was very impressed with your statement that this is the case and the time to ask procedural questions is one minute. Our Home and Working Procedures Act does not allow this. No, I don't. Do you understand? No, I don't. And I am now seeing very similar elements to the situation in which, during this infamous Nets, people came to the street and the police reacted too strongly and wanted to prevent people from realising their fundamental rights. I am very sad to note that your decision to limit protest time to one minute has already been reached by the same police state in this Chamber of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U134	Thank you. Reuben Weightep, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U135	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Here, a few questions ago, I was watching you and I saw that you turned to your left hand counselor. I read on your lips that you asked if the procedural questions couldn't be stopped. Now I'm asking you if that's what happened. And if so, admit whether you are tired of answering questions from members of the Riigikogu and if you are then at the height of your duties as Chairman of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U136	Thank you. I always respect the questions of members of the Riigikogu. Paul Puustusmaa, please ask a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U137	Thank you very much. Good George! I understood your answers in this way and please reject it if it is wrong that if the Constitutional Order is violated in the Riigikogu committees and a complaint is filed with the Riigikogu Board, then the Riigikogu Board does not have to respond to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U138	Thank you. The protest that was submitted to the Riigikogu was examined and directed to the leading committee. It was the decision of the Riigikogu's board that we will not resolve it. Henn Põllaas, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It really surprises me how you're so relaxed to change our rules of procedure and our rules of procedure. It has been said that every member of the Riigikogu I am not going to read this section now has the right to ask questions, has the right to submit protests, and the head of the Riigikogu or vice-chairmen who are in charge of the sitting must answer it and the [problem] must resolve it immediately. No paragraph states that procedural questions are subject to a time limit or that the President of the sitting...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U140	Please, Mr. Pierce, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U141	... could arbitrarily shorten or prolong or modify it. The President must listen to the question of a member of the Riigikogu. And that is my question: when you announced that you were going to shorten it to one minute in the future, to set a time limit, which section, paragraph and paragraph of our Home and Working Procedures Act were you relying on?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U142	Thank you. I rely on the fact that a member of the Riigikogu, if he has a procedural question, can do so quickly, clearly, specifically and not by stretching. My request was analogous to the question of this appeal to formulate within a minute. They don't do that right now, that's understandable. A procedural question, Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U143	Good manager! A purely procedural question. Indeed, we have here the activities of the last few days, like a drowner, that we are grabbed from the left and from the right, and these agendas are also changing conditionally. Wouldn't it make sense not to deal with it at all, to go ahead and see how it develops? Then we shouldn't be discussing the procedure here for two hours. But my question is specific. What happens if, for example, today, tomorrow, or within a week, we submit a motion of mistrust to the Prime Minister, the Minister of the Interior, or anyone? It'll take time, too. Has the board thought about how he can get this next week's work done or this week's business done? Is there going to be an additional emergency meeting to deal with the planned work? Has the board or the honorable chairman discussed this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U144	If a motion of mistrust is made, you must act according to the law. Paul Puustusmaa, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U145	I have a very simple question this time in order to clarify certain moments and regulations. Am I right to understand that, if a decision is taken in a large Chamber on any matter that has caused debate in the Bureau, then the Bureau will then have the right to adopt a new decision on the same matter, which will refute the decision of the large Chamber?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U146	Certainly, the decisions of this House take precedence. Leo Kunnas, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U147	Mr President, good George. You were on the remote when I introduced you to obstruction math and the whole hall. You have found a good answer that we are going out of the agenda 403 SE first reading, 376 SE second reading, 372 SE second reading, 378 SE first reading and 394 SE first reading, which makes a total of ten hours of obstructive time. I congratulate you on a good maneuver, but it also shows that you are obviously not prepared to compromise. Of course, if this has so far been the case, then our party will also be forced to respond. I personally regret that, of course. If a roller finds an anti-tank ditch, of course, it can be given a new direction, but there are other barriers to pioneering.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U148	Thank you. Kalle Grünthal, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U149	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, I have become unclear at the moment about the procedures governing voting procedures. Please make a paragraph of our law there and specify how we are to proceed with today's voting procedure. I mean, there are, let's say, breaks and stuff. To finally find out.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U150	Thank you. The Management Board has sent a reply to this question to all members of the Riigikogu. Helle-Moonika Helme, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U151	Yeah, thanks! I say that I am also very sorry that we have come to this situation now. But here the solutions have actually been proposed, and the question is that they have not been heard. But my procedural question is: has there been a protest on how last week, when Hanno Pevkur, Vice-President of the Riigikogu instead of you, was there on the board, who then tried to evaluate and determine the content of the speech of a member of the Riigikogu and decide by discretion that the ambassador must interrupt his speech by threatening to turn off the microphone? Has the protest been received by the Board of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U152	Thank you. As far as I know, there's no such protest, at least I haven't been informed of it. Peter Ernits, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U153	Thank you, manager. It was me who had Vice President Pevkur cut off the call and told him to get out of the speaker's desk. I didn't disappear, I stood there for a while, but I haven't protested. Can I do it again?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U154	You can always write your position or protest to the Board of the Riigikogu. Anti-Semiamets, please ask a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U155	Thank you, manager. I was in Postimees with Jürgen Ligi yesterday, and it turned out that the Reform Party had a pretty strong critical attitude to Bill 366. It was interesting to hear that, but I also saw that Jürgen Ligi had not got into the subject and there was still a lot of room for clarification. Why don't you propose to the Board of the Riigikogu today that we discuss this matter together for one half hour? That would make sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U156	Thank you. This is not a procedural question. Kalle Grünthal, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U157	Thank you. I think I have a procedural question relating to the case of Peter Ernits versus Hanno Pevkur. In fact, Pevkur here basically forbade Ernitsa to speak, even though he had the right to speak and was still standing on the remote for a long time. But I have a question that since our law on home and working procedures doesn't regulate it, what happens if a person doesn't leave that remote control. What, then, are the levers that can pry him out?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U158	Thank you. I don't know that this kind of thing would've been here before. A procedural question, Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U159	Yeah, I'm not gonna go on with this right now, but I'm gonna come back to that. But my problem is, it's been said that we're a rubber stamp here. I guess we really are. However, in order to avoid this, i.e. to look at a person who is a statesman or a woman or born from the point of view of a person who is not born, or, as the politician seems to be correct, which is actually more important to the state, the Riigikogu could still look at the substantive side, not at whether a committee has taken down some drafts in order to achieve politically the suppression of some of these dogmatic drafts. My question is about the planning law I've been waiting for a long time. Now this first reading of the planning law, this step, is sacrificed to this second database. My question is whether the board should not look at what is more important to the country. Is that the same ABIS database called...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U160	Thank you, Mr. Ernits. It is the competence of the commission to either withdraw the draft from the agenda or to add it to the agenda. It's the lead committee. Good fellows, 10 minutes of the chairman's break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U161	The recess requested by the manager is over. I'll take another ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U162	Good fellows, the chairman's break is over. A procedural question, Paul Puustusmaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U163	Thank you very much, good George. You're a real inspiration to me with your patience, and it's incredibly pleasant. But I would also expect that remote control to be guided by justice and justice. And if you follow the Constitution, we'll have justice for justice. Look, here's the question. The EKRE Group protested on the addition of 366 amendments, submitted it to the Bureau, and the Bureau took a salomonic decision that it would not be able, not willing, not able to do so, but that it would send it back to the committee where the offence took place. The Bureau is now aware that, in fact, under the Rules of Procedure, the meeting of the committee in which the problem will be resolved will take place on the coming Monday or Tuesday, as decided by the Bureau. However, this point is already on the agenda today, and we will then be discussing snow in the committee last year. Somehow it doesn't make any sense. Or how does that logic work?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U164	Thank you. There have also been protests in the past, even I think, at the beginning of this year, about the Commission's procedure for the Bureau. True, it was the previous Bureau, but basically the same thing was done to ask the commission to review it. Indeed, the Bureau does not determine when the commission holds its meetings. Henn Põllaas, please ask a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In accordance with the gentlemen's agreement, the EKRE Group is currently finishing its procedural questions. But I do have one question. As our group is carrying out this obstruction for a noble purpose in order to avoid the emergence of a surveillance society and a police state in Estonia, we have very diligently used this opportunity for speeches and questions. I have a question about the incident the day before yesterday. Namely, Vice-President Hanno Pevkur very ugly interrupted my benchmate, the honorable Peeter Ernits, by telling him the exact words I don't remember about, so get out of here. In short, he tried to dictate to a member of the Riigikogu what he had to say and tried to censor his speech. It is now planned to protest on this. It has already been forwarded to the sitting department. Please explain to us how such a protest will be resolved. Is vice-president Hanno Pevkur ready because he acted very ugly in public here and also agrees to publicly apologize to Peeter Ernits in this Chamber of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U166	Thank you. If this protest has already reached the session department, I believe it will soon reach the members of the Riigikogu's board. As I told you before, when this letter of protest comes, we will discuss it immediately. That's what I do. But I also want to say, for the first part of this procedural question, that I thank you for this agreement. I think it makes sense that we can move on with our hearing right now. Thanks for that. Dear colleagues, we have come to this issue, which gave rise to disagreements during the previous session of the Riigikogu Board. We were talking about when to bring the documents to the hall. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on this issue. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U167	Thank you. I ask, since we have an additional hearing, to carry out a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U168	Thank you. Let's do it. Dear colleagues, before the vote, we will carry out a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U169	63 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, no 38. Dear colleagues, I will put the following question to the vote: who is in favour of setting up draft 366 at 5 p.m. on 14 June when the documents on which the third reading debate is based are made available? Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U170	With the result of 55, 15 against and no abstentions, the proposal was supported. Dear colleagues, we have come to the clarification and approval of the agenda. This point also raised a great many procedural questions, so the decisions and observations are as follows. Pursuant to § 55 (1) of the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the agenda for the additional sitting must be approved at the beginning of the session. But before we confirm it, we have the following details. Firstly, the Committee on Legal Affairs has proposed to exclude the debate on the following drafts from the agenda of today's additional sitting. Item one, First reading of the Act amending the Employment Contracts Act and the Tax Administration Act 403 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Item two, First reading of the Act amending the Commercial Code and the Accounting Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. The Committee on Culture has proposed to exclude the debate on the Education Development Plan 2021 to 2035 from the agenda of today's additional session. The Committee on Economic Affairs has proposed to exclude the debate on the following drafts from the agenda of today's additional sitting. First, the second reading of the eIdentification and Trust Services Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Identity Documents Act and the Amendment Act 376. Secondly, the second reading of Bill 372 of the Law on Conformity of Products, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and the related amendment of other Acts. Thirdly, the first reading of bill 378 of amendments to the Planning Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. And now, dear colleagues, we must start a vote on the adoption of the agenda, along with the improvements and amendments listed above. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U171	Thank you. As these are extremely important drafts and an important change on the agenda, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break so that everyone can still come to a conviction or a disconvince in its meaning.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U172	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U173	Ladies and gentlemen, We have come to the approval of today's agenda. Mr. Pulpland has a procedural question first. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U174	Thank you very much. I was confused by the nuance that, now that Jüri was reading this new agenda that was planned, acceptable, a whole series of laws had been deleted. But since I didn't have them at all, it was impossible for me to understand what was left out and why was left out, etc. Is it possible to know at least the reasons why or why these points were omitted or what caused them to happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U175	These were the proposals of the committees. And we will vote on this agenda, which has been distributed on your tables and which has already been specified. Mr. Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U176	Thank you, good vice chairman. Yes, in the Committee on Legal Affairs, we discussed which points we are deleting. But my concern is that there will be no conspiracy theories here. I would ask you about this educational development plan. Well, they take it out all the time. What kind of minister's mistake now is that he's so raw, he keeps flying out every week? And should we even process such a document?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U177	Thank you. This is not a procedural question. We can move on to the adoption of the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, I will put the agenda for the next sitting on Saturday 12 June to the vote before you. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U178	55 members of the Riigikogu supported the proposal and 17. The agenda is confirmed. Ladies and gentlemen, before we go to today's agenda, allow me, on behalf of the Riigikogu, to welcome Christian Cambon, Chairman of the French Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, sitting on the balcony. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U179	Okay. Today's first item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Local Government Organisation Act 397 initiated by the Special Committee on Anti-Corruption. Speaking chair, Eduard Odines, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U180	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to introduce the draft law 397, initiated by the Special Anti-Corruption Committee of the Riigikogu, on the amendment of § 48 (22) of the Local Government Organisation Act. From now on, I will use the abbreviation KOKS, known to all of us, instead of the Local Government Organisation Act. The purpose of the draft is to formulate § 48 (22) as follows: "A member of the Revision Committee may not work on the basis of a contract of employment in the same rural municipality or city authority, perform the functions of CEO, manager, board member or head or deputy of an institution managed by the same rural municipality or city authority.' The Special Committee on Corruption decided to initiate the KOKS Amendment Act at its meeting on 17 May 2021 in order to eliminate the internal mismatch in the Local Government Organisation Act. This mismatch arose with the decision of the Constitutional Review College of the Supreme Court of 17 April 2020 in case number 5-19-45. By that decision, § 18 (1) (6) of the Local Government Organisation Act was declared incompatible with the Constitution. The current version of this provision provided for the end of the term of office of a council member when he is employed by the same municipality or city authority on the basis of a contract of employment. According to the Chancellor of Justice, this intensively violated the right to stand as a candidate for a local government council, in particular the requirement of uniformity guaranteed in the third sentence of § 156 (1) of the Constitution, which is one of the fundamental principles of democracy, as well as the principle of free self-realisation in accordance with § 29 of the Constitution. The Supreme Court's decision to cancel this sentence came into force on 17 October 2020 and the legislator was actually given half a year to lay down the necessary provisions. Pursuant to § 48 of the Local Government Organisation Act, the Audit Committee is responsible, inter alia, for verifying and evaluating the legality, rationality and effectiveness of the activities of the municipal or municipal authority and the institutions they administer. In doing so, the audit committee shall assess the effectiveness of the activities on the basis of sustainability, efficiency and effectiveness in terms of their actual impact versus the intended impact. At the present time, there is a prohibition to participate in the municipal audit committee in the case of the CEO, manager, board member and deputy director of a company, foundation and non-profit organisation under the same authority of the municipality or city. This is described in Section 48 (22) of the KOKS. Both the same paragraph 22 in KOKS and the groups of persons covered by this draft are in a comparable situation because they are directly subject to the municipal or municipal administration. The argument made by the Supreme Court for making a decision was that the earlier version of the Civil Service Act divided civil servants into officials and auxiliary staff, the latter working on the basis of an employment contract and did technical work. The current Civil Service Act defines the concept of an official using a substantive criterion: the official appointed to the post exercises public authority, directs the public authority, supervises, carries out internal audit, deals with offences, prepares and implements policy-making decisions within the competence of the local authority council, municipality or city government and public authorities, and is responsible for other activities which, in the interests of the consolidation and development of public power, cannot be delegated to the authority solely to a person in a private relationship. The decision of the Supreme Court gave the opportunity to self-realization in the work of the local government council for persons working in the local government on the basis of a contract of employment. This post does not exercise public authority, but merely works to support the exercise of public authority. In particular, this category includes accounting, staffing, administration, procurement, activities of administrative staff, information technology and other public authority supporting work carried out on the basis of a contract of employment. In addition, the Civil Service Act also sets out the functions of the mayor or of a member of the municipality or city administration to assist or advise the person concerned or to terminate the activities of a political group, mainly on the basis of a fixed-term employment contract. Although a member of the public authority does not exercise public authority, there may be a conflict of interest which undermines the functioning of the representative body between the mandate of a member of the council and the interests of the workplace. It should be noted, however, that the contested ban on reconciling the agencies applies to a large number of workers who may have very different duties. Depending on the content of the duties, the conflict between the mandate and the workplace and the consequent negative impact on the functioning of the council may be very different in size. The tasks of a contract staff member in support of the exercise of public authority may be extremely diverse in content, including in relation to the performance of public tasks and the general public interest. For example, an accountant who can also perform the functions of a financial manager in some places, and a procurement specialist has it more densely, while many jobs are weaker. The problems of the so-called mixed function officials versus employees have also been addressed by the Minister of Public Administration in his reply to the Supreme Court. As a member of the Audit Committee, persons employed in a city or rural municipality government under a contract of employment should supervise the activities of their direct superior and, in accordance with the rule of avoiding conflicts of interest, should constantly reduce themselves. However, a conflict of interests is a conflict between official duties and private interests, where private interests may affect the performance of official duties, i.e. not every conflict of interest may lead to corruption. At the same time, the Supreme Court has emphasised that a situation in which an official performs conflicting functions and pursues conflicting objectives may cause a loss of function and may create prerequisites for corruption. This is one way of resolving the situation where a member of the board's audit committee has to supervise his employer in municipal or municipal government, reducing himself. However, it should be borne in mind that compliance with the obligation to withdraw depends on the awareness and compliance of the official. Situations requiring resolution can be unqualifiedly nuanced, making it more secure to exclude the participation of municipal or city council staff in the audit committee. The work of the local government council may take place in a wide variety of committees and other forms of work, but the work of the audit committee may constitute such an intervention in the functioning of the local government that the burden on the council and member of the audit committee working with the contract of employment is disproportionate to the obligation of continuous self-determination. But why can't we just leave the situation the way it is? Within the limits of the law and in matters not covered by it, the municipality has a wide-ranging right of self-regulation. At the same time, prevention of corruption is a legitimate state-accepted reason both for limiting fundamental rights and for other restrictions on self-realisation. This same Supreme Court ruling also quotes the reference of the Constitutional Commission to the audit of the National Audit Office in 2017, according to which the violation of the Anti-Corruption Act has been detected in more than 60% of Estonian local governments. This is very sad statistics, ladies and gentlemen, for which this draft is only a long way to go in the first steps. In the case of a conflict between the official's duties and private interests, private interests may not unduly affect the performance of his duties. Conflicts of interest are not corruption, but may lead to corruption which undermines the honest and legitimate functioning of local authorities in the interests of the local population. Insofar as corruption would undermine the honest and legitimate functioning of local governments in the interests of local governments, the prevention of corruption is a legitimate state-accepted reason for restricting fundamental rights. In preparing the draft for the first reading, the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was very rapid and constructive and we hope for this in the future. At the same time, the upcoming massive work on the development of local government law must be taken into account. The Ministry of Finance employs a KOKS expert group to analyse and propose amendments to the laws concerning the KOKS and other local governments. This major bill awaits us in 2022. It is necessary to leave room for local self-regulation under the Local Government Charter when developing changes to KOKS, but also to bear in mind that the local government's right to self-regulation is not unlimited. The legislator may impose restrictions on the right of self-regulation of the local government. In autumn 2019 the Special Committee on Corruption carried out a study on how the opposition is involved in the work of local governments. One of the positive results of this work was the knowledge that in many local governments, coalition and opposition are not distinguished and many decisions are taken consensually to promote local life. However, there were examples where opposition representatives were not allowed to participate in the work of the committees. Moreover, if, in accordance with unwritten good practice, the audit committee is led by the opposition, including because it is one of many measures to reduce the risk of corruption, it was not allowed in several municipalities. We note that there were cases where the audit committee was led by a coalition representative because the opposition had not accepted this task. Although the purpose of this draft is to resolve the situation according to which the decision of the Supreme Court gives rise to the right to self-realization in the local government council of employees of the same local government, it is not the only initiative of the Special Committee against Corruption to ensure the transparency of work in local governments. In spring 2020, the special anti-corruption commission of the Riigikogu, as a result of this work, sent proposals to the KOKS expert group to change KOKS and to local authorities to organise local life more transparently. In addition, the transparent functioning of the local government requires a solution to a situation where a member of the council is a private company, such as a self-employed person, or belongs to a company's own company or is the head of the company or a member of the supervisory body. At least as likely is a conflict of interest when a council member is the head of a municipality-managed institution. In both cases, an active and highly know-how person has much to contribute to the promotion of local life, but at the same time it is necessary to find measures to avoid conflicts between his mandate and business interests or duties. In the same way, it must be ensured that the employment contract does not involve persons whose substantive function is the exercise of public authority, employees and officials of the so-called mixed function, to whom the Minister of Public Administration also referred in his reply to the Supreme Court. At meetings with experts in local government law, where we discussed whether the workflow of the Special Committee against Corruption in the Riigikogu should be included in the opposition, we found that many of the proposals of the Special Committee of the Riigikogu do not need to amend the law, but should be solved by promoting political culture. For example, § 47 (1) of the KOKS gives each council member the right to belong to at least one commission and it is necessary to ensure that adequate measures are taken to involve each council member in the council committee and to resolve the case where more council members wish to take part in the work of the committee than there are seats on the committee. It should also be considered whether the arrangements for setting up council committees should provide for members of the council to be able to attend meetings of other committees. It is appropriate to consider the delimitation of the grounds for their involvement, for example as a representative of the local government region or as an expert in the field, when persons who are not members of the council are included in the local government council committee, and to specify that the requirement of political balance is not taken into account in the case of non-voltaic committee members. In the selection of the directors and foundations of the institutions administered by the local government, it is appropriate to conduct a competition even if the regulatory legislation does not require it, in particular on the basis of the objective of the institution and the foundation and the needs of the position, as well as the involvement of opposition representatives in the activities. In local governments, it is important to follow the principles of good administration arising from § 14 of the Constitution and laying the basis both for the right of a council member to receive information (KOKS § 26) and for assistance in carrying out development plans, budgetary strategies and other draft procedures and sessions. The special anti-corruption committee of the Riigikogu is in favour of promoting both political culture and local government law. This principle is also based on draft 397 in order to limit the membership of the council members working in the same municipality on the basis of a contract of employment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U181	Good waitress, there are some questions for you. Starts Merry Aart.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U182	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Honourable waitress! Here's what I'm gonna ask. It wasn't until a few days ago that we were discussing changing COKS, 212 SE. That was § 19. Today we are discussing § 48 of the 397 SE. Why is that? Does this mean that the committees have no connection, or is it because we keep the work of the Riigikogu in any case? Do you see that we are discussing another amendment of the KOKS section at the end of the week or somewhere else? Can't we somehow make them more logical and together?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U183	Thank you. That's a very good question. The Supreme Court made its decision, as I mentioned, on 17 April last year, and gave the Riigikogu the opportunity and also the duty to make things right. This has now been going on for over a year and has not gone anywhere. In our Riigikogu's Anti-Corruption Commission, we saw that in the current KOKS, if it remains valid as it is, people working in urban or rural municipality government with a contract of employment will have the right to belong to the audit committee and supervise their employer. We in our committee considered this situation to be abnormal, unacceptable, and that is why we initiated the 397 that we currently have on the table, knowing, of course, that 212 has been standing in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for over a year now. And then, when we started it, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs suddenly discovered that a bill was in their drawer, took it out of the drawer and brought it to this hall. However, we do not have the full certainty that this 212 will be accepted in this Chamber. We never know if the President will announce it. But this question, the specific question here is quite urgent, because the municipal elections are at the door and this issue needs to be resolved. Of course, if the Riigikogu works here very quickly and, for example, next week adopts 212, this bill itself will lose its meaning. But until then, it is very reasonable and very important to avoid conflicts of interest in the local government council.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U184	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U185	Thank you. The Riigikogu has not worked very quickly in recent days, but 212 we discussed very thoroughly. I have a bit of a broader question. Similarly, I am aware that there are municipalities where the work of the audit committee is extremely formal in councils, if it works at all. And there are also areas or places where, rather blatantly, the audit committee is essentially manned by representatives of the power coalition or, at least, by people who are very sympathetic to them. Can this bill resolve this concern? Or how could this concern be resolved better? How strictly should we say, at the level of the Riigikogu or of the law, write down any rules to local government councils on this audit committee, say, any rules?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U186	Thank you for that question. As I mentioned in my presentation, a lot of questions here come back on the issue of political culture. However, political culture cannot be established by law, unfortunately. That is why we must now look at the circumstances that we can regulate by law. For example, a specific group with specific characteristics should be taken, in this case people working on the basis of a contract of employment in the local government, and their right to belong to the audit committee should be restricted. And that's what we're doing with this bill right now. As far as political culture is concerned and who is or is not part of the audit committee is already, as I said, the subject of the right to political culture and self-regulation of local governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U187	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U188	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'll take it from here where the answer left off. Still, if culture is really losing sight of something, the same thing that the previous questioner referred to, so that the audit committee is being manned cruelly and brutally with the people of the electoral alliances that are often in power in the municipality, but there is nothing really going on there except for a few formal meetings, then I think that from this place and from the point where culture would help, we have slipped past in Estonia a long time ago. You said the bill was dug out of the drawer. Perhaps there are still some plans in that drawer to solve the same problem so as to create a legal situation where the majority of the municipal council review committee would be made up of the people of the opposition forces in the council, at least in the situation where the opposition is there? Was such a debate raised in the Commission or did it not appear necessary to extend this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U189	Specifically, when we discussed the issue of this draft, there was no wider debate. I mean the Special Committee on Corruption. A representative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will speak about the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. We touched on the same business interests and other interests, which may also be on the audit committee. But again, as we said in this study and in the proposals we made to the Ministry of Finance within the framework of this review of KOKS, that everything would go back to political culture. And since the COKS Expert Group is currently working on and is planning to come up with a major new draft that regulates all this topic, I think that everyone, including your group's proposals, and specifically, Mr Pohlak, your proposals are welcome there in order to better regulate this issue. The Special Committee on Corruption reached out to political culture and recommendations in its discussions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U190	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U191	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, My question is also based on the Supreme Court ruling, where one provision of the current Local Government Organisation Act was declared incompatible with the Constitution on 17 April 2020. Perhaps you can give either some historical analysis or an explanation of how such a situation even arose, in which a contradiction with the Constitution was written into the law. In fact, we have had cases in the past where either government officials have written or the Riigikogu passed a law, which later revealed that there is a conflict with the Constitution. Will our country, our civil society, our politicians or our society as a whole not have enough value for the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U192	Thank you. According to my understanding, not officials write things into the law, but politicians, or the Riigikogu, do. Obviously, we need to look at the history of why such a provision came into existence there. I have been talking for a long time about how we changed the Civil Service Act and how officials and auxiliary staff became public authorities and assist staff. And that's where the problem arose, because this definition, which is still this helping employee, went considerably wider and also created the so-called mixed functions. A contract of employment was concluded with a person who actually exercises power in some municipalities, didn't it, to circumvent some of the nobility of the law? At the time of this change in the Civil Service Act, the KOKS changed accordingly. At that time, both officials and contract staff were automatically suspended when they worked. And on this provision, the Chancellor of Justice felt that this was an excessively restrictive provision restricting the rights of those employed persons. He also turned to the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court agreed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U193	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U194	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Special Commission! The draft law, which we are currently dealing with, is undoubtedly crucial, especially given the history of what has taken place, for example, in Viimsi led by the Reform Party, Narva led by the Centre Party, Kohtla-Järve and especially in Tallinn, where corruption is of indescribable scope. Regrettably, however, the explanatory text of this draft has been bullshitted. Here reference is made to the Constitutional Review College of the Riigikogu. There is no such college in the Riigikogu. Here I have a somewhat procedural question for you: should we not hand over the text of the correct draft to the members of the Riigikogu during the procedure of such an important draft, withdraw it now from the agenda and present the text of the new and correct draft at the time prescribed by law or procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U195	Thank you. If it's a procedural question, I'm not answering any procedural questions. But if, regrettably, there has been a misrepresentation of the draft explanatory memorandum or a misconception, I very much apologise because it is a bill that bears my signature. It is certainly possible to correct and correct the explanatory statement before the second reading. But an error in some expressions in the explanatory memorandum does not necessarily mean that a bill is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U196	Yes, there is indeed such a mistake here, and I hope that the Special Committee on Anti-Corruption will deal with it. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U197	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! You actually referred to a much bigger problem, namely, the President may not declare it. I would remind you that, even in the spring of last year, the Committee on Legal Affairs had an extremely large bill with a very large number of draft laws, namely the cluster bill, and the President said that there was still a breach of the Constitution. Well, we didn't have anything in there, so we came here and we processed it again. The problem was this: they were afraid that volunteers would go crazy with personal data. Now I have a new knowledge of yesterday's Committee on European Union Affairs. One of the pagans has information that if this strange acronym, PLNT... or some sort of minority organization, if there is no such issue, and there are 81 laws, the president will not declare the law. Are you going to sign this in to get the president to announce it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U198	I would still stick to the subject matter of this law. And when I mentioned the President, it was in the context that the further processing and fate of 212 SEs, or whether the President would announce it, is not known to me. But I consider it very important to move forward with this bill as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U199	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U200	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good Eduard! Can you tell me why we in committees and in the Riigikogu are dealing with very strange things? In itself, being a Member of the Commission in the same way, I understand the logic that is now being sought to do. But at the same time, we do things that don't scream or bite at all. And the same provision, that Section 18 (1) of the COKS, paragraph 6, from which it all started, applies in itself from 2012. There was no problem with that anywhere, but the Chancellor of Justice woke up, the courts woke up. If we are also looking at the amendment to the paragraph that we are doing now, there is actually no problem with that, but we can just see that there is no logic in it. There's an initiative coming from some sort of legal office or court, and we're going to deal with things that don't scream on their own, in a situation where we have the KOKS review at our door, we know that we're preparing to accept a new KOKS. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Why are we doing this now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U201	Thank you. I don't know what to do, and I don't want to do it. It's not my job to judge the Chancellor of Justice or the judiciary. They do their job, and when they find out some provisions that are contrary to the Constitution, they carry out their work in accordance with the powers granted to them. Why we are doing this now, I tried to make it clear for 17 minutes: to rule out a situation where people who are employed by the same municipality or city and who are required to evaluate their employer's activities are involved in the work of the audit committee. In order to rule out this situation, in order to rule out conflicts of interest, the risk of corruption and the situation where the work of the audit committee is very disrupted, since the law-abiding people must constantly detract from themselves in decision-making, we came to this draft law with the special anti-corruption committee of the Riigikogu and we want to resolve this situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U202	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U203	Mr President! Dear Eduard, We have tried to do these things together in Ida-Virumaa all the time. And according to the previous question, I had this question. Since you've been a practitioner on these issues, very closely involved, I'd like to know your own vision. Have you ever had this kind of contact in the first place? Well, now we have a lot of these municipalities, so that somewhere in Ida-Virumaa we would have had problems with it? There are problems with audit committees, of course, because there is always little competence, as we know. But I don't remember any chance we had a problem with that. How do you feel?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U204	We still may not have had any problems with the fact that the employees on employment are members of the audit committee. This is because until now, i.e. 17 October last year, they were banned from being part of a council at all. Their mandate was terminated early and therefore there was no problem. It has not occurred this year either in the sense that those whose mandate was terminated did not return to the council. Perhaps some people who, in the meantime, started working in the local government have the right to be automatically at the council and at the local government. But there are certainly many problems in Ida-Virumaa, who and how and how the audit committee gets involved and makes an overview. I have been a member of the Kohtla-Järve City Council for 25 years and I have been trying to become a member of the audit committee for all 25 years as a representative of the opposition, but this has not succeeded. It includes the heads of city institutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U205	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U206	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Chairman of the Special Committee on Anti-Corruption, In the current KOKS Act, § 48 states that the council is to set up an audit committee of at least three members for the duration of its mandate. Did you also discuss at the committee meeting that maybe this should be raised to five members in order to give even a little bit of opportunity to get more members there, and this is precisely the problem that you have mentioned, which will probably occur elsewhere in Estonia, to solve?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U207	We have not discussed the possible numerical composition of the audit committee. I would remind you that the audit committee can only be a member of a municipal or city council, according to the law. And in the case of very small municipalities, where the number of council members is very low, it could cause problems if we set the limit, I don't know, five to seven or more. I think this is the optimal number for smaller municipalities at the moment. But in larger municipalities, of course, we should make sure that the audit committee is greater than the minimum number prescribed by law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U208	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U209	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Honourable waitress! What this draft seeks is perfectly understandable and very correct. Indeed, if there is a conflict of interest, it cannot be that a subordinate controls his superior if he may be affected. But, as we know, although good practice requires the Chairman of the Audit Committee to come from the opposition, in many councils, local governments across Estonia this is not really the case. However, if the chairman of the audit committee is in the same political party as the coalition under the authority of the municipality or city, this in turn creates exactly the same conflict of interest to protect and not control their own, etc. What do you think of this situation? Should this be changed?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U210	Thank you. As I mentioned in the presentation, this issue is rather a matter of political culture. I don't think we can get things settled by law here. The law prohibits the supervision of related persons. And the law specifically says who are related persons. In the present case, membership of a single party does not appear to fall under the [clause] of the parties involved and there is no objection here. Here is the question of self-culture and compliance: whether a council member of the same party as the mayor or the mayor feels comfortable when he or she has to be supervised, and whether he or she does so transparently and impartially. Again, it comes down to the issue of political culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U211	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U212	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I will look at the explanatory memorandum, here is § 6 "The Effects of the Law" and it states: "When the draft law enters into force, the members of the municipal audit committee cannot, at the same time, work on the basis of a contract of employment in the same city or municipality's administration. " Have there been any major public attention given to cases that have reached the table of the Special Committee on Corruption? Why don't you tell us more about what has been discussed before in the Commission and what has been pushed by the initiation of draft law 397 under the leadership of the Special Committee against Corruption? Why don't you give us some examples of life that led to the initiation of this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U213	The theoretical possibilities arising after the next local elections, when this possibility is widely available to people working on a contract of employment, led to the initiation of this law. We, at least as far as I know, or lately as I have been chairman of the committee, have not received any complaints on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U214	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U215	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I have a slightly broader and more general question. The impression that we are risking a bit of hypocritical behaviour here as a Parliament tends to arise. Some time ago, we had serious discussions here on how to give the Members of the European Parliament the right to participate in local councils. I have a lot of questions about that. We did not see that there could also be serious conflicts of interest. For example, from the point of view of regional development, one industry may be very important for us in one municipality, but perhaps at European level and in the big picture it is quite the opposite. Here we fight against conflicts of interest, but we do not fight in another place. Do you have any ideas about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U216	Thank you for that question. However, the membership or non-membership of the members of the European Parliament in the local government council does not concern the issue of persons working in the same municipalities on the basis of a contract of employment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U217	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U218	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Eduard! First of all, it is a pleasure to note that there is a person in the remote control who has taken the trouble to get a thorough look at the subject. Inevitably, every single member of the Riigikogu cannot delve into everything in this Riigikogu, and that is helpful. But my question is about the timetable. What would be the recommended or ideal timetable for the second and third readings? This change will probably no longer affect the municipalities in office. The objective, if I have understood correctly, is that the new local authorities that are now taking up office could follow this rule of law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U219	Thanks for the compliment. Our aim, as we have explained here, is for this provision to enter into force the day after the local elections in October this year. Since, on the same day, restrictions will also enter into force which say that a member of the audit committee may not be the chief executive officer, director, board member or head or deputy of a company, foundation or non-profit organisation under the control of the same municipality or city authority. Perhaps this ban, which is already in the law and which will enter into force after the leaders of these institutions and the managers and companies of the institutions that are under the control of foundations, non-profit organisations and their managers, and this ban, which is for people in the same municipality as the employment contract, will enter into force on the same day. So these restrictions would apply simultaneously to comparable groups. We very much hope that the Riigikogu will arrive, if not next week, at the beginning of the autumn session, to process the law quickly, so that these restrictions enter into force in time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U220	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U221	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, We see, above all, in Tallinn, but also to some extent elsewhere, because we do not know all small places, such a practice that those in power, especially when they have been in power for a long time, especially when they have essentially a power monopoly, build food chains for their members, their friends, and also buy up competitors. As we can see in Tallinn, several representatives of opposition parties have been bought up with good jobs and good wages. Did you discuss such matters in the Commission? Do you consider it possible to neutralise these yokk schemes in any way and could the audit committees play a decisive role in this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U222	Thank you. As I quoted in my report and spoke at length, the Special Committee against Corruption in the Riigikogu has repeatedly addressed this issue. I quoted to you the statements I thought were right. We have addressed our proposals to all local authorities as well as to the KOKS Expert Group of the Ministry of Finance, but most of these proposals have the same taste of political culture. And that's what we're actually talking about, where you say somebody's buying somewhere or somehow building food chains. It is rather a question for voters of why they support such food chains every year. And if you have concrete examples of how someone has been bought up, I think you should not address this question to me in this Chamber, but you should still contact the law enforcement authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U223	Siim Pohlak, please! Mr. Pohlak is not here. Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U224	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable waitress! I have this question: what about language in these councils, such as Narva, where there are many other languages? Will the meeting of the council be held in a foreign language or in Estonian? If in a foreign language, is there an interpreter? And what language are the protocols written in?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U225	This question does not concern this bill, but I can answer it. The Kohtla-Järve City Council, of which I am a member, works in such a way that the meetings of the council take place one hundred percent in Estonian and all the minutes are written in Estonian. On committees, work is done in such a way that everyone speaks the language in which he is more comfortable. In Sillamäe, I believe that the main language of work, I may be mistaken for the foreign language you mentioned, but documentation, protocols, drafts and all such things are still written in Estonian. I guess it's the same in Narva. But I'm gonna say "perhaps" for the verbogram, because I'm not sure about that. I haven't been to Sillamäe or Narva Council meetings in years.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U226	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U227	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I once touched on this issue, and Mart Helme once touched on his question. After all, we create a political culture ourselves every day. That's what we're doing in this hall, and in the last few weeks, we're doing a lot. What could it be? Well, there was talk of buying up politicians with sweet jobs, and especially before the local elections arrive, there is quite a lot of evidence of how the council members change the political group. What could these things be, how would this culture be created by example or by some kind of ban-command or? Well, just to say that we would like political culture to improve, that's not the way it is. Society is a more complex mechanism, and society also has such indirect effects. Do you have any good things to offer in addition to the rule of law?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U228	In my presentation, I have quoted a number of things from the minutes of the work of the Special Committee on Corruption. I'm sure you'll get to know it if you haven't listened to my report. However, this concerns the membership of council members in committees, their right to belong to committees and the possibility of choosing to belong to committees, the presence of non-volunteers on council committees, competitions for the election of directors of foundations and other bodies, as well as the principle of good administration, as well as the right of council members to receive information and documents which are restricted in many municipalities, in my opinion, unlawfully. These are some of the examples that the Special Committee on Anti-Corruption has highlighted in its approaches to the Ministry of Finance. But surely we ourselves, as you rightly said, will create this culture by example. I think our last week here also very well shows what culture can be like if it is culture. Finally, voters decide what kind of political culture imponents them more and, accordingly, give their votes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U229	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U230	Good vice chairman! Good waitress! I read here that it is not really good to belong to an NGO, or rather to its board of directors, because I dare say that all NGOs operating on the territory of the municipality or city are somehow under its influence. Is this the result of the January debates, where you thought that civil society involvement and broad-based public opinion were not the most sensible, but rather representative democracy? Will later, in the future, you become an obstacle to non-profit activities? Let me give you an example. I was chairman of the board of NGO Football Hospital for a long time, but now that I'm running, I should make sure I'm not in any NGO, unless the party thinks I'm the best person on the audit committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U231	Thank you. I would point out that the ban on the membership of the audit committee on NGOs is already in force. This bill does not deal with this issue. But I also point out that in the current law, the CEO, manager or board member of this non-profit association cannot be the same municipality or city, it is important under the influence of the same municipality or city. This means that not just affected, but specifically the municipality must have specific power in this organisation. He must have the right to decide the affairs of this organization. This means, for example, that the local government is the founder or co-founder of this NGO and has more power there, for example more than 50% on this board. This dominance is defined by law. I can't tell you where right now. But that's my understanding. And it's already regulated. If you are applying to a local government council, you must see whether the non-profit organisation where you are a member of the management board is subject to its governing influence in the same municipality or city, and then you must decide if you are elected, whether you are a member of the management board of the NGO or whether you want to be a member of the council, be a member of the audit committee and have all other rights and obligations that you have there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U232	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U233	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good Eduard! I continue to acknowledge your very good and effective work in developing this bill. It was a quick and decisive action. But I still think it's still unnecessary. And for the simple reason that, although we understand the logical reason, this is the judgment of the Supreme Court on 17 April 2020, the decision of this Supreme Court is also based on no practical need. And as you said in your story, there are no big problems in practical life with these things. But the Supreme Court also made its decision because the disproportionate effects of the restrictions were discussed there, it was a legal theoretic construction that was brought down. Well, it's called, say, fine-tuning. At the same time, we know that the COKS audit is ongoing, a new COKS is being developed. We'll probably be in this hall in the fall. We'll assume that. Do you really believe that there is a reason and a need for this law now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U234	Thank you. Not only do I believe that, but the entire Special Committee against Corruption also believes that, where it was decided by consensus that we would come to this Chamber with this draft. And when I said that there are no problems, our committee has not reached any problems. But they will inevitably arise, both conflict of interest and constant reduction, if this provision remains in force and local elections and employees or officials working in urban and rural municipalities who, in the meantime, are formalised as contract workers. Everyone gets to the council and gets to exercise public authority there. This is a situation that needs to be resolved, but it needs to be resolved proportionately. The decision of the Supreme Court settles the membership of the council, we try to resolve the situation concerning membership of the audit committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U235	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U236	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good performer, Eduard! From the same point of view now that we talked about earlier. This is now less relevant to this law, but in any case this issue must be resolved in some way, which concerns the same audit committees. As I know, you haven't been elected to the Kohtla-Järve Review Committee, and I've been looking at other of ours, there's exactly the same problem. It seems to me that it is those people who are less likely to interfere with the work of the council, in every sense. I don't think this law is gonna solve this problem. But maybe somehow it solves the serve. What is this final solution? Because in the end, you and I have to fix these things.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U237	This law, to some extent, solves this problem because it excludes quite a large group of people from the audit committee. Of course, he's not gonna solve a hundred percent of all the problems with the audit committees. I agree that in a large number of municipalities it is a problem that belongs to the audit committee, including the town of Kohtla-Järve. But I come back to my words: for me, the main issue here is still political culture, specifically those people who belong to the council that they appoint there, and how transparent and as conflict-free, the work of local government councils is free of conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U238	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U239	Thank you. Good waitress! Indeed, it is enjoyable to listen and to ask if there is an expert who knows the matter and explains it calmly and constructively. I'm used to it, or I'm in favour of action to think things through long and hard, and then a decision is made once that lasts for a long time. Here I also ask what I asked for last time, in the 212th time. Once again, we are talking about a contract of employment, but employment relationships are also governed by other contracts, such as a contract of command. If, now, somewhere in practice, there is an example that someone is in a contract of command, but in that case that law cannot be applied, are we going to reform the law again because of this one paragraph?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U240	Thanks for the compliment. And thank you for that question. Yes, of course contractual relationships can be very different. And, of course, this relationship with local governments, a personal relationship, may also be concealed by other debt-law contracts, as you mentioned. Local authorities can work on very different contracts. These abuses are, in theory, I hope that in practice, however, not very much. You can do all kinds of things with a contract of command and a contract of employment. We also have a lot of examples in Kohtla-Järve, where a person is awarded a contract of employment, and then he can be at the council nicely, also within the framework of the current law. But we could minimize all that. This specific draft aims in some way to minimise this conflict of interest by excluding contract staff. As we know very well, if anyone wants to hide or abuse something, they will anyway. They'll find it. And it's not possible to deny everything. Yeah, that's right. We cannot even prescribe to the local government, for example, that a contract for taking up a job or giving a commission may not or may not be concluded for the provision of any services. Again, we come back to the self-regulation and rights charter of the local government that they have. I simply call on all local governments, all city leaders and municipal elders not to try to find ways to circumvent the law by formalising their people to work with different contracts, but still to follow the Civil Service Act, the Employment Contracts Act and the Local Government Organisation Act. This will ensure the greatest possible transparency of local authorities and the absence of conflicts of interest which, in worse cases, could lead to corruption cases.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U241	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U242	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! This draft is undoubtedly important, but indeed the draft 212, which we dealt with here a few days ago, makes the impact of this draft clearly less clear. An employee of the municipality with a contract of employment, becoming a member of the council, does not have to choose whether he or she will go to the council or continue as an employee of the municipality. That's the 212 beans. Maybe his authority as a council member stops, not ends. In its place, an alternate member of the council will therefore be appointed to supervise this official when he is elected to the audit committee. And he's indirectly under the influence of the same council member, because if a municipal employee decides... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] There's gonna be a question. [If he decides] to go to the council at one point, the alternate must release the seat. How do you comment on that? Should we still change 212 SEs in that light?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U243	Thank you for your question. No, I think 212 SE found a very sensible solution, a suspension of powers. But in that sense, it is still true that if the mayor becomes mayor and releases his seat on the council to an alternate, then who is under his influence, right? The same situation will continue to apply to employed workers. We can never rule out or ever know who's under the influence or sometimes who's under the influence. In this sense, I come back to the issue of my political culture and to the voter's decision where he sees problems and where he sees no problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U244	Ladies and gentlemen, there is a minute to ask a question. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U245	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I'll come back to my last question. As I said, we discussed here earlier that, according to Section 48 of the COKS, the number of members of the Audit Committee is currently at least three. And we have 79 municipalities. I mean, in the meantime, I was quick to see that 48 of them are kind of where there's already 21 members or more. Perhaps it would be reasonable for us in future COKS to foresee, for example, 21 and upwards, five members. How do you feel about that idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U246	I think that this is an idea that is worth discussing, and I hope that it will also be possible for you, if you wish, to submit your proposals either to the COKS Expert Group at the Ministry of Finance. Or when this COKS bill gets here next year, you can make these proposals. I think that the minimum number of members of the audit committee can be debated and made dependent, for example, on the total number of members of the council. Maybe that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U247	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U248	[[Martin Helme will talk.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U249	A conflict of interest is a conflict between the performance of the official's duties and standing up for his private interests. Our committee deals with this conflict every day, looking for and trying to find these ways and solutions to resolve this conflict of interest. And the purpose of this particular draft is to resolve precisely the kind of conflict of interest in which a person working on a contract of employment must decide each time whether or not he or she has the conflict if he or she simultaneously carries out the duties of a council member and a contract staff member.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U250	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U251	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I also think that this bill is a very big step in the right direction. In answer to my previous question, you said that when you initiated the bill, you were based on a theoretical problem that could arise as the draft 212 came into force after the autumn elections of local governments. But I'm describing a case where corruption doesn't go down, but so-called lies. For example, an employee of a company belonging to the city in the autumn elections will stand for election, be elected to a council and become, for example, chairman or vice-chair of the audit committee, but the company where he worked will be found to have serious deficiencies, corrupt procurements, serious violations. Now the same person who has been a part of the company is going to review the same company. He has all the information, so he knows what to overlook and what to lead by the audit committee's work and investigation. The corruption in the city's company, however, remains to be revealed. Do you agree that there is such an opportunity?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U252	Yes, if he is a contract worker in a city or rural municipality-owned company, if he is not the manager of this company, then in purely theoretical terms this may arise, but again, the law says that in such a case he should also withdraw from the audit or audit of this particular company, because he is a related person and he may have a conflict of interest which could lead to corruption. In this sense, not all such questions are regulated by law very often. Yeah, there's a direct reference to what case you're like a directly related person, aren't you? But some situations may arise, as in the example you have described, that this connection may not be direct, but the dependence on this particular employer and on this particular company and on this further city power can be so great and destructive that a person who thinks and tries to avoid a conflict of interest within himself and in public will reduce himself.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U253	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U254	Good manager! Good waitress, thank you for an interesting debate. But I'm going to be specific. Let's put aside all these legislative nuances. You've been on the council of a large city in Ida-Viru County for 25 years, and you've been trying to get to the audit committee. Describe it to us, please! It's still an impressive attempt, a quarter of a century trying to get a council review committee, still hasn't worked. How have these things been going at different times to fend you off? You guys got some kind of beast sign on your forehead? It would be interesting for everyone to know, not just in Ida-Viru County, because this general problem is serious.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U255	Thank you, good questioner! This question does not directly concern this bill, and this bill does not concern my life story, but since you claim that it is of interest to the wider public, there are two reasons why I have not come to the Audit Committee of the Kohtla-Järve City Council within a quarter of a century. Firstly, I have been in opposition for all these 20 years, and secondly, the Kohtla-Järve City Council has shortcomings in political culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U256	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U257	Thank you. I learned from [the answer given to my previous question] that the Commission did not see the link between the two issues, and technically that is correct. But I leave a little doubt here, because conflict of interest is what nourishes corruption. And basically, it doesn't matter where it comes from. The control of the superior is clearly a problem. But I would like to take advantage of your rich experience at the local government level, and I hope that it will continue to benefit in the future. It is a question of political culture; it seems to me that it is quite precisely defined as a reason. Did the recent administrative reform, a few years ago, contribute to this in a positive way or rather a deterioration in political culture?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U258	Thank you. Again, this does not directly concern this bill. Personally, I do not have any data on this at the moment. Certainly, I think, has a Master's student or even a PhD student studied the subject. That's a pretty interesting subject. I think that together we could google it at some point and look for it, that's an interesting subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U259	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U260	Thank you, good vice-chairman. Dear Chairman of the Commission, This topic, which we are discussing here, relates very closely to a very similar issue, namely the membership of municipal and municipal councils in the councils of local government companies. After being a member of the Tartu City Council, I know that this problem poses a serious risk of corruption, especially when members of the local coalition party sit in two chairs at the same time. Do you think it would make sense, in this regard too, to perhaps introduce some kind of amendment into the law? Or should we rather rely on good political practice and that local coalitions do not do so in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U261	Thank you. The current law on companies subject to dominant influence talks about the CEO, the manager and the board member. This does not concern the Council. I think that this is one subject of discussion and it may be even the subject of this law, but the subject of the anti-corruption law, i.e. in which cases it should be considered a conflict of interest, in which cases it should be reduced and where these links are. I believe that this is an issue that could also be discussed. But here we should also look at whether the status of a member of the Council derives from the status of a member of the Council or is linked to the status of a member of the Council or has been designated elsewhere. There are probably two different categories here: whether as a council member you represent, for example, the city or the municipality in this council, or whether you've somehow ended up there in a different way. Again, I say that here is something to discuss, but this is not specifically the subject of this draft act we have initiated.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U262	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U263	If you look at your explanation, § 6, where there are "The Effects of the Law," states: "When a bill enters into force as a law, the members of the municipal audit committee cannot at the same time work on the basis of a contract of employment in the same city or municipality's administration. " This continues: "The border does not reject know-how and individuals with real support from local government audit committees. " Why don't you explain the other side a little bit and tell me what is meant by people with real supporters? Are these also persons who do not have a real support group, are they those who are now being expelled from audit committees? Or what exactly does the other side mean? Why don't you explain it a little bit further?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U264	Thank you. This means that all those people who have a real support group belong to the council, they have been elected there. And that's just one of the arguments, let's say, if we don't allow it now because he has a contract of employment or something, it's just like the audit committee can't do its job because there's no one to appoint. What we are saying is that there is no shortage of people who can be appointed to the audit committee, they are all elected by the people of the municipality or city, they have sufficient electoral support, so that they are all able to do the audit committee's work, regardless of the party or position in the party.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U265	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U266	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! You have already not known today how many times you have referred to political culture. For the sake of the tenogram: only two members of the Centre Party I see now in the hall, no members of the Reform Party are there. (Voice of the Hall: "Why not?? " Where is it? I'm sorry! Now it's come. But I suppose that's also a reference to the political culture of PortoRollo. But I have another question. Our next waitress, Mr Kivimägi, has fought and stood against the construction of Pärnu's third, new bridge, using the help of his party partner, the Minister of Finance. This is not directly about corruption, but it is about dealing with influence. Could such actions before the elections also be of interest to your committee in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U267	Thank you for this interesting question. But this, in my opinion, does not concern the subject of a specific draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U268	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U269	Thank you. My question comes from this week's agenda. We've had a whole bunch of drafts going on here. For example, 212 SE, where the suspension of the [executive powers] of persons employed by the municipality and the municipality under the contract of employment was examined in the council. Then we dealt with Bill 389; at second reading, the issue was the work of members of the European Parliament on the local government council. Today we already have the third draft, which concerns the local authorities and the changes to KOKS again, here the ban law is being discussed, on the basis of a contract of employment in the city or rural municipality authorities, the prohibition on employees being on the audit committee. Why isn't all of this handled at once? And there are dozens more things that need to be done. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Why separate, not at once? I'm sorry I went over time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U270	Apparently, a lot of topics are being discussed once and for all. Obviously, the reason is that the initiators of the draft have initiated these drafts at different times and at some point they are all concentrated in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, whose chairman you will soon be able to ask questions, and now they have arrived in this Chamber. The reason is also that soon and soon we will have local elections and there are quite a number of issues that would be nice to resolve before the elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U271	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U272	Good manager! Good waitress! Here's the question. A third of the time you have been repressed by my old colleague Valeri Korb at the Kohtla-Järve Council. He's been chairman of the council for seven years. But here we have a good colleague, Aadu Must, from the same party who has long been chairman of the council in Tartu. You said it was a matter of political culture. The party is the same in Kohtla-Järve and in Tartu as the head of the council, but is the political culture in the regions different? Or are you still dealing with some sort of criminal culture nuance in Kohtla-Järve? Or are there other things? How do these things work if you look at them widely and from the surface of your experience?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U273	Thank you for that question. Unfortunately, I am not very familiar with how things have been organised in the City Council of Tartu. Unfortunately, at the moment, I don't think it's very fast to see who's on that audit committee. I'm sure I'll do it or I'll talk to Aadu Black straight. But I can assure you of my sense that political culture in the local governments of Estonia is different.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U274	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U275	Dear waitress, Referring to the judgment of the Supreme Court of 17 April 2020, you mostly focus on the restrictions imposed on the member of the audit committee. At the same time, the judgment tells us of a much greater fundamental right barrage. In fact, it declared the KOKS provision that the mandate of a council member would expire before the deadline for working in the same rural municipality or city authority on the basis of a contract of employment. And the decision came into force on 17 October of the previous year, from which a person working under a contract of employment in a municipality or city authority can become a member of a council. Can you answer what to do for persons whose mandate expired between 16 October 2017 and 17 October 2020 in one or other municipal or urban committee and whose rights have not yet been restored?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U276	The mandate of these people was terminated on the basis of the law in force at the time. No one has so-called 'turned back' this provision of the law or created this right for people. But as usual, if someone feels hurt, they have a chance to turn to the appropriate organs, authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U277	No more questions for you. Thank you! Now there's a presentation from the lead committee. Chairman of the Constitutional Commission, Toomas Kivimägi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U278	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Commission discussed the draft pending at its meeting on 1 June. Since Eduard Odines made a very thorough presentation in this Chamber and the debate added more colour and weight to it, everything Mr Eduard Odinets said at the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is covered. Toomas Kivimägi also referred to a fact that has been brought to attention here even a few times. It is precisely how practical it is to deal with this draft now, because the 212 draft law, which was closed this week in this Chamber, also solves the problem that has been an incentive to write it. However, in order for things to be balanced, I do not deny that this draft was once again an incentive in terms of the pace of the procedure to draft 212. Secondly, perhaps one more line to this, about what the Union of Cities and Municipalities has thought. They have sent a letter on 25 May 2021 and mentioned the question of whether such a change would be necessary if the member of the audit committee had the right and obligation to withdraw in certain cases. This is a question of the form, but there are no specific references. Third, the Government of the Republic has not yet shaped its position on this draft, as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was very operational to process this draft and the Government of the Republic has promised to give its position on 17 June 2021. The Commission took the following procedural decisions: Firstly, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 8 June 2021. Secondly, propose that the first reading of the draft be stopped. Third, appoint Mr Toomas Kivimägi, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as rapporteur. All these decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U279	Leo Kunnas wants to be more specific. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U280	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Thomas! I would ask the same question that I asked my good colleague, Mr Odines. What could be the ideal or recommended timetable? My colleague Eduard gave a good overview that it would be good to get this draft second and third reading done before the municipal elections. This, of course, depends most on you as chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Do you agree on the timetable for further proceedings?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U281	Thank you, dear colleague Leo Kunnas. I listened to your question then, and it's even written here on this page. As far as the procedural plan is concerned, I have just suggested that if we adopt the draft law 212 next week, in fact, as Mr Odines pointed out, this problem has been solved, which has been the incentive of this draft. In this case, those who work on the basis of an employment contract may have their powers suspended as a member of the local government council. And if a person is not a member of a local government council, he cannot be a member of the audit committee either. So in this sense, I believe that this objective will actually be met, but with another bill, if Parliament approves it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U282	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U283	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Corruption is a serious issue and it is essential to resolve corruption. Is this bill gonna solve all these things?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U284	Well, if this draft has been initiated by the Special Committee on Corruption, I think these problems can be resolved. But, of course, I am not quite sure that all the problems with corruption will be solved. However, at least we will significantly reduce one risk. Unlike what, in fact, as I was referring to, the Cities/Cities Association has said that perhaps a reduction would be sufficient, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, however, took the view that, in fact, by supporting the completion of the first reading of this draft, the reduction would not be sufficient.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U285	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U286	Thank you. Good waitress! I also ask in some respects the same question that was asked by the author before you. Doesn't this bill 212, in some ways, dilute the impact of the solution to the problem that has been clearly stated here? I'll open it again, I'll make sure your thought didn't come right away. As is well known, if a municipal employee chooses to remain in the contract of employment, an alternate will take his place in the council. That's the same alternate who's going to control him, and he's kind of under indirect influence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U287	Thank you, dear questioner. I guess it's still not diluting. Yeah, I understand what you're referring to, and I listened to your question before. We probably won't be able to finish these connections. If an alternate should also withdraw, etc., then an alternate may be created, etc. However, I assume and think that [this can't be]. The interest of an alternate member, let's say, such subjective interest is still far from comparable to that of this principal member of the Council. So I think it's a step forward. But, of course, we can always find connections, and we can also find connections for those who work under a contract of employment and are not at all on the council, but are related to a member of a council or whatever. So you can find a lot of such connections. So I think it will significantly mitigate one of the important risks.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U288	No further questions. Thank you! I'll close the round of questions, we'll go to the negotiations. Martin Helme, please! Martin Helmet is not here. Helle-Moonika Helme, do you have a procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U289	Oh, it's coming. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U290	Yes, I understand your tactics. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U291	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Can I have three more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U292	It's okay if it's okay.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U293	Will somebody bring my notepad over there? I have some notes on the table. But let's start with some simple things first. First of all, it's just a reminder of why we're working on Saturday. It is not normal for us to work on both Saturday and Sunday. But the reason is the same: we do not want the Riigikogu to adopt a draft 366, i.e. the biometric database law. We will certainly arrive at these reasons today. But that's why we're here on Saturday. All the other drafts, unfortunately, have been sacrificed by the coalition to create a superdatabase for one big brother. But it has been a choice of coalition, and then, as a result of these choices, all of us have to carry out our tasks. Now, to the bill we've just been working on. There was a lot of talk about political culture. The political culture, of course, is very long as a word pair, stretching like a rubber, and it can mark all kinds of things. Normally, when it comes to political culture, it is actually about political culture. The most marked examples of this political culture are undoubtedly regular leaps in Tallinn City Council. It's like some kind of black hole, Tallinn City Council is like a black hole, where all things go in one direction only. The commissioners of the other parties somehow land in the ranks of the Centre Party. The final example is Mart Luik, who fell away from the Fatherland before the finish line, before the final leg of local governments. But before that, the main donor has been the Social Democratic Party faction from which people have gone. The last known name was Rainer Vakra. But there's also been flashing back and forth. Which one of us doesn't make either pain or laughter when we mention the name Borodich? As Edgar Savisaar once said, people like him are produced in six months. Of course, the Tallinn Council is not the only place where such a political culture can be seen. Perhaps the reason is simply that: Tallinn as the capital and Tallinn as a rich city and Tallinn as a city, where the Tallinn Council and the Tallinn City Government are located near the offices of newspapers and media editorials, this is where the news exceeds the news threshold better. But we do know these leaps and self-sellings from Narva, Jõhvi and Kohtla-Järve. But we can also take some small, significantly smaller places, where, let's say, the political loyalty to the promises that have been made before the elections, or to the people with whom the elections have been held, is sometimes something that does not stand up to the time test. It's such a berber, I'd say. How do you fix it? The good waitress, Eduard Odines, also read some of the practical ways to achieve this. I'd say it was next to me... I actually expected a bit more discussion or a more general philosophical debate on how to improve political culture. Such practical rules will no doubt contribute, because neither political culture can be created by saying that we are now going to create a new political culture. No, no, no. There is no doubt that political culture is also made up of rules. Human nature is that it reacts to two things: positive and negative motivation. If you do something that's ugly, but it benefits you and it's not punished, you'll do it again. But if you do something that's ugly and benefits you and is punished, you'll start calculating whether the punishment is more severe or less severe than the benefits you get. I think we have a major problem with the fact that the penalties for bad political decisions or for political non-culturalism have been too low. But now the question is, who should this punisher be? The answer is actually very simple: the punisher should be the voter. And now we reach the weakest place in all our political culture. The voter does not punish the defection, the voter does not punish corruption, the voter does not punish it, the voter cannot punish Rainer Vakra or [Deniss] Borodichi, well simply cannot be punished, they are no longer running, they have become, say, politically untouched when expressing themselves by the expression of the Indian social system. But the voter could and will be punished by the party that has made these offers, after all, this cultural deprivation is borne by some group that has exercised power. It could be punished by the voter. And the voter could still punish those people who run from one place to another. Now, I don't want to put a stamp on all the people who've ever changed a party. We ourselves have people in the party who say: "But my worldview has never changed, just the party in which I was in my time has gone somewhere very left or in some other color than when I joined it. That's what life's been like. " In the case of municipal councils, of course, we usually do not see such a principle; there are much more pragmatic arguments. How, then, do we help the electorate to carry out this punishment? I think it's easy. It must be white enough to go and say: "You see, they did so; we have not done so and are not going to do so. " And then political culture will be revived by political competition. Look, political competition has Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U294	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U295	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Undoubtedly, the impact of this law is very important and very large. Not only in the sense that he has now launched at the end of 212, although indisputably this is actually one of the very important effects that this 212 was triggered, but it is a signal, and it is no less important that we say in this Chamber that corruption is not an act that we should accept in local governments. If we do not tackle corruption every day, it is unfortunate that it is in its nature to grow. And indeed, through political culture, there would be much to regulate. This is certainly to be welcomed, and in our municipalities, which are very different, this political culture would rise. Unfortunately, life has shown that it is not possible to improve quality here either without legislation. The clearer the boundaries, the less the grey area, and the less there really is, you could say, the freedom of political culture that can be exploited. The second point I would like to emphasise is the links. Indeed, we can never foresee all the links, and no law can reveal the effects and consequences of all the links. But the fact that in our draft 212, however, for a council member who is employed by a municipality government or a municipality government with a contract of employment, we will only suspend [the powers], not give him the obligation to decide whether he will elect a council or continue in the municipality government and his council member's mandate in that case, if he decides to continue in the municipality on the basis of a contract of employment, we will actually leave this gray area here. We leave an opportunity and a very clear link here too to abuse this freedom of political culture. This could have been another part of this draft or a thoughtful part of how to avoid such indirect influences. That's, I dare say, the only flaw in this good bill right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U296	Martin Helme, do you have a procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U297	Mr President-in-Office, I had such an unfortunate story that I forgot to say in my speech during the negotiations that we are proposing rejection. We have done this in writing, but I will say from the point of view, in addition to my negotiations, that we are proposing rejection on behalf of the EKRE.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U298	Indeed, such an accident happened; you did not say that during the negotiations. If you read the letter of the law, I should dismiss it now. But realizing that we are not going to have another debate here with you on whether it is fair or not, I hope you will draw your own conclusions from this. And indeed this writing has come. I'm closing the negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen, The commission has proposed that the first reading be closed. Henn Põllaas, do you have a procedural question? I'm sorry! The commission has proposed that the first reading be stopped, but the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia has proposed to reject the draft 397 at first reading and this requires a decision by the Chamber. Mr. Pier.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U299	I ask for a ten-minute break before the vote and, as always, for a verification of attendance at the additional sitting.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U300	We will carry out the verification of presence before the vote, i.e. after the break. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U301	Ladies and gentlemen, before we can go to the proposal of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to reject this draft at first reading, we must carry out a verification of the presence, as such a request did indeed come from the EKRE Group. So the presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U302	Although it seems to me visually that we are more present, 59 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present. We can continue the trial. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to reject the draft 397 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U303	The rejection was supported by 15 members of the Riigikogu, 55 against and 2 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. We have completed the first reading of Bill 397. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 4 p.m. on 29 June.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U304	We are moving rapidly to the second item on the agenda, which is the draft law amending the Information Society Service Act, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic, 359 and we have a third reading. I'm opening negotiations. Mart Helme, please! Mart Helme, please, you may come.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U305	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable faces in the hall! Draft 359 is worded as a law amending the Information Society Service Act. And again, as in most cases, this is apparently an innocent thing. But really? We always ask if it really is. In some cases, it is exactly as the proverb says: "Pious water, deep north. " And so is this bill. There's no pious water even here. What conclusions can we draw from this bill? Conclusion No 1: The sovereignty of Estonia is shrinking like a fat candle, which still burns shorter and shorter in a dark and cold night. If we read this bill, there are still a whole series of directives and decisions and regulations that all come from far away. When you step down at the airport, you will see: Brussels, the heart of Europe. But by my modest geographical definition, neither Brussels nor Belgium is the heart of Europe. The centre of Europe is still somewhere else. If I remember correctly, I think he's in Lithuania somewhere. We must always consider Europe as a continental whole and in this continental whole what we are treating more and more as Europe today and in Estonia is, in fact, the Eurasian Peninsula. By the way, the well-known American geopolitics of the Cryphal George Friedman in his books and articles also writes: The Peninsula, the Peninsula. Europe as a peninsula, which depends on the movements of the continental mass behind it, both in geological and, in fact, in demographic and political terms. If we go back to history, we will see how Rome fell as a result of the migration of nations, and now we will see how other continents, such as Africa, Latin America, are being added to globalisation, as Europe is again falling into the current of demographic movements. And as Mikhail Veller, a very well-known Russian-speaking author related to Estonia, nothing else has happened to Europe but the most terrifying: there is a broken spirit. There's a broken spirit and there's a broken spirit. And it's depressing, and that's what I wanted to get to when I said, first of all, that the liberal forces are importing this break in spirit and spirituality here, among other things, in the form of this bill. That's a first. Now for two. We will see, step by step, the various drafts that we are dealing with here, and the following is, of course, the most flagrant one, this draft ABIS, but we will see in this draft, but also in the case of the NETS draft, in the case of the HOS draft, in the case of the Media Services Act, and we will be able to look more and more for a whole set of items that have hidden away in a single section, in a single wording, this and also indicated in the case of this institution, the institution that must bring us and assure us of the establishment of a big brother and the opening of our lives, the monitoring of the concentration of our lives. So it's... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U306	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U307	So it's for those who have usurped their power and authority and who think they have the right to control and lead society and that they have to get everything that goes on about us, everything that goes on about us. It's terrifying, and it's in this bill. This agency is specifically the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority. Does it look familiar to all those involved in the Media Services Act? I'm sure it looks familiar. Censorship authority, supervisory authority, penalty authority, consumer protection and technical monitoring authority. And it has also been pointed out how thick they have the right to then slap: EUR 640 for a natural person, EUR 100000 for a legal person. That's two. And third. Thirdly, we too seem to have, if we are so loosely prepared to accept all of this, the spirit and spirituality are broken. I am delighted, I have the great pride to represent this party, the group whose spirit and spirituality have not broken. This is, of course, the Estonian Conservative People's Party. Our spirit and our spirituality, our fight for Estonia's sovereignty, our fight for the rights of the Estonian people, our fight for people's personal freedoms and human rights is what we are doing here today also in discussion, questioning, giving speeches. And I want to say more. Our press has fallen to a depressing level. It is not a press, it is a propaganda group as a whole, whether we take one group, which is a Postimees group or an Estonian Express or Express Group group or an ERR group, all of them are actually propaganda institutions. They are not engaged in the transmission of information as originally intended, impartially. They are clearly involved in the planning of information operations, in influencing society on the basis of a certain socio-political paradigm. And that's what we see in this law. And they say there's something horrible going on right now. Can you imagine there's a speech going on here, there's a questioning going on here! But what's horrible about it? That's why we're here to give speeches, ask questions, and cross different views as swords. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U308	But now we're out of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U309	Yeah, I understand I'm getting kicked out of this walkie-talkie. I'd love to talk for hours. I'm almost like Caesar who could speak, write, and listen at the same time. I'll stop this time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U310	We have another speech in the negotiations, but before that, a procedural [question] has arisen. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U311	Thank you, good manager. I don't know how many times I'm reminding you and asking for different directors, but the congregation, especially at my right hand, sometimes cannot control its excitement and is very vocal. Sometimes it's quieter again, but please call more bells.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U312	Okay, my bell hand is getting more active. Ruuben Kaalepi has a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U313	Thank you, Mr President. A few hours ago, we had a very long and meaningful and multifaceted discussion with the Chairman of the Riigikogu, and one of the important aspects that was discussed was the vote that took place the day before yesterday, during which I find the content and meaning of the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, because my colleague, Henn Põljaas, was not allowed to make a proposal for a ten-minute break during the period allowed by the Home and Working Rules Act. Yesterday, the Riigikogu Board made a statement that clearly, in my opinion again, the President of the Riigikogu acted in violation of the Law on Home and Working Procedures. I asked him this in the form of procedural questions, and again I have to assess that he was evasive from giving an answer. I would like to know the different views on this in the Riigikogu Board. Was there a violation of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, and if such an infringement occurred by the President of the Riigikogu, what should be the consequences?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U314	I believe that this was discussed almost exhaustively, but as can be read in the letter sent by the Riigikogu Board to the members of the Riigikogu as an explanation, there is no difference of opinion in the Riigikogu Board. Indeed, the Rules of Procedure must be interpreted as meaning that it is possible to take a break until the opening of the vote, whether or not a call sign has been heard before. Indeed, it makes sense that the call sign invites the ambassadors to the hall, and when they arrive in the hall, they can only begin to take a break. But it must also be taken into account that a long and uniform tradition, or let's say practice, has been in the Riigikogu that it is actually taking a break before a call. So that's the summary. The Board of the Riigikogu also called on the ambassadors to continue with the usual practice, i.e. to take into account the work practice we have had so far. I couldn't take part in the procedural debate all the time this morning, I had another business in the meantime, so I don't know where the mea culpa came from, but let's not force mea culpa out of the people. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U315	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, My colleague Mart Helme raised the plank very high, talking about the Roman Empire. I go further in time, to Alexander the Great. It was then customary to give speeches in a way that was distributed pro and contra. At first, of course, pro. I fully share my colleague's opinion on our Estonian media and could not say better than one of the gentlemen who served as a general in the United States who, when he left Estonia, said everything about it that needs to be known about the Estonian media at all. Point two. Yes, I am not a fan of the European Parliament either. I think, over the last few years, looking at the decisions that europarlamento in particular takes, well, the devil, it's a branch of some madhouse. But then again, like us, they sometimes do beautiful things and here comes this contra. I was a rapporteur for the Committee on Economic Affairs on this issue, and I can say that, firstly, the information services that are mentioned there are precisely those [services] that are received by ordinary people as a matter of priority. And these measures, which are mentioned in the directive and in the regulation, are also good for us. The fact that they have been adopted by the European Parliament and the European Commission is not the basis for them to be expelled if they are good. They are really good, they protect the recipient. The penalty rates, which were mentioned briefly, have been adjusted according to the general trend. Our penalty rates are very, very behind. If we do not do so, [these measures will not be adopted], the Estonian state will be in a much worse position than our partners, who will also be our competitors in the European Union. This means that we simply have to do this in order to protect both the recipient and the provider of our service. In this Chamber, strangely enough, I did not get any questions at first or second reading. It is all the more pleasant for me to come out here and say that, yes, I do not like to go numbly following all kinds of euro regulations and other documents, but in this case we are doing quite the right thing. And I remembered what else I wanted to say. The Roman Empire fell apart in the fifth century, if my memory is not deceived, then 476 is considered to be when it actually happened. The point is, the people of the empire who were in that territory didn't know they were falling apart for several, many, many, many, many, many, many years. Only in the 18th century did wise people conclude that this took place in the 5th century. Otherwise, it was unknown. So I call for the support of a good law, normal and suitable for Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U316	Thank you. I'll give the reply to Mart Helme first.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U317	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I thank Mikhail Stalnukhin! My little performance served its purpose, we got a little discussion here. Of course, I do not really agree that the Romans did not know [that the country fell apart]. I think the Roman Emperor, who was killed, knew very well when he took his last breath, that he was killed and that the line of a certain dynasty ended, and so on, but let's not get into the finals of history. What I want to say is that I also think that the European Union, the European Parliament, does not know for some time after it has fallen apart, that it has fallen apart, and that just as the Roman Senate did for some time after the fall of the Roman Empire, so the europarlamento is going together, and the European Commission is still working on directives, only that no one is complying with them anymore. We're on our way. But as far as the specific draft is concerned, I actually just referred to a number of bases that he has, but we are not fundamentally opposed by our group. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U318	Thank you. Reply is two minutes. I started too early [calling], the bell finger is too active. Peter Ernits, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U319	Thank you. [I have] an important procedural question. Mr Stalnukhin's speech was very interesting, but when he spoke in favour and against and when he spoke about the Roman Empire, which fell apart, he did not understand whether he politely referred to the substantive breakdown of the current coalition, which most themselves do not understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U320	Of course, it wasn't procedural. We are slipping into negotiations, but only the political groups can speak in the negotiations. Mr Stalnukhin, however, was mentioned, so I give the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U321	Thank you. The point is that the Roman Empire was formally divided into the Empires of Eastern Rome and Western Rome somewhere in the third century. There were two emperors. And then, when the Western Empire, whose headquarters were in Rome, ceased to exist, the Roman Empire remained at the center of Byzantion. It persisted until the 15th century when Byzantion was conquered by the Turks. So we can talk about it exactly in those words that I've been talking about, even though I'm not a historian and I shouldn't. But my colleague is not a historian either.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U322	Yes, 1453, if I remember correctly. But, ladies and gentlemen, we come back to the bill. Third reading of Bill 359 of the Amendment to the Information Society Service Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. Please take a stand and vote. Whoops, salikutsung. And before that, Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U323	Thank you. Look how glad we didn't have to argue about the rules of procedure here and demand justice. I thank the President-in-Office and my humble request is to take a ten-minute break on behalf of the EKRE Group before the vote and, of course, as a good practice calls for in such additional sessions, also to carry out a verification of presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U324	Here's what we're gonna do. Ten minutes break. I'll see you. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we will carry out a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U325	61 members of the Riigikogu noted that they were present. We can now go to the final vote on the third reading of Bill 359 SE. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U326	There are more votes in favour than there are. The draft supports 70 ambassadors, no votes against, with one abstention. The bill has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U327	Now we've reached the right fishing waters. The next item is the second reading of the Bill 366 on Amendment of the Identity Documents Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other Acts. I call Andrei Korobeinik, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as rapporteur. Please! Oh, I can't do that yet. I'm sorry! Henn Põllaasa is a procedural one.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U328	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Now we've come to this evil root, which is why the EKRE is carrying out this obstruction. For several days now, we have been asking very carefully about all the drafts and giving speeches and, in fact, not preventing Parliament's work, but doing what is normally supposed to be done, perhaps still looking to the roots of all the drafts and questions. But from this hall, we and the Fatherland have repeatedly come up with such suggestions that perhaps we can still reach some sort of compromise with the coalition. We're ready for this. We're willing to stop this obstruction in just a minute, and everyone can go on a nice vacation. Let's get back to normal work. Our goal has only been to prevent such a total orwellian dystopian surveillance society. And if we really come to a compromise with the coalition, then normal work would continue. I have a suggestion that maybe you could take half an hour to get less of these negotiations, call the Bureau, and discuss the possibility of compromise so that we can return to the normal rhythm of work.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U329	Thank you. A very generous proposal, but it is remembered that we had twice a ten-minute break this morning, and during this break the Bureau met, and there was also talk about this proposal, and the debate did not show that anyone's positions had softened. So I have no reason to believe that anyone's views have changed in the meantime. It doesn't make any sense right now, but as soon as it makes sense, of course, we'll take a break and discuss it. Paul in the woodland is a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U330	Good Martin! As a member of the board, you may be able to answer me, I believe that is what the entire Estonian people want to know. We had a situation, and that's what I asked Jüri when he was in front of it, that the EKRE protested to the Bureau that it was probably a breach of the constitutional rule when a number of amendments were completely illegally incorporated, and then Jüri replied that yes, they discussed it on the board. I understand you're aware of that. In the Bureau they discussed this and they sent this matter back to the same committee where the offence took place. At the same time, the same item is already on our agenda. So logic works so that the Commission can discuss this problem, but then it has passed [winter] snow, this train is gone. How does that logic work? How can the Riigikogu, which makes laws for the people, work by such logic? How do you understand that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U331	Yeah, it's a complicated bunch. On the one hand, neither I nor any other member of the Bureau shall count from the Rules of Procedure any way in which the Bureau should deal with such protests, because we do not have such protests in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. On the other hand, we all understand that it is a bit hypocritical to send a protest to a committee where the violation took place, where we should start discussing the so-called own matter. And the third is, of course, this sequence of time. However, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is expected to meet on Monday morning in accordance with its Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure. I very much hope that he will also be able to discuss this issue. And the Commission can always make proposals on the agenda on Monday at 3 a.m. on this draft. So, before the next week's agenda is adopted and before the third reading, assuming we finish the second, the Commission will be able to address this issue. At least we very much hope that the Commission will do this. Tarmo Kruusimäe has a procedural [question].
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U332	Yeah. I hope all ambassadors will be treated equally. I've been told many times that I can't get to the hall with my drink, but I'll see that the waitress has come with her drink. How is it now? Or is it a sample from [place] where these data are collected? Then I'd understand. But if it's a drink, then the ambassadors should be treated equally.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U333	Yeah, that's a good point, we do, and we have our own water proposed there, totally healthy. I have a request to the waitress not to put the jar there. Thank you. The rules are the same for everyone. Paul Puustusmaa, please, procedural [question]!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U334	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have another question of principle. I understand that there is nothing more embarrassing and embarrassing than the fact that a member of the Riigikogu or a political group is addressing the Supreme Court in order to settle the dispute that has taken place here in the House of the Riigikogu. It's extremely embarrassing, we should handle our own business. But the prerequisite for this is that we respect each other's wishes, and we follow the rules, and that makes sense, because we also make the laws logically. And that is why the question is, has there ever been practice in the Riigikogu that members of the Riigikogu refer to the Riigikogu, for example, what is going on in the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U335	I don't have such extensive Supreme Court practice with knowledge, but I don't think so. One reason is that direct recourse to the Supreme Court is very narrowly regulated at all. But I might be wrong. Estonian legislative practice and the practice of the Supreme Court will soon be 30 years. That's what makes it hard to turn. Peter Ernitsa also has a procedural [question].
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U336	Thank you. As we know, one of the parties to the current coalition government helped to initiate the "Drinks in the Car." My question is, is the arrival of the performer, Mr. Korobenik, in the hall with his drink, counterbalanced by the fact that the drinks are in the hall. But the specific question is, can I continue to come to the hall with my drink and everyone else, of course?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U337	I don't see it very well, but it seems to me that my colleague Andrei Korobeinik responded nicely to the offer to put away his drink. He's put it away, I get it. So let's just stick to the fact that we have an agreed custom that doesn't bring food and drink into the hall. We always have a glass of water for those who perform on this remote control. Now, we can go to the second reading of the bill. Please, Andrei Korobeinik!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U338	That's great news. Good chairman of the sitting! Good ambassadors! In these days, we have become like one big family, and the better I am to introduce to you what took place during the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the 366 draft. I have a lot of materials, but since this is quite a technical draft, I'm not going to go into the details. I will tell you in general what took place at the sittings. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs met three times in preparation for the second reading and the debate was much more thorough than before the first reading. The meetings took place on Thursday 3 June at 8 a.m., Thursday 3 June at 2 a.m. and Friday 4 June at 13 a.m. In addition to the members of the committee, Mr Kingo, who defended the amendments tabled, and Ruth Annus, Head of the Citizenship and Migration Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior, participated in the first meeting. So much for history that the draft passed the first reading in plenary on 21 April and the deadline for amendments was 5 May. There were 110 amendments by the EKRE and 20 amendments by my honourable colleague, Kalle Grünthal. And then, during these Commission meetings, the Commission also tabled three amendments. At first, since it took several weeks, we recalled what would be necessary in the future database. There will be biometric data and other data. Biographical data will remain in other databases, and this is particularly important from a security point of view. This history is quite long. As early as 2017, the government discussed the creation of ABIS, and then there was a debate about whether a change of law would be necessary. It was concluded that there is probably not, but, for the sake of clarity, this could still be done through legislation. There was a debate about how secure ABIS database is and who and under what conditions can access it. During the discussion, representatives of the Ministry of the Interior replied that the rules would not change significantly, for example, from 2012 biometric data could be processed with the permission of the prosecutor in criminal proceedings and this situation would not change. The proposals that were subsequently presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs were then reached. There were three of them. The first amendment concerned that data inherited from ABIS would not remain in other systems, so that they would not be in two places on the basis of security. The second amendment concerned a transitional period for other systems to be used in parallel until 2025 in order to ensure that this transition was smooth and that data did not disappear during the transitional period. And if anything happens, we have a backup, so to speak. The third amendment concerned the date of entry into force. As the debate gained momentum after the first reading, it was proposed to keep the date of entry into force on 15 July. There was then a brief debate on how to table amendments, who would be entitled to do so first. It was not quite clear who was going to defend the EKRE proposals, and then it was agreed that the Commission would continue on the same day and so it would continue on 3 June at 2:00. The guests were the same, but there was also Kert Kingo in the Commission, who presented the EKRE amendments. At the beginning of the second sitting, the chairman of the committee, Toomas Kivimägi, proposed a procedural decision on the draft, which gave rise to a lively discussion, as the amendments had not been voted through by then. This debate was not very long. There was also a vote and a decision that the draft would be sent to the Chamber by Wednesday 9 June. At 5: 2, this decision was made. It's Saturday. But here we are. After that, a good colleague of Paul Puustusmaa made such a gentlemen's proposal that all the EKRE proposals could be voted through at the same time. But Toomas Kivimägi did not accept it and then each amendment was voted separately. After that, Mr Kingo presented the amendments very thoroughly and also voted on them. These amendments were somewhat grouped there in the meantime. But there was a vote. The amendments were very diverse, some concerned who would have access to the data, some concerned the duplication of data, etc., etc. However, since we are expected to be able to examine each amendment for at least 10 minutes, I am not going to introduce them separately here. At the end of the second sitting, another vote took place and it was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda. At the third meeting, which took place on Friday, 4 June, we continued with amendments that were not yet voted through, 52 amendments from the ECR and three amendments from the Commission. The vote took place at a rapid pace, the whole session took a little over an hour. The most exciting part is at the end. The following procedural decisions were decided at the end of the sitting. The Commission proposed to conclude the second reading of the draft. There were 5 people in favour and 2 against. And the second decision was that, when the second reading of the draft is closed, the Commission will propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and that the final vote be taken on 16 June, which is already next week. There were 5 people in favour of this decision, and 2 people opposed it. Thank you very much for your patience, and I will see that a few questions have already been received.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U339	Yeah, there are questions. Tarmo Kruusimäe first, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U340	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Could you also introduce to other ambassadors, which studies are based on the iron knowledge that this new system or database will not be affected by errors where data has been collected, but the first number of the personal identification code will simply change? We have heard from the media that it turns out that the first number of a person's social security number is not three, but four, which means that it is as if he has changed sex. There are mistakes with similar names. I don't think it would have happened maliciously, but there are some kind of anomalies. If we put them all together there and the anomalies don't come out in the first swing during the transition period because a person doesn't need a new document, but later comes out, it's very hard to prove that you're a man when you're born to be a woman.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U341	Thank you for your question. I also do not believe that malicious gender-exchange operations are taking place in Estonia. But when it comes to personal data, they just don't exist in the database. There are only biometric data and personal data are elsewhere. If they're not there, they can't leak. This is an important aspect of this database.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U342	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U343	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Why is it so quick to create this super-database, an automated biometric identification system database? Why would you want to ram it through so badly with raw force? However, it is clear that a significant part of the parliament and an increasing number of Estonian people are opposed to this law. There are many questions in the air about the substance of the draft and about the large amount of money, about millions for which something considerably more useful could be done. The savior's raise was canceled. Our medical staff might need that money instead. Why is it so awfully urgent? Why do you want to ram it through this Parliament with raw force? I would like very clear answers on why it is so urgent. Why is there no time left for Parliament to debate? It was proposed that we take it out of [the day], retake it, review the amendments. Why are you pushing it through with raw force?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U344	Well, personally, I am not pushing anything through here and the Commission has not reached information on society's resentment. When I got to Parliament this morning, there was no crowd out there either. But it's possible that this information is true. This need is due to the fact that these old databases are just good old. The technology is developing very quickly, and if you use technology that's decades old, the risk of something leaking is pretty high. As my good colleague Mr Kruusimäe mentioned, there is a risk. When newer technology comes, there's always this risk, but it's much smaller.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U345	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U346	Thank you. Dear waitress, I have almost the same question as the previous speaker that I really do not understand why this register is so intrusive, at all costs and what is needed right now. I really don't understand. It's very specific, here we need to talk calmly, maybe we need to introduce, discuss some of these things, and maybe everything would be okay. My question is that, in fact, we are an IT state and very secure, we have e-elections and all the other things, too, except for some minor mistakes like ID-cards. But I'm asking if there may be any agreement that this register will be managed by a particular player, such as Spin TEK, as in the case of the pet register. I remember that even during the pet register, we had a bit of a debate on this subject. If this register were national, the state would develop it, I might even believe it. But right now, I'd like to ask a lot of questions and explain.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U347	Indeed, the question was about the same and the answer is similar. I mean, it's not a miracle. As far as this second part is concerned, the Commission did not discuss a particular service provider. I assume that, when it comes to public order, these procedures are quite in place and there is still no pre-selected service provider. In the case of the pet register, I assume it was the same. Unfortunately, the law has not yet been passed, but I very much count on the support of the EKRE.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U348	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U349	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Dear waitress, If I look at what kind of data our Defence Forces are going to have to provide, I find it hard to understand who we are collecting the data from, and if really the Defence Forces are one particularly dangerous group that we definitely need to map out very precisely so that it is possible to know what they are doing or not doing. But I would also ask for the answer to which studies have been based on this draft, that the Defence Forces are one of the very potential offenders, that we must very precisely start putting this data into databases. I assume you still have some kind of research on the basis of which it was put together. Please tell me more.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U350	Thank you. I have also mentioned in my report that it does not change with this draft, from whom and on what basis this data is collected. If we have any doubts or problems, they can be discussed and resolved, but unfortunately they are not absolutely related to this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U351	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U352	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Andrei! When the police's weapons record began to be established in its own time, we fought to prevent the Defence League's weapons register from going into it, because there is always fear that something is leaking out, and if there is a certain situation, then they will simply be accessed and our enemies will be able to get close to it. And it's exactly the same with this register. It makes our country's citizens vulnerable when certain situations may arise. You replied to Tarmo Kruusimäe that these things concerning the biometric data database and the personal data database are not related and are separate items. But actually, they're connected, we're honest, because without a human being, there's no biometric connection, so the personal data database and the biometric database end up coming together, and that's where we're gonna find the arsenal database. If these hackers are doing the right thing, we'll be in a very bad place in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U353	Once again: I have already answered this question twice, but I will also answer the third time that no one will collect new data. They have already been collected in separate databases today and this situation is not changing. Indeed, if the hackers operate very efficiently, the data may be stolen, but the fact that the data has been broken up is roughly the same as your email address and social networking account. They belong to one person, but they're located in two separate information systems, and in order to get them, you have to hack into both. It still significantly reduces this probability, not twice, but by order of magnitude. So in this sense, this new database actually increases security by breaking up the data and stealing it, you have to steal it from different places, not from one.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U354	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U355	Thank you very much, Mr President. My dear Andrei! You've just misled the people when you said that Pulgin County proposed at the committee meeting the idea of voting for the EKRE amendments at the same time, because the truth is, of course, you can argue against it, but by looking at the protocol, the truth is that Pulginland said at the committee to vote at the same time... The text is literally: "... approve all amendments tabled by the ECRE Group at the same time. " It's a fundamental difference. It's because of protocol. But you can argue if you want. I don't want to argue. But the question. It was because of the protocol, as I said, but the question, Andrei, is also there. Since we voted on the amendments in advance in such a way that the Commission had to take a decision on whether it was right or wrong to merge, whether it was lawful or not, there was a similar discrepancy. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Tell me, good Andrei, do you see any legal impediments to the question of whether this addition is legal or not, voting again here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U356	Thank you, good Paul! We had a similar debate when you were part of the old Committee on Constitutional Affairs and we had another draft, namely the draft marriage referendum, where we were so rapidly grouping things. There were many amendments, but few of them came. So we've already been there, and that's the path we've been through. And whether we vote in the hall or not, I'm probably not qualified to answer. I guess it all went away that time. But now, as far as the first half of it is concerned, yes, you really proposed to approve all the proposals made by the ECRE. But if it goes to the vote like this and the Commission does not support you for any incomprehensible reason, then the Commission's debate on these proposals would probably end. But that did not happen because the chairman of the committee wanted a more in-depth discussion and he rejected your gentlemen's proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U357	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U358	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Andrei! My question concerns the members of the frame defence forces who are engaged in demining work. You were absolutely right when you claimed that there would be no new data on them, so everything that was collected so far will continue to be collected. But the problem is, right now, these data are in a separate, small database, which they're trying to secure accordingly. There is a concern that if they go into a large database, such a mega database, or even a meta database, is much more difficult to secure than a smaller specific database. Doesn't this place pose an unnecessary security risk?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U359	Thank you. No. I've answered this first half four times and the second two times, but, well, why not repeat it? If you have data all along with names, fingerprints, then if [these data] are stolen, you know quite a lot about these people. If only half of [data] is stolen, i.e. biometric data, this risk is much lower. You've got prints, but what do you do with them? Now, these little databases are pretty old, and their security risk is considerably higher. It's just that people don't have that competence anymore. In the IT world, things are changing so much and so quickly that the management of such systems is becoming increasingly risky every year.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U360	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U361	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, In my time, when I was introduced to this bill, we were talking about creating a new single database because these old databases' IT developments have become obsolete, they are on the verge of collapse, they need to be constantly updated and it is very expensive. And then we shut down the rest of the databases. The situation is now that a super-data base is being created, but these old ones are not being shut down. Now all of a sudden, they're not in such a bad situation anymore, and they don't have to be fixed, and it's not expensive. In short, we are making a 17-million-dollar expenditure of the same size as we are cutting defence costs, and at the same time we are continuing to maintain old databases, to set up, to spend current expenditure on them. And we'll create another [database]. It's not a rational thing to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U362	Thank you. Well, since other data are in other databases, certainly a large part of the databases will remain, for example, a population register with data on people. Now, this transition period is until 2025 and this risk is not so absolute in this sense that some databases are newer, some are older and this risk simply increases over time. If we came back to this issue in, for example, five years, this risk would already be significantly higher. So it's not the end date where everything falls apart, it's the risk that just increases every day.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U363	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U364	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Rene Chef asked you why they collect DNA samples from the militia and what they do to them and where they're stored. You answered him that taking samples of the DNA of the Defence Forces is absolutely not related to this draft that we are discussing here. Well, that's great. But in that case, I would like to know exactly which database and where these DNA data of the Defence Forces, the conscripts will be stored, and if all the databases are still to be connected, all these biometrics and other personal identification data are intended to be pooled into ABIS, then, in fact, in the end, they all go there. How about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U365	Thank you. Good Henn, you got it all wrong. First of all, it wasn't a question of DNA, and there's no DNA in ABIS' database. Secondly, the databases are not collapsed, they are broken up. This is an important aspect. And what the Estonian state collects about people in different target groups is not the scope of this draft. This bill does not change whose data is collected. In cases where it is necessary to know what [data] is collected, for example, about the armed forces, it is probably better to examine it from the relevant authorities. But within the framework of this draft, the Commission has not discussed it at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U366	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U367	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You have stressed on several occasions that new data will not be collected. A lot of amendments, including those that I have written, concerned the collection of ophthalmic data. And that is also my question: why could it not have been the Commission to collect or prohibit eye iris data? And the second part of the question: has there ever been a collection of eye iris data in Estonia, or is it currently collected in databases?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U368	Thank you. As far as I know, this is not done in Estonia at state level, it is done through private solutions and if necessary. This is certainly not massive in Estonia. ABIS doesn't have access to this data right now. What the country will collect, whom and when it will not regulate. This bill regulates how access to existing data is guaranteed, not how new data is collected, which is not yet collected by anyone. What the future holds, I don't know, 50 years from now, I don't know how to predict this remote control.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U369	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U370	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! The answer you gave me is astonishing. It's still so confusing, so big a.k.a., two more dots. So we're collecting unpersonalized biometric data. We have a couple hundred million prints, but we don't know who they belong to, and we pick up all those other things, but we don't tie them. This isn't an art project. I understand there's some kind of data, but maybe it's just as smart to pick up pigeon tracks. So if you don't have a thing, what's the point of unpersonalized biometric data? Or is it just a glitch? Or is it a deliberate deception of the ambassadors?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U371	No, I have not used this "unpersonalised" in my reply, but this answer, I can also give it a second time then, is that if today all the data is in one database, whether there are now a few hundred million, I doubt it, it is such an optimistic idea of the size of Estonia, but there is still a little bit there. In the future, they will be separate, so biometric data will be in one place and then biographical data will be in another place. They're not in one place, and when someone steals, they only steal half of them. So when he steals biometric data, he doesn't know who they belong to because he doesn't have biographical data. I hope it's clear now, but if it isn't, I'm really, really sorry.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U372	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U373	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, We understand that technical issues are being addressed here, and IT solutions need to be improved and built up. But the current Minister of the Interior, Kristian Jaani, has said to the public that it needs to be dealt with so quickly now that the major developments will collapse immediately. My question is, how does this coincide with the image of our superb e-state, which is still being sold in the world, from Greenland to Africa? Even the President went around Africa and tried to sell our solutions there, with e-governance argument and image. However, in the case of ABIS, it is argued that if it is not adopted immediately in the spring, the current IT solutions will collapse. Has Minister Jaani lied, or do we have an e-state problem that no one knows? Did the Minister in the Commission explain in this argument why it is necessary to proceed with this draft so quickly?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U374	Thank you. I have already answered a rather similar question. The risk is not one that occurs on a specific date, it simply increases over time. This draft was long under preparation, and the honourable Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme, has made his contribution to it some time ago. And this whole plan is actually from 2017 and that's when it's been four years, and it's not that fast, but it's really going to increase that risk. What's the reason? It is that the e-solutions of the Estonian state are quite old and, if a country in the world started to create its own e-services today, it would definitely start with modern technology. But the Estonian state must step by step update these old solutions so that our e-services will continue to be reliable and secure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U375	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U376	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable waitress! How, then, will this information be aggregated? And how many people can access, on what basis?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U377	Thank you. The mathematics of access will not change, or the data will be accessed by the same people [who are now]. For the citizen, security increases by seeing who has made inquiries, except in the case of criminal proceedings. He won't see anything today. Now, if you think about security, maybe the police side is where there's a theoretical risk of a request being made, but you can't see it. But to do so, the police have surveillance mechanisms in place so that no one abuses this database. I think there were two questions, but I'm gonna answer the other one, because the first one just forgot, and the question probably needs to be...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U378	How will this data be combined if they are unpersonalized?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U379	Yeah. Again, I have answered that question. It's about the same situation that you have an email account and a social networking account in the same name. We know it's the same person, but the data is in separate databases and separate information systems. This is how the X-Road of our Estonian country works, where separate data are stored in separate databases, but they can be brought together through a joint protocol. For example, if you change your address in the DMV, it changes everywhere and you don't have to change it in every register. That is the principle of our e-Governance. Some old databases aren't working that way yet, but in the future, this principle is probably universal and all databases will go over it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U380	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U381	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I understand that [one] of the side effects of this draft may be what you referred to earlier in pointing out that there are no protesters outside. There will be no more anti-government protesters in the future, because the participants can quickly be identified by a single feature, even on camera, as he walks, by his face image. It's going to be a lot easier. But as far as the old bases are concerned, it seems to me that the old bases are still standing and that they will rather remain the back door where you can go to check people's data than have access without leaving a mark behind who has visited the data. It seems to me that this may already be the case for some kind of database, [for example] being able to look at the background of political competitors. But one important thing I would ask you. You have also acted in the IT sector yourself. Imagine if this data, all of these biometric data gets into someone's hands outside the state system. Recently, there was news that a facial image can identify a person's world-view preference, whether he is a liberal or a conservative, with a 71% probability. Postman's scientific news was written in January. And there were many other aspects that could be identified by pure facial image using artificial intelligence. Imagine if it falls into the wrong hands, what a database creates to manipulate society. It is well known that Mati needs to be approached from this side and Kat from this side to sell her something. I see here the real danger that whoever gets into the hands of this database could gain complete control of the mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U382	It's a long question, but the side of the question was kind of blurry. I haven't read this article about Postman. I have encountered this thinking a few times that, for example, the date of birth also determines all sorts of personal qualities. I'm pretty skeptical about it, to be honest. But, of course, you never know, the world is such a strange and surprising place.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U383	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U384	Thank you, Honourable Manager. Dear waitress, I am particularly interested in what biometric data we are talking about in this database. I understand that we are talking mainly about facial images and fingerprints, but at the same time we are also talking about DNA data, etc., all kinds of different data that can be added later. Now I understand that this draft does not impose any restriction on the addition of these data and of different forms at a later stage. Let me get this straight. The government can add all kinds of different forms of data to it at a later date, if it decides to do so. Is there really no limit to it for the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U385	Thank you, good Reuben! We don't talk about it, but you do. There was no mention of DNA or other data. Yeah, fingerprints and not real facial images, but facial images. This is an opportunity to identify whether or not the same person is involved, this image has been processed accordingly. But what kind of data the Estonian state collects, I will answer for the fifth time: this draft does not really regulate it. If there is a desire to prohibit or promise something, it can always be initiated by the Riigikogu and I think that the more draft laws come through the Riigikogu, the better. Then we will be working on substantive work, not on what we are doing here for several days.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U386	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U387	Thank you. Good waitress! However, I would ask for a little clarification as to who will use this database. Who are they, specifically, who are going to use it? I read in the paper that it can also be used by banks to identify customers. What guarantees that a private company that will do so and keep [data] will not, for example, trade with such data if it is beneficial to it? Is it also verifiable who visited the data, for example, if someone goes and examines the data?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U388	Thank you. I have already answered that last question. The person can see who made these enquiries, unless it is classified, for example in criminal proceedings. There will also be an obligation to notify. How it will be implemented is the second question that is absolutely not relevant to this draft. But there's no new contingent that gets access to the data, that bill doesn't create. I have already answered that question several times.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U389	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U390	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, good fellow citizen! I'm gonna use it to ask you a little bit sharper. We do not have everything against it automatically in the party; for us, everything that can be done to make the fight against crime more effective is very positive. But there are a number of questions and a number of things that get foggy. First of all, about security. We had a series of incidents last year where our same IT specialists were working, and now they're working on a new project. It's questioning whether there's a security problem here. But I have a number of sub-questions in this regard. Many members of the Defence Forces are affected by this and who carried out an impact assessment that it is safe and that it is a time win and a job savings? Who did these tests?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U391	It seemed like more than one question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U392	Try answering.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U393	What question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U394	Who did the impact analysis?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U395	I don't know. There are two questions, I think one can still be asked.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U396	Well, try answering.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U397	I'm in a difficult situation right now, but this security risk has been reduced by the fact that the data has been broken up, which is really in the IT world and in life you can't eliminate all the risks, but you can reduce them, and that's what the bill does. And now the second question concerned these target groups, and I have also replied several times that this bill does not create new target groups or take anything away from them. So these things have been regulated for a long time, they may be added, may be reduced, this bill absolutely does not deal with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U398	Now neither was answered. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U399	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Dear waitress, I'll continue with my last question. What kind of research is it still based on? Did the Defence Forces also carry out any research into the risks that the transfer of defence personnel's data from their current so-called smaller database to the large ABIS we are talking about now could involve? That's one question. And please, could you also point out the costs that the Estonian taxpayer will bear each year to keep these old databases running, and what will be the annual cost of maintaining this current database that is being created? So we can figure out what kind of money we're talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U400	Thank you. Good President, I do not approve of this practice. It is simply not in accordance with our Rules of Procedure that a number of questions are asked on one issue. I'll answer the last one, if I may. It's 15 million, it's budgeted, and it's largely planned.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U401	On the contrary, Andrei Korobenik, it is very common for us to have as many questions as possible pressed into one minute. You could try to answer as thoroughly as possible. After all, it is the point of this debate that, if the ambassadors have questions upstairs, they will be informed as well as possible. Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U402	I have two questions, too, but I don't know which one I'm gonna ask. I'll ask for a simpler one. The thing about the prints is that by August 1, they'll all have to be transferred from the database, I understand, to the new database, they'll be in the National Fingerprints Register. And then there's a transitional period of the year that practically everyone has to be transferred by 2022. How has this year been taken? Why a year? It could be done much faster, and there is no need to stall these things than to do. The second question is that, as far as I know, nine databases are currently in use in the Schengen visa area, and that, after all, the same time problems will end up in the same way. I don't know. I don't think they're going to be erased.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U403	Thank you. For no reason has every ambassador been given two questions. Otherwise, there would be ten of them, for example, and then you could ask for anything. But this is the complicated restrictive rules we have. This transition is essentially four years and the logic is that if anything happens, the data will not be lost. Indeed, several times it sounded like, how come these risks are so big, everything's going to collapse. Actually, it doesn't all collapse, but you know you don't have to develop these databases. If the database works correctly, you don't have to use the others anymore. However, in order not to lose data during the changeover, a transitional period will be granted to determine whether there is a problem. And if it is, you still have the backup. It's just so the data doesn't get lost.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U404	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U405	Good Andrei! I really like this ABIS. This is such a cool thing. I mean, how cool is it, we've got a 9-10 database right now and we're gonna put another one, 14 million, that's pretty cool. In particular, I like this option when I think about the perspective that, well, the Albanian prosecutor's office turns itself or through the European Public Prosecutor's Office to us and asks that you see, in their village, some limp old man stole six chickens, he has a green eye, it is good to look at [the database]. I understand this logic, but what I do not understand is [is] if I look at these standards here, it is written everywhere: biometric data entered in the database will be deleted as soon as the person is identified. Well, okay, we got this lame guy's hands, erase [data], and then we start collecting data on him again? There is no need to collect human data all the time, even if there is no connection with a person, simply collect data all the time to delete them immediately. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U406	No. But I can tell you more. The data you ask for will be deleted. You'll get them, and then they'll be erased from the system they arrived in, but they'll still be left in the original database, you won't have to recapture them there. That's the logic. And there is no ophthalmic data there, that is bad news in that sense for the Albanian prosecutor's office.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U407	Peter Ernitsal has a procedural [question]. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U408	Here's the question. The performer here said there's only one thing to ask in one question. That is why we have two questions at the moment. But, in my experience, a lot of colleagues here have included one question, I have not read it, but I think four or five questions. How is this thing regulated?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U409	It is regulated in such a way that the Rules of Procedure Act says that it is possible to ask two questions to the rapporteur, each within one minute. I am here in the second row, and I know that this one minute is often filled with three or four questions. And now the question of political culture is whether these questions are answered in substance, formally or not. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U410	Thank you. I have to say that both the waitress and the Minister of the Interior are wrestling when they say that nothing has been said about DNA in the bill. Yes, there are a number of paragraphs that are spoken of. For example, Section 4 (9) (8) which states clearly that [biometric data is recorded] in the national fingerprint record and DNA sample analysis data in the national DNA register. Then there are a number of other [paragraphs] that I will not list all of them in terms of time savings in terms of DNA sampling and data obtained by dactyloscopying and the procedure for transmitting DNA samples shall be laid down by regulation of the Minister responsible for the field. And here's the question. In today's People's Servants show, journalists also pointed out what is our great concern. In essence, this bill leaves open in the future the possibility of including DNA, eye iris, health data and your shopping habits in the register among all other data.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U411	Thank you. Indeed, we are changing the identity document law, and this law does speak of DNA, but this amendment, this bill does not really open up the subject of DNA. Yes, the Estonian state collects DNA in criminal proceedings, for example, but it does not enter the database. This bill regulates the creation of a database. I guess there was another question, but there were so many of them that I forgot.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U412	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U413	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! This ABIS plan is hidden in the dark in every way and, as the previous questioner said, leaves a lot of search and questioning, which is why people are anxious and do not understand this plan. A testimony to this is the dozens of people who are in front of this castle today protesting against it. But this Schengen fingerprint system has been working for about three years, and Estonia has been carrying its registers there, as the law provides, as the treaties provide. Why can't we put all our data into the Schengen system? It looks like someone's still trying to find out more. For example, I don't understand why a D.O.D.O. has a defense database. He doesn't have any need for a database of the Defence Forces. Is it still not in the air that this data has already been fed somewhere and that it has been used by ABIS or that it is simply being blackmailed in its cover? Convince us that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U414	This last part of the question was incomprehensible. But now a few aspects. First of all, no one gets a new access. So if the Department of Interior official didn't have access to the military data, it won't happen with the new database. Now, as far as the transfer of Estonian data to a foreign database is concerned, a number of amendments have been received from the EKRE which would prohibit it. They did not find the Commission's support. But I understand that you also have such a liberal party where there are differences of opinion, and in that sense it is probably a good thing that [this support] did not find, because the EKRE also thinks it might be possible to move them. But this is not happening now, so the data will remain in Estonia. By adopting this draft, the data will remain in Estonia, as the Commission did not support any other solution and you have not submitted this proposal in time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U415	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U416	Will biometric data be taken from visa applicants at embassies and added to the database to be created?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U417	I think we were talking about the Estonian embassies, I presume. The way a person applies for a visa does not change if biometric data, in particular fingerprints, are collected when applying for a visa. Then they get into that ABIS database. Today, if there is a separate database, the biometric content of this database can be accessed into the ABIS database.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U418	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U419	Thank you. Good waitress, you seem to be avoiding this issue, which is a list of the specific data that can be entered into this database, and whether or not the data is somehow limited. But do you realize that, if you insist that there is no such list, there is the greatest danger, because it allows basically unlimited collection of all kinds of biometric data on individuals. And when you say that, well, if that's a problem for you, the Riigikogu itself should introduce this amendment into another law. However, at the moment, since this particular draft, which is initiated by the Government and in which this restriction should be most important, has not been introduced, the government therefore has no interest in restricting its power and powers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U420	Thank you. I certainly will not avoid the debate. I answer every question well. I'll do everything I can. That list is there, it's fingerprints and facial images. And indeed there is no law in Estonia that, as far as I know, restricts the collection of other data. I absolutely do not believe that the government must decide how Estonia's life works. This is actually the legislative body, Riigikogu. We've spent quite a lot of time here now and last week. This is where such decisions can come from. I think it's starting to get quietly forgotten during the debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U421	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U422	Thank you. Good rapporteur, you said that this is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure when there are several questions on one issue. But I have been there myself, instead of you, when the opposition reform parties asked five questions in a row on one issue, and please answer. I'm asking you to take a paper and a pen with a number of questions. Is it possible to check the background for what reason anyone was looking at the data? What does the Foreign Intelligence Agency do with these data? What does the collection of data on police officers for which they are collected provide? What will be done with this data if each agency has everything it needs and can, if necessary, request further information from other authorities? Which server will they be stored on, and who will control this server?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U423	I did not mean that a number of questions are contrary to the Rules of Procedure. I meant that in the course of the question, you can certainly say other things, such as reading a book or simply not asking a question. But it just doesn't agree with the idea. The question was why the police wanted to collect this data in ABIS, if they already exist in their database. I have answered this question several times: it increases security. So when these data leak, they leak partially, not completely, and you can't easily match them, that is, a fingerprint and a person [to be put together]. But it still seems to me that if there is one question, there is one question. I'm amazed right now, sort of like a good colleague, Tarmo. I simply cannot answer five questions if there is one question. I can't remember them. When I start answering, I'm gonna focus on one question, but there's four more, and they just can't fit in my head.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U424	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U425	Thank you, good manager. Well, heads are all kinds. Some heads just pop through, so there's nothing left in [the side] like a gut. But that's my question. The last time you were here, you presented how you could put Jõgevamaa or Saaremaa cats, dogs and guinea pigs into a single database. And now people, wherever they live. Does this mean that in your vision such a big brother's approach is correct, so that we can have an overview of all our cats, dogs, guinea pigs and people, wherever they are, in one large database?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U426	I certainly have not put forward such a vision, but I understand that these days were long, and this may have been a dream, for example, inspired by exciting discussions in this Chamber. Hand to heart, I have never thought of such a thing, nor have I presented it in this hall or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U427	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U428	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Andrei! My colleague, Alar Laneman, asked about the impact assessments that should have been made on security risks. I would also ask about impact assessments, but not in this option, but in relation to officials and authorities. There is nothing to do, people are not saints, and officials are not saints. Has an impact assessment been carried out to make any barriers or barriers in order to prevent officials or authorities from misuse or abuse a large database for a particular person?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U429	Thank you. Your colleague asked about a specific niche, but I fully agree with this theme. Indeed, first of all, the creation of ABIS allows you to see who asked about your data, unless it is a classified query, for example, you are a party to some kind of criminal procedure. Maybe someone else is being accused, but you're also being collected. In that case, quite a few years ago, we passed a law to prevent these [inquiries] from being classified forever. But it could be years before you get any information that you've been questioned. This issue is certainly interesting, but this bill will not change it in any way, except that you really get an overview of these unclassified queries, you don't have that information today. Today, you don't know who was interested in your fingerprints, in case you gave them to me when you got your passport.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U430	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U431	Thank you. Good colleague Andrei! I do not think it is difficult for you to remember [the questions] from your memory weakness. [You've] been president of the chess union for a long time, chess friends are all very good with memory. There's only one minute to ask. There is no definition of how many questions there are and how we define what is a question. But I agree that it is not easy when there are several questions and they are intertwined through. And therefore, this time I would ask my question, which was left unanswered, again and very briefly. We only have your claims that it's safe. Did the Commission discuss who carried out this impact assessment and what were the main conclusions? Who did, and what were the main conclusions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U432	Thank you. My argument wasn't that it was safe. My argument was that if the data was released, it would increase security. If you have data in two different locations, you have to steal it twice to cause more damage. If they are in one place, one action is sufficient. We have not talked about the impact analysis, but for IT projects, a longer analysis is usually carried out at the start of the project implementation phase. I didn't say it was a secure database. I have argued that it will certainly be safer than keeping data together and in various small, obsolete databases.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U433	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U434	Thank you. Good waitress! You have repeatedly confirmed here that no new data will be collected in the database. But that's not true. The explanatory memorandum states in black that existing biometric data, such as fingerprints, facial image etc, will be aggregated and that in the future, other possible data, such as the iris, voice biometrics, walks, etc. will be included. In short, anything you can think of and invent. Why are you lying to us here and to the people of Estonia? This database will be ever larger and more comprehensive and not limited to existing data, not at all. This is precisely the creation of an orwellian big brother and a monitoring society that we are fighting against. Why do you want to create such dystopia?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U435	Thank you. Well, I mean, if you collect a fingerprint tomorrow, of course, it's new data, and then they go into the database. Now, if anything changes in the future and I have repeatedly drawn attention to it, the Estonian state will start collecting other data, in which case they will go into the database, but this bill will not grant or withdraw this right. I have also repeatedly replied to your colleagues that if there is a desire to regulate which data is collected by the Estonian state, a draft law may be initiated for this purpose. Orwell's novel 1984 takes place some 70 years ago, namely 65. That's when the first computers appeared. And as you probably remember from the book, the country did great without that big database. So if a country wants to build a totalitarian regime, it does not need a database. But this bill certainly does not provide any additional leverage.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U436	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U437	Good manager! Good waitress! Not very long ago we discussed the security of the X-Road in the Special Committee on State Budget Control, and the conclusion that it came from there was that, although the data is moving from corner to corner, they are potatoes or people or whatever, then the storage facilities may be safe, but the road is now quite a little protected from road robbers. And now, in this context, I ask you if you think that's the case. That's the first question. But the second question is why the coalition is forcefully pushing this bill through at the cost of the suffering that is now there, but at the same time, for example, the law on planning, which has a much wider impact, has been rejected and is not necessary. Why is it that-all-or-nothing approach to this so-called excellent bill, as you claim?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U438	Thank you. I haven't used the word "excellent" in this report, there was no reason. But now, as far as this blackmail is concerned, once again, we have had a substantive debate on various issues for several days, from the compositions of the delegations to the draft. Blackmail would probably be a vote of confidence, but it is not. We've been talking about this bill for a while now and looking at these troubled places. I do not feel any suffering; I am very happy to be here and to answer your questions, including this last question. So I hope there's more coming. But it doesn't seem like it will.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U439	No, because the members of the Riigikogu, as you have repeatedly pointed out, can ask two questions and those who had questions have asked them. Thank you, Andrei Korobeinik! Now we can go to the negotiations. Every member of the Riigikogu is able to give five minutes of speech from the remote control and three minutes of extra time. The first to sign up is Tarmo Kruusimäe. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U440	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good guardians of citizens' rights, protectors and, of course, those people we call men with long pats. The humor school was this, but for other people, it may have been a demagogue school, which is quite classic: if you have two questions, give the first one some kind of answer and then he'll waste the second question right away. It was actually not a good line when the Rules of Procedure were always referred to [that] I had one question and I did not have to answer the other, and I have already answered that once. It's clear when it's clear to everyone. I remember, once, when Andrei Korobenik was on the radio, they asked him what was a good idea and how much it cost, well, if someone comes and says I have a good idea how much it costs. Andrei Korobeinik just said in the radio show that if you can make this idea clear to your grandmother, it costs quite a lot, but if you can't explain this idea to the Riigikogu ambassador, then they are actually glass beads. There's nothing to do with them, they got a few centuries ago a migrant worker who was transported. But let's get to that bill. One way we figured out we had two different databases, one with fingerprints and the other, and the other with names. Let's imagine we have this Enigma machine. It should be, because when villains get those fingerprints that should be associated with a particular person, or there's a code, here he's going to be a little bit of a Lord of the Rings, I don't know all those things. But where someone keeps them, they agree, in the meantime they fight and fight, or there are no traitors for such a noble cause. Remember, Herman Simm was the one who controlled everyone else. But the problem that comes out maybe it's simple. We don't have a lot of ambassadors [in mind], nobody does, and I admit that I've already been a little lazy myself, that whenever we are offered some IT solutions, remember, good ambassadors, also those who are there on the Internet and are currently watching: we have to ask that the requirement is that we must be compatible with existing systems. Because you're gonna get this system, and then it turns out it's not compatible, and then it's gonna say, "Oh, yeah! It's a mill again! " The Ministry of Justice wants to do this justice card, but it's made up of these and these things and they're not compatible. What do you need it for? Well, the idea itself is good, and it's great that we use the so-called sandwich here. That's a good idea, isn't it? When you get the picture out of the way, you look in the mirror at who I am, and you get to know that, oh, I'm Tarmo. Biometric data tells you you're Tarmo. I mean, that could be one of those ideas. Although today's "Sunday Hour" said that the IT fundamentals of the Estonian state were established as early as 2008, much has happened and changed in the world in the meantime. But we in Estonia are still asking for digital signature on every meaningless piece of paper. Probably because we're trying to sell this myth from a tiger, sell it by force, while we know we're paying the most expensive price on the slowest internet. Peter Ernitsa asked why it was being done, why it was being pushed. Fourteen million isn't coming from anywhere. It's gotta be writing the RES somewhere. It is as if this bad example of political leadership, that a problem must be found or created at the outset, then it must be made a very big problem and then, of course, it must be proposed as the sole solver of this problem. The IT-Sustainable person here tried to make it to the dog and cat database first. I'd like to take three minutes this time, good vice president, because I've been talking about the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U441	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U442	Backwards, I have this text to see that I don't count things off this paper. I'm also showing people that I'm not such a tough guy that I'm reading backwards. Otherwise, they'll say I'm quoting some classics here. But now is the moment when I quote a classic, a good friend of Igor Garšnek: "Son asks: "Dad, what is an IT solution? "'Look, if something doesn't work, it's an IT solution.' " Right now, we see this enormous need for a jacket to be sewn onto the button. But the good Toomas Kivimägi, who you thought the success of the bill wasn't about the bill waitress, you were quite wrong. It wasn't a good line here, like, "I've already answered it." That's an arrogant attitude. It's easy for the coalition, they've agreed to it. We just need to put 14 million in it, because it's already been agreed that we're gonna do about this kind of database, we're gonna find that need. Of course, there's gonna be some memos and all that stuff. As I said, the biometric database is that if it gets so out of hand that if you look in the mirror in the morning and you don't understand it, you're gonna have a barrier to Tarmo Kruusimäe! Plus, you can set up a place where you are. [[Sings:]] "How much time is it? I have to get up in five. Am I late? Am I late? Narrow and blind crooked streets, narrow and blind streets of loneliness... "This song is on the record "Favorite Voices," I think it was 1967, Boris Lehtlaan sang it. The song is called "What's the clock?'. For those people who fan me that I am here quoting songs from my head: still, I have enough of this Estonian music. But what about this bill? I don't understand, I don't really understand when we're told different stories. Maybe we're not in the information room, and we don't have to have it. But again what the President of the Riigikogu said. Fatherland and sociers, they are not at all on the Board of the Riigikogu. They're not supposed to be here at all today. But I have the trouble that my constituents are more rebellious people. They do not like that they are constantly burping after them; they feel that this is not the future they have wanted to reach from the totalitarian society from which they have come. If, now, in such confusing circumstances, there is a need to make a system and all this myth, the formula that matches the fingerprints in the collection of information with that person's name is kept. It is tattooed on a mirrored hand and in Swahili, and it is passed on from generation to generation with a forgery produced in Põltsamaa, which is actually made from oatmeal. This could be a summary of such a draft. People, don't support it!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U443	Reuben Kaalep, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U444	Very highly respected Riigikogu! This draft, which has given rise to a very broad debate among us, is in itself not very important in the great currents of history, and probably in a hundred years' time it will not be much discussed in the history books. However, this draft has raised very fundamental issues and questions. We have had other questions like this, and there will certainly be more, not just in Estonia, but in many countries of the world. Because the debate we are debating now is inevitable in the wider history of the world, where we move from an industrial age to a high-tech civilization. We have to ask ourselves what changes it means to society, what changes it means to a person. The first big issue we open up with it is freedom. Whatever freedom is, I'm not going into this philosophical discussion right now. But the constitutional meaning of freedom is very important to all of us. Because the Constitution says that this country is founded on freedom, justice and justice. And this line isn't random. This order also shows the importance of these values. Therefore, freedom is an even higher value for us in Estonia than even justice. Not to mention the right, which means legislation. There are many kinds of freedom and it exists at all levels. We can talk about the national and national freedom that is the freedom we have fought out as a nation, the freedom to create our own country, the freedom to be free of foreign powers. When we come down from this level, we can talk about personal, individual, freedom, which means freedom from slavery to other people and institutions. Also, epistemologically, there is a distinction between negative and positive freedom, one of which is freedom from slavery, freedom from coercion, and the other is freedom from self-realization, both of which are part of one whole. At national level, there is a very important discussion: freedom on the one hand versus security on the other. Because it is precisely in such a high-tech society that these two values often conflict, and that is exactly what we are talking about in this draft law. On the one hand, it would be very easy, comfortable and safe to live in a society where everyone is placed under the superior control of someone we trust as individual people, who must ensure that our lives are protected, our real estate is protected, etc. But on the other hand, trust is also from the top down. It is a question of whether the state trusts its citizens, and it again varies in many societies. Estonia has always been a small community in the context of the world, a nation state based on trust, unlike the great multi-ethnic empires, where there is much more conflict between different social groups. Multiculturalism and multiethnicity mean more crime in many places. These societies have historically also been more control societies. But we have had a trust society, which means a community and an organic state. In this situation, we must see that the threat to freedom, as well as the threat to security, does not come solely from our fellow citizens, it can also come from the power of the state, from the big corporations. We have to ask ourselves who controls those who have control. This poses a serious threat to values such as privacy. Why is privacy even important so that criminals can hide their crimes so that people can hide their vices? But why, for example, do we attach importance to the protection of health records? After all, our health records generally do not talk about our vices or allow us to hide our crimes. It's for a much deeper reason. This is because we, who are free people in a free country, have our own personal space in which every free person can be king. Because of this, privacy is also important in a free society. More broadly, in this age, we are seeing very big global changes and these are the result of technological developments. We are likely to see technological developments during this century that will change the world to the unknown. Nanotechnology can create reconnaissance drones that are getting smaller and smaller. All of this means that privacy, as we have felt, is likely to disappear as a result of purely technological developments. The technological singularity that we are talking about is very likely to mean, to a large extent, totalitarianism in a whole new form in the world, not as we have known in the 20th century regimes. So the big question, looking at these likely historical developments, is how we, as a nation, can make a transition to a high-tech civilization as a civilization. I think the most important question here is whether we are going to do this in secret, undercover, hiding it from our people, or whether we are going to be honest about how things are. It seems to me that a lot of those in power, including the leaders of the corporations, politicians, carry the idea that they are higher, smarter, more educated than the common people, and that, therefore, their duty is to present to the people such noble lies as they defend the people as such an elite. I think this attitude is wrong, especially in Estonia, in the Republic of Estonia, where we are free people as a free people. Since there are many quoted classics here throughout this discussion, I will conclude with the quote of author William Somerset Maugham: "If some people appreciate something more than freedom, then this people will lose their freedom, and the irony of the matter is that if it is comfort and money that they value more than their freedom, they will lose it. " Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U445	Thank you. I now request the Riigikogu Chair of Merry Aart.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U446	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, ABIS is a beautiful combination of stars, so familiar, it's like everyone knows what it is. But this is a very complex, very specific database. The rapporteur said here that no new data will be collected, they are available in other databases already in place, but ABIS will disassociate the data. A little clearer, but not quite. What's the purpose? Once we say there's data, once we say there's no data, let's start collecting. The result? Who's using it? How is security ensured? ABIS costs EUR 15 million; it has to be paid on an ongoing basis. At one point, this database will also become obsolete. Shall we make another one? And in how many years do we do? Is it going to be 20 million or more? Is development planned? The pet register is a good example. I wasn't in favour of it. Whether it justifies itself or not, we'll see. Was the offer addressed to Spin TEK, or was it already agreed? There are many different concepts of this. I still don't count from here who this target group that can use this data is the army, the police, is it health care, education or anyone else? How is security ensured? We just had an I.D. security breach. The more I listened, the more different facets appeared. Actually, we can check who's going to check the database. But then it turned out there was some kind of classified data request. The explanation was that the D.O.O.D. wouldn't be able to access the database of the Defence Forces. What if, for example, the minister signs the order? How is it defined, possible or not? In the technical section of Postimees.ee it was that the newest artificial mind can identify a person's political views by face. Honestly, it's getting pretty creepy. Dear Andreil doesn't have a suit, but he's like a typical IT person: smart talk, but it's very difficult to understand. I understand it's my problem that I don't understand. But I'd like to. I have experience of my own: a private company ran together a database when they weren't prepared to pay as much as they asked. How is this risk mitigated in the case of ABIS? So there are a lot of questions. It would take time to discuss. As the partymates Leo and Riho said, an impact analysis is needed. I haven't seen that. If this database were to be developed and managed by the state, the state would be responsible, the state would develop, the state would find money according to needs and opportunities. I'd feel better. How many times was the expression that this bill does not concern this subject or problem, if necessary, we will change the other law or make a new one. Can't we really anticipate anything? But we keep making laws, we improve laws, we change laws. I dare not say that such a database is not needed, but time is too short to understand what this ABIS really is, what its content is, who can access data and how security risks have been grounded. It's a half database. One side is the database, the other side is the use, verification and development. This should be dealt with further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U447	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu speech chair Siim... I'm sorry! Riho Breivel! A microphone for Riho Breivel, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U448	Since Merry mentioned my name, I have to say, of course, that the truth is, we've been watching this thing and watching it. For everything, however, the impact analysis has to be done properly and all factors have to be identified. The same is true of this draft. I must say, of course, that many things have been analysed very thoroughly here, but there are many things that I think need to be said by the previous speakers, too, in the simple language, to make it clear to the people, to take down fears, because fears are sometimes more problematic than they are. There's nothing to do here, that's what impact analysis is, it takes time to do, not do these things on the run. Of course, Merry's right about who's finally gonna make that profit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U449	Thank you. Siim Pohlak is now in the Riigikogu Chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U450	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, The unpleasant haste and over-rolling of opposition proposals have been behind this draft in Parliament. There is no justification why it is so urgent, and the Commission rapporteur did not answer the questions thoroughly either. He complained that we were asking too many questions, on one question, but it did not occur to him that maybe the matter is still confusing, it is not justified. It is still unclear why it is necessary to spend such a large amount of money on this database. There are still many of these questions and many questions remain unanswered by the Commission's rapporteur in this Chamber today. But there are other aspects. I think it's pointless to make a whole new database, it doesn't undo the earlier ones, it's still there. In Estonia, there is an obligation that if a person is consulted in national databases, the person must be able to see who or which institution has consulted him or her. I know people go to old databases looking at people's data in a way that doesn't show a person who's been looking at his data and for what reason. So here I see the risk of having an additional layer of shadow death, but still existing and accessible databases, through which people's data can be viewed, without leaving any more traces of the data from the requesting institution or person. But there's more. Merry, in her speech, has already mentioned this subject of facial images. Imagine that if even a part of people's facial images from this base falls outside the state sector, even in the hands of a political interest group, the facial images of all Estonian people. Everyone has an ID card and a passport photo taken, and since the little kids, they've been taking these photos these days. Why is it dangerous? I am surprised at the irony of the Commission's waitress. A man in the IT sector himself, he compared, according to the facial image I described, the identification of a person's world view or other preferences with esoterics. Believe it or not, Andrei, scientists at Stanford University have already created an artificial intelligence that can identify in person's image whether it's a liberal or a conservative. They have also created an algorithm that can identify a person's sexual orientation by face. The technology is developing at a wild speed. Once again, if all the sensitive data collected in one superdatabase gets into the wrong hands, it will be possible to do much more effective work in influencing, controlling and directing the masses than they often call themselves neutral, but in fact media publications that act as ideological propaganda. The Commission's waitress said different things. He said it was just a technical bill, nothing important, a lot of fuss about the little thing. But why are the Reform Party and the Centre Party ramming through the creation of a database of automated and biometric identification systems given by such pressure and force? Once again, if it's such a small and insignificant thing, why such pressure? Why didn't you want to agree with the opposition? There were offers. The coalition itself is currently ruining the reputation of the Estonian parliament with its stubbornness. It is, of course, nice to watch the Riigikogu do its work during the weekend. But anyway, what's the speed with this bill? Why are we not moving calmly, given the questions raised in this Chamber and the discussion that is still emerging in Estonian society? Mr Korobeinik said earlier that he would not see the people of Toompea protest against this bill, so it is as if there is no problem. I don't think the masses are here because they haven't been informed yet. If in the future all of them will be collected... Can I have an extra three minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U451	How much time do you want?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U452	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U453	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U454	... using the data to identify people, even on the basis of a security camera, then one day we might not even see any demonstrations here on Toompea. Of course, we hope that all governments and rulers will be democratic, but Mr Korobeinik also said that he does not know what will happen or what will happen in 20 or 50 years' time. Our news portals deal with ABIS from the tip of the mocha, only from one point of view. In the same way, what contrast is there in recalling how, during the previous government, every other decision that the government or this hall confirmed for the mass media was equal to the coup attempt presented under the most dramatic headlines. It's like there's no question. A critical writing by a few IT-sector journalists or entrepreneurs somewhere in the newspaper column column, but that's all. It is clear that the coalition led by the Reform Party wants to ram this thing through quickly. If this succeeds, the reasons or consequences will only be known in the future. I do not object at all to our society being safer, but this security must be guaranteed differently, not with total control. Security in Estonia should primarily result from people living here with the same cultural background and the same customs as possible. Sweden is a vivid example of the fact that the greatest threat to the peace and stability of society comes from mass immigration, people from another cultural background. Sweden may place cameras all over the place to identify migrants shooting with automatics and bombings, but in the end, the same cameras will also become a problem for the peaceful natives of Sweden itself. When returning to the 366 SE, I read here that the composition and storage of the data to be entered in the database of the automated biometric identification system and the deadlines are set out in the basic Regulation of the database. But we don't know anything about this statute today. We don't know a lot of things about these mega databases. Let's not rush! Nine times, cut once, says the Estonian proverb. So I would certainly like us to stop working on this draft here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U455	Thank you. I now request the Riigikogu speech chair Rene Koka. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U456	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U457	I'm so sorry, waitress! Tarmo Kruusimäe, you have a procedural question inside. Has it gone by accident? [[A voice from the hall.]] Good waitress, I'm sorry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U458	It's okay. Ladies and gentlemen, Good people who watch us through the transfer! As we already have a good practice, I will in the meantime remind those who have only recently come to see what the Riigikogu is doing. We are currently discussing the amendment of the Identity Documents Act and, in connection with this, the Bill 366, on the Amendment of Other Laws is currently dealing with second reading. Why are we discussing this? I personally do not object to us being safe to live here in Estonia, and I think no one is against it. I believe that all people want us to have a peaceful life here in Estonia, not only in Estonia, but in Europe and in the world at all. But this law is not now what gives us this peace, rather takes it away. When we are talking about increasing security here and what this is about, why we are doing it here, it makes perfect sense when we look at who comes to the country of Estonia. If we take this data, which has been much talked about here today and is planned to be taken in the future, from immigrants, from criminals who go to court, then I think it is very sensible and it must be done. But it doesn't make sense that we're moving towards a cross-check right now, we're starting to collect different data, it doesn't make sense, it's not normal. That's overreacting. What we can see one day because of the leak in these databases, we can imagine. Google either or and see how many leaks there have been in the last 10 to 15 years. There's been a lot of them. This is very worrying. Also today's waitress, a good colleague, Alar Laneman, answered that yes, and he cannot actually confirm that it is a secure system, and he will not say that. Yeah, let's get together, bring the smaller ones together, but that's always gonna be a threat. Now we are also creating a new potential threat. We've got a bunch of little databases. It is undoubtedly true that our information systems are beginning to grow old and need investment, that is absolutely true, and this debate was also a great deal in the previous government. But now we're going to make another database without losing the previous, old databases. Maybe when we talk about making our lives more secure, we'll have another chance of leaking. Where's the logic? Not to mention that I did not get an answer to my question of how much it will continue to cost to maintain old databases and how much it will cost to maintain this large new database in the future. There was talk of 15 million that would cost us to create it. This prospect is not great. There are very many people in Estonia who are concerned about this. I repeat: it is not that we are against this as such. No one has anything against a safe Estonia. But now the proportions are completely out of place, and we're creating a new threat to leaking information and losing privacy. I advise people to think very carefully. Whoever's got the right to do the law, read it and see where we're going. It's not okay. I am very deeply disturbed by this enormous pressure in this current process. I have always felt that if we want to get something in society, people must be educated and taken to one thing or another by educating and moderate pushing. If we are talking about environmental issues, waste issues, education of people is a key issue in all of this. But not that we're gonna get on four feet, take it or leave it, we're gonna have the strength today, and we're gonna do it, it's not okay. It's not okay. People need to be explained. They need to be talked to. If something isn't mature in society... Please, Chairman, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U459	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U460	...to go on with it, you have to take a break and see why this resistance is so strong. There was also a discussion of why the EKRE had not made proposals and why it had not been discussed. We made suggestions, we made a whole bunch of proposals. It would make perfect sense to take a slow time now, to discuss these matters and to reopen the substantive debate. As I have already said, this pressure is unacceptable for me and for many Estonians. I have a suggestion that those who are eager to do this database, be good, collect the money voluntarily, collect the money, there are a lot of capable and well-known people in the business world, do it with voluntary money, and all the requesters in this hall, start volunteering your data. Begin showing good will, all of you who are very supportive of this law, start with that. Maybe one day, if you can see it's such a good thing, the rest of the people will come for you. Stop the pressure and leave the people of Estonia alone! Deal with a problem that really is a problem. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U461	Thank you. Procedural question, Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U462	Thank you. As my name was mentioned, I would point out that there was not only an impact assessment on security issues, but that it was broader, also profitability of profitability, etc. Unfortunately, at the time, for various reasons, I did not have time to ask about such a sensitive aspect as the involvement of individuals. Perhaps it would be better to choose a person to speak for IT solutions at other times, and it would certainly be a good colleague of Andrei's extremely correct person, who would be less involved in the field, that would give a more objective impression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U463	I now request the Riigikogu Chair of Riho Breivel.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U464	Good manager, eight minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U465	Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U466	Good Chairman! Good friends! Tarmo talked a lot about freedom here as the first speaker. Freedom is one of the main arguments that must be taken very seriously. It occurred to me that the sentence of the German classic Heine is that freedom is not when you do what you want, but when you do not have to do what you do not want. This is where the questions about this bill gradually come out. Of course, I have to say about myself that I am a little bit, how to say it, with a different attitude than many members of our group, how many other ambassadors we have. I'm a border guard, I've been a border guard in my heart, and that's what I'm gonna be, and that's what I'm gonna be. That means the databases have always been close to my heart. The first serious database I saw when Uno Kaskpeit and I went to the United States in 1993. We arrived at a very serious facility where we were shown US databases. When my name was kicked in there, the data came out that I was wondering how there was a database like this about me in 1993. Have we gotten there today, I don't know. My prints and everything were there. It made a big impression on me, and I thought it would be nice if we came home and made a database like this. We came home and, of course, we started making our own border guards databases. You don't want to get complicated, or it's gonna get too specific. The very first database we had was written on the backs. According to this, we checked the border crossings, and there were comments from the border guards. In the mid-nineties, we got here so far that we started doing something with the computer and got pretty good databases ready for somewhere in 2000. To date, we have nine databases to check border crossings and the Schengen system. I also understand Mart Helme's decision to start cleaning up this database as a minister. Of course, but this arrangement has become, how to say, so different from what was originally meant. You have to look at it very seriously here. Of course, most of the databases that we have in place and which guarantee the functioning of the Schengen system, as well as border controls, are very necessary. Until then, until we were in Schengen, we had the relevant databases, we almost managed to control the entire cross-border movement. But even then we had these things organized at first, that the regions had different data recording systems and it took time to reconcile. Today, the Police and Border Guard Board has a system. But this system also needs to be treated wisely, a smart approach, because all the data that may leak can cause extremely many problems for those who have the data in the database, and ultimately for their loved ones. That's not how to say, a very easy thing to take. I don't want to, and I'm sure you can't scare people that they're gonna be watching you every step of the way. We also have a way of saying that every check must have a follow-up. But it doesn't always work. We cannot always be sure that all these systems are fully secured. I think there's still work to be done on this draft law, so it can be a very good law. That's what Paul said here about the wisdom of doing these things. To be honest, Paul is a wise man. So let's keep working, and let's not let a lousy project become a law! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U467	Thank you. Paul Puustusmaa, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U468	Reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U469	Got it. Then do not put this procedural mark, just put it under the speeches. Mart Helme, rejoinder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U470	Thank you. Riho Breivel pointed out that in my day I was accompanying this bill to the coordination circle. I would like to emphasise once again, in the interests of the protocol, that this was a new IT solution that is needed to replace the existing data systems that are outdated and inexpensive and unsafe in terms of maintenance. In this Chamber today, we have already heard many times, including by the Commission's waitress, that old systems, old databases will remain and a new one will be added. So it was sold to me with a lie, and that lie is slowly coming out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U471	Thank you. Now the rejoinder of Paul Puustusmaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U472	Thank you very much, dear manager. To tell you the truth, I find it extremely pleasant that I feel every day how the atmosphere in our hall gets more and more beautiful and better, good and beautiful words are spoken to each other. This is extremely welcome. I thank Riho, too, for this grain of wisdom comes out of Tolkien's saga, like Treebeard, who would have said that man would not rush. Man doesn't rush, it sounds good, and that's good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U473	Thank you. Uno Kaskpeit.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U474	Since my name was named before, I say that we really went to America in our time of service. There were these databases and things very powerfully developed. I guess we came back and we tried to start some things for ourselves. But today the border guard has been destroyed, so there's nothing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U475	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Paul Puustusmaa. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U476	I'm gonna ask for three more minutes, just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U477	Yes, please! Eight minutes, just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U478	Good people! Ladies and gentlemen, As always and as is customary, it is somewhat saddening that there are so few of us physically in this Chamber, because, you know, when the hall is full of curious glances, open-eyed ears, it is much more motivating than when you see that only your good friends in your group are here and others are hiding. That's very bad. But, good friends, I'm sure I'd like to say one more thing about this law. You know, the old Romans used to say, "Cito maturum, cito putridum. " That is a very wise saying. By converting it into the language of the rural people, it means that what is quickly finished will also fail quickly. I don't want to, yes, try to stick myself in the shoes of a very respectable Hardi Wing. There was much more of that Latin expression coming from him than from me. But I'm saying it has value, it has value, because the way we deal with this law right now in such a hurry, in such a hurry, is abnormal. After all, the calls that our ladies and gentlemen have made here are completely reasonable and understandable. Siim Pohlak told us why it is bad to hurry, why we need to move on with this seriously. Rene Chef came and his words were still such that it is a very good law, a very good law, and we are in favour of progress, but such haste is unreasonable. It's unreasonable if we try to create incomprehensible and strange databases. So what did we find out today about this database, ABIS? We have asked questions here, a good colleague, Andrei Korobenik, spoke for a long time, talked smoothly and at times sleepy, how good it was and how necessary it was. But we found out: we need 14 million. Why? Because we have a dozen databases, but we need another one. We're asking here why we need another one. It's better and it's safer. Because it's one of the new ones where the other databases go together. Let's ask if the other databases disappear. No, they're still there. Then why can't you fix the others, make them better? Well, in general, it got pretty much like this... I say that it could have been more logical and understandable in any way, so that it would know whether it could or could not be supported. Anyway, I'm on the same boat as Rene. Basically, having a modern, modern, good database is a good thing in itself, but he must provide security guarantees for our country and our people. He won't give it to me. It's not right that one database is better than ten. Because one is easier to rob than ten or steal, or how to take or hijack data. Well, the guarantees that come from there were pretty incomprehensible to me, too. What else did we find out? We learned that the lame brown Irish Albanian old man steals chickens and if he is here in Estonia, we can collect data on him if he steals chickens or if he is lame. Actually, we don't know if he's stealing chickens and if he's lame, but we're just collecting this data just in case, because one minute, if he gets caught somewhere, it's good for someone to ask. Who's good to ask? At first, I thought that the Albanian prosecutor's office might ask, but it turns out that this is not the case, it is enough for the European Union prosecutor's office to ask for these data and try to retrieve them. And then, when the data is in hand, all the data will be erased immediately. It was also found out. We will have an additional system for a dozen existing systems worth €15 or €14 million. What else has bothered you? We have repeatedly addressed the issue of creating this database to specialists, knowledgeers, smart people. We've been asking because we have a problem, EKRE has a problem. We have asked whether the launch of ABIS will close all other databases, specifically those whose data will be transferred to ABIS. Well, we have not received a very concrete and satisfactory answer. We have asked whether the ABIS has access to ABIS, in particular, the Police and Border Guard Board and who is the responsible employee. We didn't get any answers. We have asked whether the database is intended to establish identity in the performance of public tasks relating to the security of the state, if it is not possible to identify or verify the identity of the person in the normal manner. We haven't gotten any answers. But we may have too many questions and no answers. Maybe too much. That is why, because we do not have these answers, because we do not really see that the creation of this database would create the promised security, because we do not see that the creation of this database in the collection of data would bring us the necessary national security guarantees, because we do not see that the data collected there are sufficiently protected and secured, and because it does indeed create a general monitoring system connected with the European Union, it is understandable that we do not want it to come as such. Maybe in fact, as Rene Chef said, it's still good, but we still want to know if she's good. The proposal is, as I have repeatedly proposed, by the way, as Urmas Reinsalu repeatedly did, just as other members of opposition parties did: good people, let us not rush! The wise one doesn't rush, we take some time off, we have our heads cooled down this hot summer, or it's the other way around that makes the blood go better, and we come together in the fall, see the new additions and thoughts that have come to see if it's good. Maybe it's good. If he's good, I'll be the first to vote for it. But today I'm against it, and I recommend it to everyone else, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U479	Thank you. Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U480	Thank you. Paul Puustusmaa named my name, wishing to comment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U481	Yes, it was. Please, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U482	Mr Paul Puustusmaa said that, unfortunately, Siim did not understand why it needed to be rushed. I assure you, I am still in the same position. If the rumors prove true that the Ministry of the Interior has a plan to liquidate the rescue commanders in order to save money to create this super database, I find it extremely regrettable and it is not only a bad hurricane, but a generally bad decision. So much for my comment on Mr. Woodland.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U483	I now ask the Riigikogu to speak to Alar Laneman.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U484	Can I have an extra ten minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U485	I can't give you ten minutes. The law doesn't allow me. Three makes it possible. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U486	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I start by saying that I am very much in favour of modern technical solutions helping us create a safer environment, so that the bad guys can quickly be caught, the evidence is sufficiently and correctly drafted, the trial would be fair but effective. We know that the two most important principles in combating crime are the necessity and speed of punishment. The draft in question in its main features is a very good draft, and the future is for such, let us say, universal, rapid and automated solutions. So the purpose and purpose of this bill are correct. But the proposed steps and instruments, I think, would require even more clarification and some very important aspects, it seems, are not taken into account. Here is a brief overview of this. But I'm afraid I'm going to have to repeat myself partly because quite well these points have also been hit by, for example, Rene Chef, and also Leo Kunnas in particular on his questions and Rene in his speech. But first, the reasons. It is only this goal and the goal that has come out very clearly so that it can go faster and better. When we look at the details of how this works, why these solutions have been chosen, we see that there are a lot of questions. Safety first. I asked repeatedly, and what did I get in response? Although at first it seemed that the waitress was trying to leave such an image that the solution was very secure, when she answered my specific question, the waitress said that she was not saying that it was safe, which was quite startling. We also heard that an analysis is usually made at the beginning of the project. But the rapporteur's answer to my question, who did this and what were the main conclusions or basic conclusions, seemed to be that it did not exist. So here's the first big question. The second security aspect relates to the members of the Defence Forces. We also asked, repeatedly, how many members of the Defence Forces are involved in this and why, which is the specific reason. There's no answer. If there is no answer, then there is reason to continue with the question and to find the answer, because we do not know, perhaps everything is fine, but perhaps it is not. What do you mean, it's useful and fast? These are relative terms. But we couldn't get any closer and more specific. How much faster is it, how much time will it take to save hours or jobs, for example? Unfortunately, we didn't hear all that. When we talk about databases and layoffs, primary school-level mathematics says that if either military opponents, military intelligence or criminal groups needed to buy or recruit nine people or ten, how many databases there were, then one is enough. They will certainly have financial and temporal savings. I hope these things aren't that simple, of course, but to characterize this example, I think, it's pretty straightforward. Next, what is the overall strategic direction in IT services and what is the location of the project in question where it is located, whether it is the beginning of something or whether it is linking up the existing quantity and creating a new quality, nor does it work out. I think it shows superficiality, although logic is there, so it should be this direction. General organisation and political culture. The waitress was here to defend the bill. I must point out, unfortunately, that in the ERR news on 11 January, the rapporteur said that it was illegal to merge amendments in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs by its chairman. It was January 11th. Five months later, it's legitimate. I think this is a very bad example of a bad political culture. Here, examples have been used repeatedly that EKRE was the initiator and by itself, etc. This example says that it is not as little common practice as we might want to believe. And such a general aspect. After all, this is a sensitive issue; it concerns people's personal freedoms; it concerns certain perhaps unjustified fears. But it is our duty to answer these questions and to settle our fears. We all read from time to time that Big Brother is threatening. Examples of animal farms, Orwell worlds, etc. are given. Even if they are just unwarranted fears and conspiracy theories, it is the duty of the Heads of State to remove these fears and doubts. If necessary, explain it several times. We have all heard good principles of inclusion, consideration of the opinion of the people, democracy in its broadest sense, etc. Each person, of course, is concerned about his or her privacy, is concerned about his or her rights. There's nothing deplorable about that. Explaining is also our job. Overall, the objectives and direction of the draft are positive, but in the case of solutions, there is little certainty that they are necessary, safe and thoughtful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U487	Thank you. Leo Kunnas, what question do you have?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U488	My name was mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U489	Yes, I am now facing a great dilemma. You would like an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U490	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U491	But please specify. Do you want Merry Aart's speech after the reception or Alar Laneman's?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U492	I'd like the last one.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U493	Got it! Since Merry Aart mentioned you, I was confused. Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U494	I'm not gonna take two chances now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U495	I can't double it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U496	As my good colleague Alar pointed out, our questions focused on impact analysis. This is one of the most important components of this whole case, which is the impact of this new database, both from the point of view of security risk and from the point of view of possible malicious exploitation by officials. We didn't get any good answers here. I absolutely believe that Mrs Korobeinik gave her answers from a good heart, but just because Mrs Andrei says that it is all safe, there cannot be quite enough justification or guarantee for us that this database will be secure. Are there any barriers or buffers that would prevent officials from taking advantage of it for some of their purest purposes? That's what I'd add, I'd say, Herman's syndrome, after a missing agent named Simmi, who, just being the key point of the databases, used them quite mercilessly for purposes not good for us. But thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U497	Thank you. René Chef, you also have an address. Same problem for the manager right now. Just let me know if you want to apply it to Paul Puustusmaa, or whether you want to apply it to Alar Laneman.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U498	Thank you. I'd take that chance on Alar Laneman. Thank you, Honourable Chairman, for being so polite and concerned. Anyway, thank you. At a nice pace like this, we'll move on. I wanted to say that I really have not received an answer today on the question of what analyses and how thoroughly they have been carried out. This was asked the waitress several times here. What analyses have been carried out, for example, on the transfer of military and military data from the current databases to this major ABIS? Several times it was asked, but all the time it slipped past the answer. Finally, the biggest thing we came up with was that, at the initiation stage of the draft, something was done somewhere or with the [creating] thoughts of this database. In fact, there were no convincing answers. Still, my point is that we should slow down and discuss this bill calmly. Let us calmly look at all these proposals in the Commission, and then we will take it, if the desire is so great, back in the autumn and we will go on with it. At the moment, it should be withdrawn by processing it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U499	Thank you very much. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U500	Yeah, I guess I noticed that Paul Puustusmaa used my name, and usually I'm very...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U501	Honestly, I can't tell you exactly now, but Alar Laneman used your name. Is that a rejoinder for Alar Laneman? Okay, please! Well, just to make the picture clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U502	Got it. As a rule, I'm kind of freaking out when my coworkers use my name, so I don't think it's necessary to answer. As a man of faith, I may be wrong, but I have noticed that the fourth sin is perhaps when you do not react. My views may be very strange, but I dare say that the medal has seven sides, just have to use a little more fantasy. The author of the bill is precisely the one who forces me to say this thing right now so as not to commit a mortal sin if I do not respond to it when I see a place of concern. The previous venture that Andrei Korobeinik had here and that he represented was called Dog Rate, so we can get a paid database somewhere. So now there's the next thing that maybe produces a personal pension pillar. It's just one point of view. We should still make sure that these things are really good, safe, not just that they are kosher just on paper. So, it's caution. I thought it was necessary to say it. Everyone has a different perspective, and the less we talk about it, the more different conspiracy theories arise. It was one of my visions. Someone might say it's arbitrary, but it's from my life experience to trust. Conservatism is that you have a mild sense of danger. I don't want another thing coming up that somebody's abusing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U503	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U504	Thank you again for this opportunity to speak from this honourable speaker. President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, When discussing this bill, it is sometimes as if the guardians of this bill, the passionate protectors, imagined that we were living in the late 19th century, when such characters as Willie the Kid and other revolver heroes were raging in the Wild West, who were wanted by hand on the basis of portraits, which were often very dazzling, because somewhere he was with a beard, somewhere he was without a beard, someone had seen him bald-headed, someone had seen him with a hat. Well, catch the wind in the field! It's like we're in the same situation. We can't reach the criminals because we don't have a modern facial recognition system. Well, actually, we have eight different data banks, and we live in the 21st century. Maybe not all of you are special TV and movie viewers. I'm a very big viewer of all kinds of excitement series, it's a form of relaxation for me. I'm gonna throw out everything that's going on in this hall, in this house and politics as a whole, and see how mostly fictitious heroes and antiheroes live and move. I would remind you that on our television, there's been a great show like Murder Preventers. Murder-preventors are one of those combat groups who use a supercomputer, which in turn uses all kinds of cameras in subways, streets, offices, bank rooms, etc. that operate on facial recognition systems. Now, if someone is trying to say that the same is not going to happen to us after we approve this bill, it is wrong. Of course it's coming! Of course it's coming! You walk down Viru Street, there's some kind of camera out there, this camera's gonna record you and recognize you right now: aha, that's Martin Helme, aha, that's Reuben Kaalep, that's Ruuben Kaalep, that's what about now having a beard, that's because Martin's got sunglasses in front of him, that's because he's got a hat. Today we are here, we have immunity and we do not yet have a totalitarian government. Not yet. The Conservative People's Party of Estonia is fighting with all means, including now in this Chamber, so that we do not have such a government. But at some point, it could be. We read the day before yesterday an article by Siim Kallas, which was about to get my hair up, and I don't have a lot of it, but a little bit of it's still about how to end the procedure, whether it's a certain deadline for all the drafts to be processed, and what crazy ideas he had there. I asked him in the hallway, "Dear Siim, do you want a North Korean parliament? " I was under the impression that he did not understand what we were talking about, which shows that he really wants a North Korean parliament. But we don't. We want us to really be able to ask procedural questions, bombard waitresses with questions, make speeches, expose the coalition's road roll tactics... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U505	How much?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U506	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U507	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U508	...and keep alive parliamentarianism, parliamentary debate. Well, we could also say, as we are told about the trial, that we have a competing trial, a prosecutor versus a lawyer, and vice versa. We know that such a competitive trial, if he is honest, will eventually lead to the truth. Because both sides are obliged, forced to prepare the process as well as possible, to penetrate to the maximum the details of what the prosecutor's trumps may be, what the defense trumps are. Exactly the same thing should happen in this hall: competitive procedure. Let's not call it a process, let's call it a procedure! Competitive procedure by which we achieve the best result in lawmaking. But we're not gonna make it now. Now the honorary chairman of the leading coalition party wants to reverse it so it doesn't even exist. You can't do that! We have heard in the last few days, until we faint, how the root of all this evil is me: I coordinated, I sent it to the coordination circle. Indeed, it was made clear that we have outdated, unsafe IT systems and need a new security system. But here's one thing that hasn't been answered. Where on the server, in which IT format all this information will be stored, we have not been told. It's very important. Who controls the controllers, or the people who can access this super-data bank? How big can this data bank get? The explanatory memorandum states very clearly that in the future it will be accompanied by an ophthalmic, DNA and other necessary data. In other words, it's like we have an open bill in a restaurant. We can go on and on forever because the bill is open and someday someone will come and pay for it. We also have an open bill here, and they always put new steaks and new drinks on it, not in the car this time. What's the end of all this? Only the Ancient God in heaven knows this, and that is not what those who passionately defend it will tell us so that they can have this data bank at their disposal. Finally. In 1940, the occupying forces sought our defence forces, our police officers, our other public figures, in forest, rural homes, city cellars and attices. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I'm done. Now they're gonna get that data bank if they get the thick end, thanks to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U509	Good waitress! Your time! Thank you. Reuben Kaalep, please! Microphone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U510	Thank you. Indeed, the problem and the danger that Mart Helme highlighted in his speech is very real, so if we have such a huge database, we also have cameras on street corners, we have all kinds of technological identification tools in the public authorities, it is very easy to connect these systems, and it is also very easy to create a comprehensive system that gives the administrators and owners of this system very easy and powerful access at any moment to the location of people, their activities, etc. This is very real because we see examples of this, which are not only taken from exciting or horror novels. The first example is China. China is a country that we have recently discussed in a number of foreign policy debates in this very Chamber. And China, the Red China Communist regime, is using exactly this kind of facial recognition technology, especially in its rebellious provinces, to control the minority population, to use it to suppress dissent. This is a perfectly clear totalitarian behaviour. Another example of this is the large corporations that own social media, which, also by combining their databases, can create an enormously large database that basically destroys privacy in the form we know it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U511	Thank you. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U512	Thank you. I'd like to make a reply. The first half of this line really applies to the alleged fact that we and the previous government are behind this whole evil bill. Actually, it's a whole different story. First of all, this whole plan started before the Conservative People's Party became a government, so even money was allocated. I have an evil doubt in my mind that this data was immediately collected, in which case it is illegal data processing. Some people's heads are supposed to roll in here, but we still have to check it out. Secondly, the way the deep state sold the idea of this database, not to one minister, but to several ministers, was that it was sold wrong. The third important thing, of course, is that when we understood what the substance of this draft was, we had him standing in the previous government. He didn't get past the coordination circles. That's what coordination circles are for. But about the surveillance society that we were talking about here, I'd still read to you. We have had a disgraceful few readings of George Orwell's 1984. I read a paragraph here: "The Ministry of Love was a frightening institution. It didn't have any windows. Winston had never been to the Department of Love, not even half a mile from it. It was a place that it was impossible to get into unless it was on official business, and even then it had to be penetrated through wire barriers, iron doors, and a maze of hidden machine guns' nests. Even in the streets leading to the outer protection zone, gorilla-faced guards with a black uniform were limping, armed with continuous clubs. " Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U513	Thank you. I request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Helle-Moonika Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U514	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear colleagues, Here in the corridors of the Riigikogu, there have been questions in recent days, and even today, why we are so rigidly answering this bill. There are a number of reasons for this, and there is a great deal of attention here today. For example, Henn Põllaas repeatedly drew attention to them in his questions. I would say that we certainly do not oppose innovation. But let us begin by saying that, from the very beginning, when the current government brought this draft to Parliament and the whole process began, we have experienced that constructive dialogue has been hindered. At the moment, we are seeing how all our proposals to reach some compromises are being met with a more and more rigid roller. We can see that the coalition is literally a matter of principle, and that is actually very, very unfortunate. This has also been said several times today, and it has also been released into the media as propaganda, as if former Minister of the Interior Mart Helme were the author of this bill. In fact, it has been said that he has sent this bill only to the coordination circle. We know that all sorts of things can happen on the coordination circle. In his day, this bill never got anywhere. If we look at this bill that he sent to the coordination circle and what is currently here in the Riigikogu, we can see very clearly that there are already four A4 pages between these two drafts. This means that there have been a lot of additions. With regard to all these additions, we have tried to ask questions, to clarify, we have also tabled amendments that drew attention to the danger points that were not taken into account in the Commission, which is why we are again in the position where we are. A good colleague, Siim Pohlak, pointed out that s. The article published in Postimees on January 15th, discussing how the newest artificial mind can even identify a person's political views on the face. We know that really progress towards artificial intelligence is extremely rapid. President Kaljulaid has even suggested that we start thinking about sex with a robot. Well, if artificial intelligence develops this far, then we will probably also be discussing these issues in Parliament. However, we should take this aspect of the rapid development of artificial intelligence very seriously today in all the draft laws, because, as a result, the development of danger points is equally rapid. I am thinking of the security of our personal data and their possible entry into foreign hands. It is not worth underestimating this possibility. There has also been talk of concerns in the hearts of simple citizens. For example, if, during the period between the regular Riigikogu elections, voters who had received a mandate were to disagree with something radically different, and therefore there is a need for voters to express their dissent about decisions at demonstrations, as we saw on 11 April, the government sent him an unpleasant opinion and against people who he did not like, in whom he saw a threat to his existence, a large number of force structures: the police, the police's special unit's dogs, clothed the health officers with a police uniform. Since there is currently no such superdatabase and people can only be controlled with crude force, as we see constantly elsewhere in the world, in so undemocratic but unfortunately also in democratic countries, it is clear... A little extra time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U515	How much?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U516	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U517	Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U518	... that not only we, but also other countries, are busy working and working to bring the people under totalitarian surveillance. The goal is, of course, that no one even dares to think that he wants to go somewhere public, because he knows that the thought of it may already be of his iris when he does his daily shopping at the supermarket. Well, governments would like that, of course, no longer have to go with dogs against their own people. But just as Alar Laneman mentioned certain security threats in his speech, and Mart Helme mentioned in his speech that there was another nuance. Foreign structures will probably also be able to use this database. It is not included in the draft, but it has been mentioned as a reason in the various committees. I'm not so sure that our police officers, military operatives, special directors and others would like their biometric data, DNA and facial recognition to be available in a digital database. Mart Helme already told us what happened in 1940. But also now we're making a detailed database of our people, which the Kremlin cybers have the utmost pleasure of copying down and using if possible. I think our police and senior military personnel should be quite concerned that their biometric identity is one click away. Because of all that I have told you in this speech and because of what very many of our group's ambassadors have said, and not only they, Tarmo Kruusimäe, have come in this sense, like our group, I am proposing an interruption of this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U519	Thank you. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U520	Thank you. Indeed, as the previous speaker said, I am very concerned about where the government that is in power today is taking Estonia and our society. I believe that when Siim Kallas, trying to blacken the EKRE, claimed that Lenin and Kaljurand or who the hell was he? The giftsmith! They therefore turn around with joy in the grave, then indeed, they turn around, but rather with joy because the kind of society they dreamed of and wanted to create can come true at the hands of today's government. And the saddest thing I can imagine is that, out of great concern and frustration, all those men and women who have fought and fallen for Estonia's freedom and democracy will also turn around. These include both my grandfathers who fought in the War of Independence, my great-grandfather, who was the first head of health care in the Estonian army, my aunt Andres Larka, the presidential candidate for freedom fighters, who, precisely because of the same attempt to create a controlled and dystopic police state, had to suffer together with hundreds of other freedom fighters, and everything else, our entire Estonian people. That's not where we have to go. We've been in a society like this and never go back there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U521	Good waitress, thank you! Your time! Please speak to the Riigikogu Chair Martin Helme. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U522	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, Well, there's a lot of things that have already been said, but there's a few things that need to be taken care of. It bothers me very, very much that all this bill has been sold with lies since the beginning. It was sold to Mart Helm, the former Minister of the Interior. It was sold to Alar Laneman, the former Minister of the Interior. It was sold to the Commission on a false basis when it was in the process. These lies, though I am sorry, could not be pointed out here during our presentation by the Commission prior to the current negotiations, because the rapporteur of the Commission, Andrei Korobenik, was not honest with us, but continued to spin these lies. Of course, it has been sold to the public by the false Minister of the Interior, Kristian Jaan, but as we could and learned at the beginning of March, our Minister of the Interior will have to lie easily anyway. I would like to give you an example of a simple lie that started this discussion here in the Riigikogu: we need this bill because the European Union is calling for it. What kind of dog vomit has not been sold to the Riigikogu by saying that the European Union is asking us to do so, starting with the restriction of freedom of expression and ending with some absurd supervision measures. Obviously, we have some officials and politicians who think that if you put the stamp "Brussels demands" on it, it will somehow go through the Riigikogu proceedings. I would say exactly the opposite: as soon as this talk comes to sell some drafts, I'm about to get my antennae out, and I'm starting to worry that there's some kind of shit going on. Yeah, it's bullshit, it's total bullshit, it's really dangerous. Although the Commission's rapporteur did not get it very well, it became clear in the Commission that this draft was on the blankoveksel. We can lie here, we can cuddle or we can spin or we can play dumb like anybody wants. But the bill doesn't say anything about eyeirs or DNA. It doesn't have to be. There is a mechanism in the draft that will allow for the integration of ophthalmic and DNA and all the technologies that we do not even know they exist yet. It creates an opportunity. We have learned that a decree from the Minister of the Interior is enough to do this. Well, this is the right fierce threshold for the next step of a big brother, a total surveillance society: there is no need at all to come to Parliament, there is no need even to go to government, it is enough to have a decree from the Minister of the Interior, whose officials will be nabbed and the champions of the deep state will put a beautiful story on the table about how we need to upgrade the IT system: "And, well, because the technology is evolving and the world is developing and you are not now the reactionaries, we will put this little thing in there too. And by the way, it's gonna cost us 16 million or 17 million, but it's gonna be necessary because all things will fall apart otherwise and if we don't spend it right now, soon there will be no way in Estonia to do anything at all, you won't get ID cards, you won't get driver's licenses, you won't get anything. " And when this 16 million or 17 million has been wrongly taken and spent, it will create a database that today's data protection law will not allow to do at all. That's why we're gonna have to ram through here today by four, so the pieces behind us, that in fact this database is probably already done, at least some of the things that the law doesn't allow. It just needs to be formalised afterwards. Then we are told, 'No, those others, the rest of which we told you we would close them, we would not actually close them, we would not actually close the rest of the databases, they would remain.' And ah gender, it must have been necessary for the European Union. But no, that is not really necessary for the European Union. We have all the different exchanges of information between the European Union and international cooperation in these other, earlier, non-binding databases anyway; they will be asked for additional money in the next country's budget strategy anyway. Well, it's just the incredible nerve of selling it to us. I think it's part of the answer to why it's so badly needed. Undoubtedly, one part of the answer may also be that we have an illegal database, maybe it is already being used illegally. And now the people who have done it and who could be put in jail for it, by the way, have to put out the tracks quickly and quickly. But the second part of the reason why we are fighting here for a week in a row or, in fact, longer, we have been wrestling with this issue for a month and a half in a row in the Commission, is probably because the coalition has made it a question of will-fighting for itself: whose will remains, is the will of the coalition's road roll or the will of the opposition's spiteful people? Well, if it's a matter of will-fighting, then it's a matter of will-fighting. There's a staring contest that blinks first. It seems to me that people have underestimated our will and our willingness to fight. We're running out of time. You could give an hour's lecture on this bill, but I don't think there'll be time. Let's go over it anyway. It's a law of surveillance society, it's a big brother's law, it's an instrument of totalitarian society. Yeah, that's where you can put the DNA data in the future. Yeah, you can cross-use it. Yes, this database will be shared with foreign countries, if necessary. Yes, this use can be extended later. Yeah, there's new stuff you can put in there. No one could answer for the whole time it has been processed here in a month and a half, so why is it needed anyway? If the old databases are left, what do you need it for? If they say no one's gonna use it, what's it for? If they say there's scary big walls in between, and the data is uncoupled in a way that no one really knows, why do they make a database that can't really be used? I will say it again from my own experience as a minister. I've seen with my own eyes how the story of going to the database always leaves a trail, just not true. Well, it's just not true! A branch of the Ministry of Finance had a security incident and it was discovered that it had been logged back and forth in the database without leaving any trace. For years, they've taken what they want, and no one knows we don't know. When we closed that back door, a national security authority woke up and said they needed to get access to that database. Don't tell me it's only used by the people we identify, and only if it's awfully necessary. Don't even talk about what it's like to catch criminals. This fairy tale can be spoken by our Minister of the Interior today as convincingly as he told those other fairy tales during the April events. By telling these fairy tales, even more self - credibility is being destroyed and more people are being driven on their feet in the face of the danger we see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U523	Thank you. I would like to ask the Riigikogu for a speech chair at Urmas Reitelmann.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U524	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Riigikogu. I'm gonna start talking, maybe I'm gonna start talking. I'm gonna ask for three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U525	Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U526	But maybe I won't. It is always good to enrich such a theoretical conversation with personal examples. I would like to give you a few personal examples. First of all, Martin Helme mentioned the hero of George Orwell's book, Winston. Good coalition mates mostly know, most of them know that my dog's name is Winston. And why am I talking about Winston? My Winston's in the database, this database concerns his medical records. It can be watched by medics, i.e. veterinarians, if anything happens. The Winston insurance company has access to this database. Since he's insured, I'll partially get some money back if I need some money to treat him. On the inspiring initiative of Mr Korobenik, we have legalized the national database. What's gonna get better in me and Winston's life if his data is in this national database? Nothing. Winston's quality of life doesn't get any better than that, neither does my life. But who did? Database creator. A pile of money. Another personal observation. I was detained by a police officer for a very small speeding a few years ago and asked if I had any previous speedings. I said I wasn't, I usually go Nordic. He said, "But let's go see." He invited me to the police car. I sat on the bench back there, and I saw a display or a display where my personal data was fed. The first thing that came up with my picture was a red note that I was armed. Why does a regular traffic cop need to know that I own firearms and they're legal? What does that have to do with anything? I think it's totally disgusting to know in normal traffic situations. That's it. But we've actually had databases for a long time. During the Bronze Rebellion, remember, the defense police said: "Ravages, come and give yourselves up, or we will make you sure! " That computer software was already available to the defense police back then. They were able to compare the passport photos and the single rascals that were taken from the video. Of course, it was slow, primitive and very, very poor compared to today's opportunities. But it already existed, we were followed back then. Today we've been asked why we're in a hurry or why they're in a hurry. But it's very simple. The point is, when everybody's tired, people are tired, they want to go water their roses and mow their lawns. That's why. But this is still ABIS, a completely new level of building a monitoring society in the Republic of Estonia. The Riigikogu's business or task is to clear things up. Who are we seeing here today? We're seeing conservatives here. They're sitting there worried. Government departments work tensely in their offices, under enormous pressure. Of course, we have poor IT systems. As Martin Helme said, the IRS was in trouble with the break-ins. It is likely that it was the kapo who wanted access to these data again. Our medical databases are incompatible. If any of us gets into the ER today, and let's assume we're unconscious, no one in the ER doctors can see what our allergies are, or maybe somebody is, I don't know, diabetic, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, right? And on the contrary, the family doctor doesn't see from his database that his patient has entered the emergency department. It's vital data, right, but it doesn't add up. We're wasting 17 million on some shit that doesn't make our lives any better, while we have things we need to do now and now, right now. Of course, IT solutions in Estonia have become hopelessly obsolete. For years, the Reform Party has not systematically put more money in it and has not made any claims. Systems are not compatible, tens and hundreds of millions of euros have been spent developing information systems for different public authorities. The result is really bad. Surveillance. COVID's passports were discussed in the European Parliamentary Assembly. All delegations were extremely concerned, said it was a restriction of human rights, monitoring people and disproportionately. Everyone agreed. Then came the Bundeskanzlerin Angela Merkel, who ended this discussion and said that in July the app would come. That's it. All kinds of human rights discussions ended there. I think it's the same pattern here. We are still approaching where the Chinese have already arrived. It's actually worrying. Strangely enough, the media is silent. They should be asking now what it is for and who needs it. There's a staggering silence instead. Finally, one might ask: what in the life of a bus driver in Kohtla-Järve or, for example, a mother in Haapsalu is getting better and better for this EUR 17 million. The answer is: nothing changes. However, this IT developer will change, 17 million will change his life for the better. Such questions should be asked whenever we make weighty decisions: what will make our lives better? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U527	I ask the Riigikogu for a speech chair in Uno Kaskpeit.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U528	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, Let's talk again... Sorry, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U529	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U530	Again, we are talking about a draft that seeks to create a new database called the Automatic biometric identification system, or ABIS, in short. The creation of this database will cost almost EUR 17 million in total. EUR 17 million to create a database for which there is no immediate practical need and which is rather another step towards a monitoring society. In addition to the data to be entered in the database when registering the permanent right of residence of holders of diplomatic passports, applicants for international protection, applicants for residence permits and citizens of the European Union and their family members, all data relating to applicants for identity documents, identity of active personnel involved in the demining work, identity of persons employed in the national expert organisation, identity of police officers, identification of rescue officers engaged in demining activities, data on persons involved in misdemeanour proceedings, detentions, data, etc. will be included in this planned database. Thus, different personal data will be collected on a massive basis. According to the bill, these data are facial images of individuals, or photographs, fingerprints, palm prints, but during the discussions of the bill, it has become apparent that ophthalmic images and DNA samples are also being collected. It is understandable to everyone that it is reasonable to collect data on persons entering the country from outside Estonia in order to ensure the security and national security of our country. However, since 2007, SIS II has been the single database for the Schengen visa area, which contains data on troubled persons who have entered the Schengen visa area and are moving visa-free between Member States. Therefore, ABIS is there to collect data on our own people. On the question of why it is necessary to collect this data in another database, when until now each institution has had all the data necessary for its work available from existing databases, which are nine in total and which remain in parallel with the new database being created, it was said that, if this database exists, for example, the Estonian Forensic Institute is good to exclude the fingerprints of policemen from the fingerprints obtained from the crime scene. Doesn't that seem like a ridiculous explanation? Do they really think our police officers don't know how to act on the scene and they leave their fingerprints or their DNA there? Is it really believed that the defense forces or the rescue services don't know where and what kind of deminer is going to disarm the explosive to collect their DNA on the grounds that in the event of an injury, you can identify who it was? Similarly, there is a questionable need to collect data on persons serving sentences in prison. These persons are already serving a sentence, so the investigation has proven their guilt, the court has been convinced of it and they have convicted them. Consequently, the police have had the necessary data to identify the person who committed the act. That should do it. Why do you need to start collecting them somewhere else? What are they gonna do with them? Now we come to the expression'monitoring society'. With the implementation of the ABIS database, the possibility to identify and personalise any person for whatever reason will be activated indiscriminately, to have an overview of each person's performance, state of health, in case, for example, an organ donor, his travels and loved ones. The odds are expanding, but for who? Of course, it is also important that some IT companies receive a large injection of money, still 17 million, for making a database that is not really necessary. This bill cannot be supported, and the Estonian Conservative People's Party does not support it because we do not support unjustified monitoring of people and the wastage of tens of millions of state money, while financing children's interest education is cut, Estonia's defence capacity and culture are destroyed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U531	Thank you. Please welcome the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Henn Põljaala.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U532	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U533	Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U534	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Good people of Estonia! We are witnessing extremely regrettable processes that Estonia's democracy and freedom are being sought precisely through these democratic possibilities and means to trample underfoot. The EKRE is already carrying out an obstruction in this Chamber for the fifth day to prevent the creation of an orwellian and dystopic monitoring society, which the Reform Party and the Centre Party are currently trying to force through the concrete draft 366. In fact, these five days are not only the only days we have fought against this bill, but they are also preceded by all the countless hours in the committees, the amendments we have prepared, in order to make the coalition understand the harmfulness of these acts, so as not to say: criminality towards the Estonian people and the state. Inevitably, the déjà-vu feeling that everything they're trying to take us to is already there. We have already been in a society in which every person was under total control, for every person, a personal dossier had been put in place by the repressive bodies of the regime in power. Today's technical means, however, are unparalleledly more advanced than these times, and the result, if used equally evilly, can be indescribably fatal. The superdata base created by the government collects various data, which at the time Estonia was occupied was, fortunately, still impossible. All biometric data, i.e. fingerprints, palmprints, eye iris images, facial image allowing photo and automatic identification, even his voice biometrics, walks and the like, will be pooled into a new super database. Some of these things are being taken over from other databases, most of them are still being collected. There has also been talk about human and military DNA. Since, on the basis of the draft, the list of new biometric data is being updated on an ongoing basis, we cannot imagine where it might go. The most drastic thing is that the advocate of the bill, the Commission's waitress, lied to our face, repeatedly saying that no new data will be collected. That's not true. The explanatory note states in black in white that existing biometric personal data, such as fingerprints, facial images, etc., will be aggregated, which I read, and other possible data in the future, with eyeiris, voice biometrics, walks and so forth. In short, anything you can invent and come up with in the future. This database will be increasingly large and larger, increasingly comprehensive and will not be limited to existing data. And to expand all this, all it takes is a minister's regulation, nothing else. It is claimed that these data are separated from the person's name and cannot be aggregated. However, all users of the superdata base have a so-called key that brings together the name and biometric data. Any lock that man has created can be broken. One could say, as the government states, that this will contribute to the identification of criminals in the future. True, but it is highly doubtful that society as a whole and all people are treated as potential criminals. Who will prevent leaking or abuse of the database? Who will prevent it from falling into the hands of cyber criminals or our enemies? All the more so, the server that contains the database was designed to move out of Estonia. What prevents a key from falling into foreign hands? Why do we create another one for existing databases and thus increase the potential security risks? Why is it so urgent that the coalition refuses all the discussions, proposals and compromises that the EKRE has repeatedly proposed? Questions that don't have answers are a zillion. In order to speed up the procedure, even several other important drafts were removed from the Riigikogu agenda. The EKRE is accused of inciting unfounded fears, of obstructing the work of the Riigikogu and of losing sight of parliamentary democracy. Lenin and the Kingsmith turn around in the grave with joy. Yes, they will, and they will! We are delighted because we are creating a totalitarian surveillance society and a police state by today's authorities. We are witnessing the government making a series of different drafts that all straw by straw create a police state. It is characteristic of the Minister of the Interior's testimony that his worldview is a policeman's view of the world. If we add the hate speech law and the super-data base, we are moving into an inhuman and dystopic society that the EKRE firmly opposes to the end. In Germany, mass repression and concentration camps were also achieved after the exploitation and abuse of democratic processes. Can we get some parallels here? Are we going to have a liberal Nazi society? I don't know. What's amazing is that the media has swallowed it all and is interested in how much it costs. Good people! It doesn't cost much. Members of the Riigikogu shall not receive additional fees for night sessions and additional sessions. But what costs is a database. Instead of asking what would cost an obstruction, we might ask ourselves, " What do we stick to this obstruction? ' We will save a total of EUR 17 million if we can prevent it. That's all the money the government wants to cut off the Defence Forces budget for the first year. The EKRE will never agree that our security, democracy and defence capabilities will be put into consideration. If we manage to prevent this, we will save democracy, freedom, integrity and security in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U535	Thank you. Leo Kunnas, please speak to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U536	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U537	And you're about to get it. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U538	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, who are few in this Chamber! Since this is my only speech in today's sitting, I will use it to analyse the current status of the obstruction and the circumstances surrounding it. But on a specific draft, there are a lot of unanswered questions. There is no impact analysis on both security risks and the potential for abuse. Of course, this is all in the context of other events that have recently taken place. We have had a number of drafts that have tried to transfer appropriate and appropriate measures to national special law regimes in normal situations. We also had a clear example of excessive use of police force on 11 April. All these things are in context. But now I'm going to the subject that I wanted to address. Good George! No doubt you have much greater experience in obstruction because you're an old fish in Parliament, I'm a newcomer here, green. But I've learned that management, discipline and planning are important for obstruction. In that sense, it's almost like a military operation. I also commended you for the fact that it was a pretty good response from the coalition to simply cut out as many drafts as possible, i.e. two other readings, which will do each for at least three hours, can be three and a half, and the first three readings, including an hour like this each, or a little bit after that, will make ten hours of pure victory. But it doesn't help enough, because the initial loss of five hours was due to the fact that the initial mammoth session was divided into two, and, of course, when we combined yesterday's victory, it was five or six hours already on our side. So the ten hours they won just made up for it. Of course, as an opposition, we also have different legal options. One is procedural questions. I understand it's some kind of brain composting that's coming in your direction, but there's nothing to do. There are other very simple possibilities, such as referring to names. You can simply list a group and read it out, and each name means two minutes if the name has not been mentioned before. But, of course, I'm not going to do that right now. I just gave it an example. It's almost like fighting in battle: when one side takes a step, the other one takes a step back. So in this interaction, these few days of ours will develop. I'll look at it myself, say it like that, with calm friendliness. Since I have rarely made a joke about the Riigikogu's remote control, I would now allow myself a joke. My children went to Musamar (this is a singing circle) when they were still preschool. My son Karl learned a song that he was singing and called "Royal Roller." That song had some very interesting words: "Royal roller, road roller, what are you doing? I'll roll some tea. I'll roll some tea. " Then came this sentence: " Roll in some coffee, too! " It goes well in the context of this example of the anti tank ditch. Well, if there's a roller that's been rolled by the coalition and that's been rolling unstoppably for 30 years in the hands of different coalitions and relatively impeccable and oiled, then we have an anti-tank ditch here too. Of course, you can put a second turn on the roller or make a little turn and try to get past it. But as a militaryman, I can say that there are other pioneer barriers besides anti-tank ditches, and they can be applied here. As soon as we do, we will apply them to keep our forces in balance. Where are we? It's about five o'clock, it's two-thirds past today's session, and we're still on call. The members of our group, who in the meantime had to carry out their party duties in the circles, are well on their way back and will also receive their speeches. Now there will be 75 amendments. Here again is simple mathematics. Let's multiply it by 75 first by 10, we get 750 minutes, and if we divide it into hours, we get 12.5 hours nicely, so the processing of the amendments together with the breaks takes just 12.5 hours. Of course, there will be more minutes from the presence checks. These presence checks are such interesting things that if, in any case, the respected coalition ambassadors do not make it to the hall or can't press the buttons and the presence falls below 51 or 50, then the road roller of today will automatically jam and proceed to the next session, which will take place tomorrow. I have already mentioned that my personal respect, respect for the coalition ambassadors and the coalition as a whole, is unchangeable and permanent, in a positive sense. But I would like to remind you once again that voting off the amendments to the 2035 strategy, i.e. the protection costs of 2.6%, was not a sensible thing to do. You could have offered one of your options, 2.5% or 2.4%, if you didn't like the options we offered. For example, you don't want to see tanks, you want to see MLRS instead. Why not? You can negotiate all of this, there's no question. You missed that opportunity. Of course, this particular fact, despite my personal positive emotions and attitude to the whole thing, has made me very motivated to deal with this obstruction that is happening now as thoroughly as I can. I also hope, for my part, that we can still find some compromise here, and I propose it again in this chair. But since I've got 23 to 22 seconds left, I'm not gonna be full of it. That's it, I'm done with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U539	Thank you. Riigikogu speech chair Jaak Valge, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U540	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U541	Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U542	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear technical staff! We are now discussing the creation of a super-data base that could take us a step closer to a monitoring society. I do not want to overdramatise here at all, it is true that it is not the case that if we reject this bill, we will be rid of the surveillance society forever and forever, and if we adopt this bill, then all of us will be guarded in the future by the Big Brother. That is not the case, but it is certainly a step in the wrong direction, and somewhere it has to fight back. By the way, as Moonika Helme, my fellow member of the Cultural Commission knows exactly, this draft is also included in the draft law amending the Media Services Act, which seeks to limit the right to reflect phenomena and processes in a free form. Okay. But now I would like to explain to you, where does this mindset come from in the first place, that society is not a community of free citizens, whose moral standards are constantly rising in themselves, but a set of people designed from above, whose effective processing in a specific direction requires both restriction of freedom of expression and information on the basis of which this treatment is carried out. I will say right now that this ideology or theory is what is called Marxism. In order to place it in the context of the draft, the nature and defects of this Marxist thinking must be understood. In fact, I started with a little review of the Marquise already during one of the last performances. Now let me remind you where I left off. I explained that the influence of Marx as a theorist has been immense for the social thought of modern times, and Marx's social philosophy and macrosociology continue to be the subject of interpretation. If you think there's been a loss of interest in Marx in the collapse of the Soviet Union, you're wrong. Perhaps even vice versa, in the Western academia, Marx continues to be extremely popular as the founder of the conflict paradigm in sociology. If you are thinking, for example, of our recent campaigns, which have usually started in the United States, where people of different sexual orientations, or people of different sexes or different skin colors are opposed, what is this other than the creative development of the paradigm of this conflict? Very often modern feminists, or at least one stream of feminists, rely on Marx. So, what is there, the best thing to do is to deal with and analyse the issues on the basis of sources. We go to Marxism by looking at Marx's writings. But before I do, I'm gonna have to take a look at the social setting where Marx lived when he wrote his books. It is necessary to learn his way of thinking and why he may have been wrong. Perhaps a bit preconceived: he was wrong to project the changes that took place in his life in society, including the future, without realising that society did not really change in one direction. So, at the time, during Marx's fertile life, Western Europe was characterised by a process called modernisation or industrialisation. In the second half of the 19th century this process began; in Estonia it started somewhat later, in Eastern Europe and in Estonia a century later. This was first of all the fact that industry began to occupy an increasing part of the workforce. You see, the proletariat class came into existence, the industry began to occupy an increasing part of the workforce and also created demand for agricultural products and services. As the industry developed, it increased both its total production and its income per capita. Together with this rational way of thinking, it stimulated a more rational organisation of companies. Perhaps certain dates and certain figures are also important to you. England's industrial revolution began in the second half of the 18th century. Perhaps Professor Black wants to improve some details later, but in the second half of the 18th century it began and this change was an extremely rapid industrialization. When, in 1750, 10% of England's workforce was occupied in industry, processing and mines, in fact, I mean the labor force of all the British islands, then 100 years later, in 1851, the same number was 43% and in 1901 46%. This took place over 100 years and, in fact, during this 100 years society's face completely changed. In France and Germany, these changes started a little later, in Scandinavia the same way and in Eastern Europe even later. Do I have that three minutes on? Got it. Okay. Then I'm quitting here right now. If I am given the next chance, of course, I will address the organisational model that arose during its industrialisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U543	Does Helle-Moonika Helme have a rejoinder request?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U544	Yeah, thanks, I'm sure I have that wish. Since Jaak Valge is a great specialist in democratic decision-making and as a historian certainly knows what such techniques, where monitoring, which is so personalized in detail, brings with it, are difficult to add anything to him here. There has been a lot of talk about this today. But I used a data communication device from the People's Republic of China here in the meantime. Speaking of the People's Republic of China, of course, everyone knows how far they have evolved by creating a monitoring society, how far they have developed the technology of a monitoring society. But what I read in this data communication device in the meantime was that the rescuers have placed a call on social media to support the savior pay rise. It says here that on payday, the savior will take home about 900 euros, while they will do a life-threatening job, but we all need the most. With the EUR 17 million that will be put into creating a super database, the real wage increase of the rescuers could be done first. Once it's done, we could go on with the database development. Databases do not erase our house, they do not erase the forest or save people drowning from the sea, databases do not cut victims of car accidents out of the car or bring down our beloved pets from the tree. Let us redefine the priorities, society would be grateful. Thank you for the opportunity to reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U545	Aadu Black, do you have a rejoinder request?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U546	Yes, I would.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U547	Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U548	I mean, this is history. I want to comfort everyone who is here: do not think that this is some childish fear of technological progress that excites our colleagues, it is a centuries of fear of tool rebellion. It was already written in the 16th century that hammers would come and kill their masters. Information technology is a bit different: an IT society is like a train built on the road and, in the meantime, it stays behind. There have been a number of things here that should be a source of comfort to good colleagues. Now, don't think we're so digitally prepared that we don't have to do anything better. I can give a lecture, my format is, of course, 45 minutes plus recess, but I don't abuse it today and all I want to say is that we really have made a lot of mistakes in the databases if you look at even the police databases. I hope I don't betray state secrets. It has always been possible to make them much and much better. In the Committee on Culture, we can see that without supercomputers and without information systems, we are in trouble in the eyes of the world. Just because we're all saying that we're good at using Google, it suddenly turns out that the rest of the world is already working on the metadata and says there's nothing you can do about these childish things. I still have the consolation of my fears. You know, every programmer, every information mechanologist knows what kind of things are locks and how effective they are when it's agreed what kind of lock they put on one thing or another. However, there is a trace of each individual, it is fixed, there are those responsible for ensuring that the systems are honest and public. But, of course, it is that we are in a strange world if we do not join this information technology that will take us forward to European society. Then we need an alternative to join in this case. That's a pretty serious question. That we're doing something entirely ourselves and doing some of our ugri-mug country that they tried to explain to me at the gate, you know, it's such a cute nostalgic story, but it's a history that you can and must learn from, but you can't live in. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Thank you, Jack!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U549	Yeah, the rejoinder option is up to two minutes, so I'll draw attention. Now, please, Kert Kingo!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U550	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U551	Please! Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U552	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Here we are discussing a bill that wants to legitimise another collection of data, the collection of certain types of personal data into another database. How many of these databases do we have already? Everyone is supposed to have a purpose, everything is necessary to do the job, nothing can be done without them. And we keep gathering and gathering. We don't tell people what we do with them, we say we need to. Nobody deals with whether the need is justified or not. We just need it and we keep collecting it. Each ministry has its own database, and many different data, including personal data, are also collected there. Each national authority and authority has its own database, which also collects data on persons, depending on what the agency is dealing with or what its field of activity is. It is not the present draft, which aims to create this database ABIS, that the existing databases will not disappear, they will remain in parallel. The Minister of the Interior claims that the database is necessary to enable criminal proceedings and identification of persons to be carried out more effectively. I wonder how we've been able to identify people so far. Effectively. How are the Deminators of the Rescue Board involved in criminal proceedings, for example, in the need to collect their data? What does this have to do with the identity of the active troops, the persons involved in the mine clearance? Why is it necessary to collect data from police officers? When I spoke with the Ministry of the Interior official on this subject, I asked him why, for example, it was necessary to collect the fingerprints of a police officer (for example, all persons working in such positions have, after all, been thoroughly checked in relation to the background). I received an answer that the Estonian Forensic Institute would then find it easier to rule out the fingerprints of the police from the scene. I asked if you really thought the crime scene was the kind of place they'd just go to. There are certain standards for the scene, clear instructions on how to behave there. There are plastic costumes on, there is a provision for not falling into the scene we are still talking about particularly dangerous or serious crimes of DNA in the form of hair or fabric fiber. I said the cops aren't stupid, they're going to the scene and they're leaving their fingerprints and footprints all over the place. Why collect police officers' records? The answer was, of course, that in addition to the fingerprints and palm prints, there would be iris images, DNA samples. Then, with our discussion, we reached the point where we need to collect the DNA of the rescue deminerators. When I asked you why, I got the answer in case of an accident at work and something was wrong. I mean, people, there's no such thing as a rescue deminator going to make a safe explosive device without anyone knowing where he's going or who the employee is going to be. This kind of action all goes through the Alert Center, it's all written down. It's always possible to check who went where and what he did. Think now how effective and justified these arguments were that these data need to be collected. Similarly, think that these data are collected in such situations. What does this have to do with detecting crimes? Nothing to do with it. The most ironic thing is that they're going to be collecting records of those who are in prison. Let us think of the words of the Minister of the Interior: to detect crime. These people are already in prison, what is there to discover? Everything's been discovered, everything's been identified, and the police have managed without this ABIS database. Has identified a person, has found that he was involved in this violation, whatever he is accused of, that he has committed the act. The court is convinced that this has been proved, and the person is serving a sentence in prison. And now the smart people are saying that we need to start collecting data on people who are in prison for fighting crime. Any logical person will realize that this is bullshit. This is bullshit. Until now, the tools of the criminal police, the databases that I know very well, because I have used them myself, have worked very well, there are no problems. Any person detained in a detention facility shall be given all necessary information. All data are available to the police when it is necessary to identify the person who has committed a serious crime or who has committed a crime at all. There are other institutions in the same way. If, for example, the Forensic Institute is accidentally missing data and is not available in its database, then there is always an opportunity to ask for additional data from another institution. But then there's got to be a reason for this thing, for which we need some data. Then you can see who asked for what, whose data. This is fully in line with the Personal Data Protection Act. All the more so, the question arises that all the other institutions whose data will be placed there would be able to use it jointly: the Foreign Intelligence Service, the Defence Police Department, for granted. I will read to you here immediately that the data of the holders of diplomatic passports, the data relating to the applicant for an identity document, the data obtained from the dactyloscopation of an active military officer involved in the mine clearance work, the data relating to the acquisition or restoration of Estonian citizenship, the identity of the person working in the National Expertise Institution, the employee, will be collected in the database, i.e. residence permits and residence cards, will, of course, be part of criminal proceedings separately, although the criminal police use five-month databases, the police officer's dactyloscopy data, and everything. Where do I want to go with what I'm saying? Paragraph 9 (3) of § 1 of this draft states: "The verification of identity is a procedure whereby it is established that it is the person who it is supposed to be. " And now it is claimed that this requires a separate database. That if, for example, Jaak White or anyone here comes to work in the Riigikogu, then we need to make a separate database. His ID card doesn't apply, but we need his fingerprints and maybe his DNA, because we don't know if he's Jaak White or if he's Mart Helme. We don't know, we're making a database. Is that how it's gonna be? Finally, this database is not really necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U553	Peter Ernits, please! Mr. White, do you have a rejoinder request? Mr. Ernits, please hold for a moment, Mr. White would like to say a recliner.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U554	My good name was mentioned several times in this report, and I have to recite. You see, indeed, one of the arguments behind this draft and the creation of this super-data base is the prevention of crime. We do not know whether it can be useful or not. I understand that, in the opinion of a good colleague, Kert Kingo, there is no benefit. But what do I want to say? In fact, there is one such conflict of thinking. For starters, I'll tell you a short story. I wrote an article a few years ago in which I noted that Estonia is actually a very liveable country compared to many other European countries. I had just had a number of acquaintances from Barcelona, Spain, and more or less everyone had stolen something. I wrote that I haven't locked my bike in Kuressaare for eight years and, of course, I've been riding the same bike all the time, never stolen. So, what happened? What happened was that the Kuressaare police responded with their counter-opinion and put their hearts to the citizens, so be sure to lock the bikes, otherwise they'll steal them. That's it. Thinking isn't so black and white, it's kind of intermediate. But it's an expression of a police mindset. Conservative thinking is that trust creates trust, trust creates social capital. If I don't lock my bike, I trust my fellow citizens, and they respect my fortune. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U555	Let's move on with the negotiations. Good Kert Kingo, I would like to point out that there is a possibility of a rejoinder in the negotiations, that there is no reclining in the reclining. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U556	Thank you. Of course, I do not know whether the three minutes taken from me by the President can be welded here or not. That's three extra minutes, but I'm gonna give the manager some time to think about it right now. Ladies and gentlemen, What do you say to that? A lot has been said here, I have read this draft on the front and on the back and on the rows, made a lot of comments. He's also very brittle in performance, very, very brittle, once upon a time. But I'm not gonna stop at it. If you remember, once a hundred years ago, Spielberg was a film that the main character had finally had to change his eyeballs so that they couldn't use the scanners that were up all over the place to tell who was who. I don't think this bill is going to get there right away, but it needs to be taken very seriously. If you look at a little bit at this reception, at how it is formed, I would remind you that this bill was conceived at the meeting of the Government of the Republic on 29 June 2017. Who was the Prime Minister back then? George Ratas. And who was the Minister of Justice back then? Andres Anvelt. At the time, 2017 it was decided to allocate EUR 14832000 plus EUR 1737448. That's it. That's the first point. What was the purpose? Create a legal basis for ABIS database. There it starts with photos and facial images and fingerprints that are already stored in the first stage. But if somewhere it is said that in the first stage, then then there must also be a second and a third, and perhaps a fourth. But the second, third and fourth are left unsuited. And there are references to it. Further, if a legal body has already been created, it is already possible to do so at ministerial level. I would remind you that the Ministry of Justice did not draw up a plan of development at that time. The main reason was that the intention to develop was general. An impact assessment was needed, an assessment by the Ministry of Justice was required, and there is no significant public interest in including ten fingerprints in the document issue procedure. So you don't need ten fingers. But I'm not gonna talk anymore. And all the drafts that we have to amend here, all of them, the Defence Service Act and the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Consular Law and the Border Act, etc. I'm not going to read everything. Anyone who's read knows. By the way, I also took out when it was spoken of the iris images that [it might be] someday in the future, then I will recall August 2006. The Minister of the Interior was the current Minister of Defence in Laanet, the Minister of Justice was Rein Lang, and the Prime Minister was Ansip. The law amending the Law on Identity Documents and the State Fees Act was then passed. It explicitly says that the iris images will also be traded, no like the color of hair and some other things. But we will now come back to this bill, to a specific bill. We were talking about conception. But what came out of it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U557	Mr. Ernits, would you like some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U558	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U559	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U560	Three or six minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U561	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U562	Okay. They just happened to come out on April 5. If you remember, Toompea was boiling, people were on the streets. On the agenda was the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases and the Law on Media Services. On 7 April, Prime Minister Kallas planned to come here with his White Paper. The people protested against the emergence of a police state, and dogs and riot police were immediately brought out. And at the same time, on Monday, April 5, this bill came out. So I think it's remarkable, the context in which the coalition came up with it. Kristian Jaani, who now, as I am told, will not allow it to be withdrawn, is behind it. Kristian is the Minister of the Interior. What do you think? Leon Glikman has made it clear that, in fact, such databases should be treated with great caution and the court should decide in each particular case how much and when it can be used, when it is of overriding interest. I am not against the need for such databases. Of course you do, but open the door, leaving the door still smiling, I'm not in favour of it. As far as the current road is concerned, that eggs are in different baskets, and then this is the X-Road that connects them, that there is no concern, then in the Special Committee on State Budget Control we only discussed some time ago how safe this X-Road is at all. Turns out it's not safe. If robbers can't access these egg baskets or potato baskets or whatever baskets are scattered everywhere, you can easily steal one, two and three off the X-Road. So, frankly, first of all, the draft is purely very crude and logistically and also in terms of wording, right, but on the other hand, these threats are very serious. Someone here said the press has been silent like a boar in a rye. However, some journalists have opened their mouths. Urmas Jaagant, for example, if I recall, by sending "The servants of the People." [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U563	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U564	Thank you, manager. Honourable ambassadors! We are finally on this complicated bill. Many colleagues have said that the more he reads it, the creepier he gets. One person who said that there were many problems in this bill and that they had discussed it seriously with their party associates was Jürgen Ligi in the Postimees direct studio. He said there were a lot of problems. In this very direct studio of Postimees, it was felt that he had not read too much of this text, but he had already discovered a lot of worrying things. This shows that his concern has increased, too, and his fellow partyers' concern has grown as the text deepens. That's a good figure. EKRE Ministers have also recognised that officials have been very good at selling it to them over time. But the more they looked into it, the worse the picture got. After all, all of this is to assure us that it is worthwhile to take the same approach and ask serious questions. We want to be a leading IT country, but do we want to be the best monitoring countries in the world? I seriously doubt that. Rather, we should set an example in cyber defence, data protection, the protection of our freedoms. Because freedoms are also fragile when an unfriendly country simply breaks down and steals an important database. When it comes to security, you immediately remember how the corona information leaked from a ministry. A very sensitive database still leaked, and they keep leaking. So this song of a particularly secure database that we've heard, well, what a man has done, that a person can break. Now I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U565	Three minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U566	Three, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U567	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U568	As regards the reasoning given by the Ministry and the officials, one argument is that all the other databases that are added together are very old. If we look at the forensic database, for example, it's not that old. It was refreshed in 2013 and later. So they're not from the early 2000s, so many databases have been up to date. What is one important aspect of data protection? The precautionary principle. Let's be careful, let's not share too kindly! Perhaps this general IT enthusiasm, which is around us, will also encourage us to be overly enthusiastic in creating surveillance systems. That won't be necessary. Kert Kingo highlighted the problems of supervision. Of course, a police officer would like his life to be as simple as possible, and the easiest thing to do would be to get all the information in the clock, have modern information technology tools like James Bond, and keep living. Everything's handy. But we have somehow made the protection of fundamental rights between what is, for God's sake, one good thing that protects people's privacy, their data, their private life. So it doesn't have to be a perfectly easy life for an official to have an avalanche of facial images rushing into his database when applying for an ID card. Well, it doesn't have to be perfectly easy. Let him apply for permission, that's normal. I'd like to talk a little bit about what maybe less has been mentioned. In fact, the very worrying visions of the future have been drawn completely unashamedly into the texts of officials. The Home Office notes that yes, we are considering sharing these facial recognition data with banks. But it's a revolution in personal identification when the teller is beginning to identify you with a facial image. It's not just an ID card, it's a pop, the camera's gonna check, a request will be sent. Consequently, our main detection method is no longer a name and an ID-card, but a biometric. It's a very big change. Of course, if it's already shared with the banks, that means they'll soon be shared with everyone. Pretty threatening visions were also set out in this explanatory memorandum. In order to ensure better protection of personal data, biometric personal data are not stored together with biometric data, but it was pointed out what other data could be, which has been mentioned. They consider the biometric data base to be possible for future ophthalmic recordings, voice biometrics. Have you ever heard of it? Voice biometrics! Walk! Jürgen Near walk, think, how exciting, it's saved somewhere. If you're not identified by anything else, you'll be identified by such a tumultuous athletic walk. I'd be worried if it was normal. This is serious. British newspapers are thrilling about pilot projects, companies are exploring the possibilities of facial recognition on bar doors, biometric identification, who is unvaccinated and who is not, and discussing how to get this corona thing broken, the bar door pops and they say that this guy can go for a drink in the pub, and it stays on the sidelines. Is this a positive development, a data protection development? Two lines, two kinds of people: who get into the cafeteria and who don't. It's already a dystopic view of the future. If I were you, I'd be worried, not just about your personal data, but about all your data. Old European countries have been very conservative in sharing such data, especially in Western Europe, in Britain. So I would say that the precautionary principle, through the Estonian proverb, says that the wise does not rush. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Think carefully! Let's consider it ten times before we create a base like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U569	Mr. Jürgen Ligi, do you have a rejoinder?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U570	Thank you, Mr President. Well, he's a bit of a fool for me to react. The overall background noise I heard in the office certainly contains a great deal of what I should argue with. But the sound of his own name will unwittingly remain in his ear. The previous speaker has been quoting me here for several nights and days. I'm gonna have to sort this out first. No, I didn't say there were very big problems with this law. I said that we had concerns in the group, and I mentioned this in this debate because this pranking rule out the substantive debate, we cannot really communicate or argue. But what's to deny is that I've gotten worse, these problems have largely gone down, and the other details of this noise confirm that the other side is also incapable of increasing any concerns. For example, I heard that 15 million here is the main problem again. People do not listen to this money being spent long ago, it was allocated in 2017, it can no longer be used for defence costs, for example, etc. But yes, hearing is optional. I'm sorry I picked out any details at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U571	Kert Kingo, is there a request for a reply?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U572	Yeah, I have a reply request. As the previous speaker, Anti Poolamets, mentioned that I had questions about the monitoring of the ABIS database, I think it is necessary to clarify what these issues were about. I myself have worked in state offices: the Tax and Customs Board, the Police and Border Guard Board. There, the internal control department started most disciplinary proceedings precisely because the databases held by the officials were not used for work, databases containing personal data, personal data or data relating to the person's private life, and, let's say, commercial activities. They've been most viewed. This means that, if the new database is now to be implemented and if so, it is initially said that 800 officials will have access to this database. Given that it covers about ten databases, the data that will be transferred there, it is very likely that these officials will be even more. Monitoring is therefore one of the most important things. Officials are just people, curiosity is the greatest... I'm not saying it's directly evil, sometimes he's a virtue, detectives have curiosity in a virtue. But people are people, people are breaking. It is very interesting to look at data on a neighbor's wife or a man's fine female colleague. It's done all the time. This draft is very, very superficially reflected by the supervisory body, so that it is not at all clear whether there will be any supervision and what it will be like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U573	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U574	I'll have three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U575	Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U576	Ladies and gentlemen, Good people who watch through TV screens! Of course, the greatest greetings to the masses who are now in front of the Riigikogu and with interest are watching what is happening in this Chamber. Thank you to all of you who have taken this rainy weather to come out and stand for the survival of the Estonian state because, in fact, we only have one Estonia, we have nowhere else to go, this is our home, and this is what we need to protect. But nice, then let's go to this bill. 366 SE second reading. Its name is very diabolical: the law amending the Identity Documents Act and related amendments to other laws. A few moments ago, I came here with a good colleague, Heiki Hepner, to discuss the matter before the remote came, and Heiki tried to make it clear to me that there were some good things and there were some bad things. But, well, the logical approach should be to sit the parties down, look things through, and then make decisions that don't have that kind of fire on them. I remember very clearly when I spoke to the officials of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and asked what was going on, why was needed so quickly. Then they said it was urgent. It's urgent. I wonder why it's urgent. There are two options. This speed may depend on the need to adopt some kind of law so that it can be implemented quickly or quickly, for example, in the summer or autumn. That could be one reason. But maybe it's because the money has already been put to work, it's already done, because it's certainly hoped that this law will be passed. I would say right now neither option is out of the question. I would also touch a little bit of the substance of the bill before I go to the so-called banging theory. First of all, I was absolutely compatible with the Anti-Poland Forest's view that this is a revolution in identity recognition. Maybe what's the revolution that Anti mentioned? The revolution does this by overthrowing the current regime. If the regime is overthrown, then there will certainly be anarchy in place for some time, when the regulatory bodies, say, the security and police services have not settled down in accordance with the will of the author of the revolution. Of course, exactly as Anti said, the revolution may not end in victory. What does that mean? It brings chaos, loss of people, and everything else. I think it's diabolical. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we have just discussed the issue of why we need it. I believe that there has already been so much criticism of this matter in this Chamber today, but I would also like to point out some facts from the 'kitchen' of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. When they came to introduce us, they said, oh, it's just national, there's nothing wrong with it, all we need to do is identify the people, and that's it. When I asked you to say, a good representative of the Ministry of the Interior, which people in Estonia have not yet been identified, it was unfortunately forced to say that we do not have such people. Then Thomas Kivimägi, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, from the Reform Party, rushed to help. To be honest, I appreciate this man very much because he has, in fact, achieved absolute authority on both sides, by both the opposition and by the coalition, because he is trying to manage as much of the Commission's work as it is possible in his eyes. But it is clear that he had to, let's say, comply with the government's demands and push this bill through. But what did Thomas Kivimägi say? He said: "Oh, I wouldn't mind my fingerprints or biometric data going somewhere in the database, then it's clear that I'm not doing the crimes that I have to be afraid of. " Start believing that sentence. I don't think so. Because when we look into the draft, it says that we collect biometric data on active troops, we collect biometric data on security authorities, police personnel, we collect biometric data on special demoters who are exposed to explosives. In the light of Toomas Kivimäe's theory, the biggest criminals should be in our security facilities right now. Unintelligible. But perhaps it is, because there would have been no harassment of the people here by the staff of the security authorities if the riots in April were this year. Not the unrest, but the people came to stand up for their fundamental rights in order to express themselves freely. How much time do I have? One minute and 47 seconds. I want to say that we have to abide by strict rules in legislation, but as we have already seen today, we do not always do so. In essence, I can say that if the Estonian people in the riots of April or not in the riots, but, let's say, at demonstrations out here, proved that we have a police state, I think today it became clear that we have a police state here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. President of the Riigikogu Jüri Ratas takes the floor of peace and says that so, the time for protests is only one minute. Hello, winter! That's not what the law says. How is that possible? But therefore, it is because the President of the Riigikogu says so by crossing our laws, which are written and which we must follow. I now come to the procedure for this draft. It was incomprehensible to me to process it. First, the draft amendments were incorporated. Whoever joined, we don't know. We don't know that because it was put on the table and we started voting on these connections. Once I pointed that out, of course, there was a panic in the house. But okay, I don't have much time. Tell me how the amendments to the Citizenship Act, the amendments to the Consular Act, the amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure can be combined when they are integrated into a single package. I may be on one side, but I'm not on the other side. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] We create anarchy in the creation of the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U577	Mr. Semimets, is it a request for a reply?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U578	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U579	Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U580	Mr Grünthal mentioned the subject of revolutionary changes. When we look at what is happening in Uiguria, we can see that, of course, is a drastic example of how one ethnic indigenous nation, a minority in the sense of China, is being pursued, and what an unspeakable tracking system they have created by biometric means. Well, of course, we feel like we have a proper rule of law and what could happen here. However, if we take a look at the events of this summer, when discussing which passports to share with people, vaccine passports to one and the other, some of the events will not be, it is also an example that we are indeed in the process of amazing changes. So there are risks of abuse. Let us think for ourselves that many people may be at risk of blood clots with the AstraZeneca vaccine or some other vaccine, but the result is that they cannot even go to a public room, a concert or a cafe. Maybe they wear a mask or do something else, eat vitamins and protect themselves differently, but we already have a split: right and left. So these are the dangers that we have on the table right now because of the corona issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U581	Mr. Hepner, would you like a line?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U582	Yes, I would actually take this opportunity to reiterate the call made by Mr Reinsalu today at the beginning of the sitting to seek a compromise. Indeed, much more complex issues have been resolved in this Chamber than this draft. It is somewhat bizarre that we have reached a situation where the parties do not want to retreat an inch and try very stubbornly simply to assemble horns. Looking at what we have in the work programme for next week, this list is impressively long. Indeed, this is a clear obstacle to substantive work. There would still be a repeat of this proposal, which could have been made in the morning, that the Government Union would have interrupted the procedure for the draft today, that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs would examine the new proposals in substance, and that if, however, no common part and compromise were found, it could be linked to the government's vote of confidence afterwards. In the meantime, the Riigikogu would still be able to work normally, which we have a great deal to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U583	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U584	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, especially colleagues from the EKRE Group. I came here in the sincere hope that you wouldn't just delay time, but that was one of the questions that really interests you. Some arguments had never been heard. I'd just like to offer you some material to think about. There is a fantasticly interesting monograph of "100 years of forensics," the author of which does not exactly say, a long time ago I read Thorwald, I think. For example, there is a discussion of how Britain laid the foundation for the creation of a collection of dactyloscopics. It started with the death of one child. The killer left his fingerprints, and in order to find him, every man in the middle of England had to be examined. There was reason to believe that it was a man, and they understood what would have happened if he had continued. They were looking for him for about six months. But if those fingerprints, if this base had existed right now... People realized it was really necessary and volunteered to give their fingerprints. There is a very specific story about the eighties when a serial killer was operating in one of the Soviet republics. The court identified 37 women, and he himself claimed that there were over 60 of them. He was found on his filled-in form. This means that if the base were to be used and if people could understand how important it is to compare, for example, the handwriting that it is possible to do something about it, why not? You're talking about all these databases violating our rights, that the average person remains defenseless. But who are you now when you're using Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, any Ticktokk, etc.? All of your data is collected and not all of these data are in Estonia; they are somewhere abroad. I've seen pictures of these warehouses in a southern United States: huge buildings full of our phone calls. It's happening all the time in the world. Recently, there was a scandal involving Denmark when the whole of the European Union was eavesdropped. A few years ago, the scandal was that the Americans were listening to Merkel. Shit, it's practically every week. It can be found. There's no one here to watch. The question is that it is not the specific person who has an ID card or passport, but the person who has committed a crime or who has been the victim of a crime at the right time, and it is not possible to simply take a picture to find out who it is. Several dozen people are buried every year in such a way that only a number is placed on the label and there are no names. Sometimes you ask those who can tell you that. I mean, there's just no alternative. These data are collected all over the world. Without it, nothing can be done in the current data world. Finally, I would like to say that we are in a somewhat equal position with you, except that I do not play Facebook, Instagram, Telegram or other games. There's a minimum of data on me. The one you're on Facebook has all the data. A little extra time, please, one minute!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U585	One more minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U586	But we're all filling out declarations of economic interest. All of our real estate, incomes, everything is identifiable. All the documents I present in this office are open to any person, usually to journalists. They know how I'm going, what my work schedule and life schedule is, which train I'm on. They know where I live. Not only do they know it, they're gonna put it in the paper. It's all there. I don't mean to say it's bad, but this law doesn't make a drastic difference right now. We're just in this world trend right now, and if you want to stay behind this world trend, you're gonna lose, you're gonna lose anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U587	Mr. Semimets, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U588	Completely procedural. I have a request to the ambassadors not to use sworn words from the remote and to leave them for the saloon rooms. At first, there are one-off ones and finally, I don't know, the Russian triple ones are coming, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U589	I'm closing the negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen, Let us also examine the amendments at a speedy pace. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the lead committee has taken full account of it. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U590	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I have three wishes like a goldfish. The first is that I would like this amendment to be put to the vote. The second wish is to take a ten-minute break before the vote. And three: please also carry out a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U591	The desire for a goldfish is understandable. But before we take a ten-minute break, let's try to solve Mr Stalnukhin's procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U592	Yeah, it definitely goes into the procedure. I'd like to know what I said that made some fragile souls tremble.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U593	You'll be able to discuss it outside this hall within ten minutes. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U594	Ladies and gentlemen, Let me remind you that we began to examine the amendments. But before we go to the vote on the first amendment, please check your presence. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U595	58 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present. We can go to the vote on the amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put to the vote before you Amendment 1, tabled by the lead committee, which has been fully taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U596	58 members of the Riigikogu supported the proposal, with 6 against. The proposal has been accepted. The second amendment has been tabled in favour of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the lead committee has taken full account of it. Mr. Pier.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U597	I would ask for this amendment to be voted on, for ten minutes before the vote, and for the presence check to be carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U598	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U599	Ladies and gentlemen, please carry out a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U600	57 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present. Ladies and gentlemen, I will put another amendment to the vote before you. It has been presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U601	The proposal was supported by 57 members of the Riigikogu; 2. The proposal was supported. Amendment 3. Submitted by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, the commission has failed. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U602	I would ask that this amendment be put to the vote, I would like to ask for ten minutes' recess before it, and for the presence check again.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U603	Please! Ten minutes break. Mr. Ligi, you have a procedural question. Please wait a minute, Mr. Ligi. Yes, please, Mr. Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U604	Mr President! Wouldn't it be possible to solve this presence control more effectively, so anyone who doubts their presence will press any button here and then, when the name appears, it will be there?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U605	The law provides that each member of the Riigikogu has the right to require verification of his presence before each vote at the additional sitting.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U606	But I had a suggestion to make it easier.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U607	Mr. Ligi may also request a presence check. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U608	Ladies and gentlemen, we need to carry out a verification of our presence once again. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U609	Registered to be present... Sorry, let's wait a minute. 57 members of the Riigikogu registered as presently absent at the moment 44. I will put to the vote before you Amendment 3, tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, which has not been taken into account by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U610	The proposal was supported by 5 members of the Riigikogu, 57 against. The proposal was not supported. The fourth amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Conservative People's Party, and the commission has ignored it. Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U611	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I would also like to ask that this amendment be put to the vote, before taking a ten-minute break, and then to carry out a verification of presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U612	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U613	Ladies and gentlemen, we are conducting a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U614	56 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall put to the vote before you the fourth amendment tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U615	The proposal was supported by 5 members of the Riigikogu, 55 against. The proposal was not supported. The fifth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U616	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I would also like to ask for this amendment to be voted on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, but before that, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break and ask for the verification of presence to be carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U617	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U618	Ladies and gentlemen, the intermission is over, we are conducting a presence check. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U619	56 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present. I shall put to the vote the fifth amendment tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The Governing Commission has disregarded this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U620	The proposal was supported by 7 votes against by 55 members of the Riigikogu. The proposal was not supported. The sixth amendment, tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, was rejected by the Steering Committee. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U621	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. On behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I ask for this amendment, which is very excellent, to be voted on. Before that, I ask you to take a ten-minute break and, as has already been the case today, to carry out a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U622	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U623	Ladies and gentlemen, Break's over. First, we'll do a presence check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U624	Fifty-seven envoys signed up, and there's a 44 missing. I will now vote on the sixth amendment tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, which has been rejected by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U625	It is now that there were nine in favour, 55 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The seventh amendment, tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. This has not been taken into account by the Steering Committee. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U626	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. On behalf of the EKRE Group, I would like to ask that this amendment be put to the vote. Before the vote, we would also like to take a ten-minute break and carry out a verification of presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U627	Okay, let's take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U628	It wasn't enough for two minutes. Can we go to the vote, or can we take two minutes? Let's do the presence check, please! Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U629	Fifty-six envoyed himself. We're down 45 now. Let's get to the vote. We will vote on the seventh amendment tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and the Steering Committee has not taken this into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U630	There are 6 delegates in favour of the proposal, 55 against. The proposal was not supported. Next, the eighth amendment. Its author is the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party; the commission has not taken this into account. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U631	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. On behalf of the EKRE Group, I would like to ask that this amendment be put to the vote. Before the vote, I would like to take a ten-minute break and also to carry out a verification of presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U632	Got it. We've got one procedure before we go on vacation. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U633	Thank you, Mr President. I am not a very experienced Member of Parliament. I would like to know that if the bill, for example the law, contains typing errors, whether we vote in these typing errors or who corrects them. It is not correct that we are voting on a draft law which is flawed in terms of content and is already grammatical. I'd like to know who's in charge now. I don't think your good girls have done this, I think this stone should go to Toomas Kivimäe's locker yard as head of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Since I used to praise him, I have to say a little bit about him in the meantime. What, how, what then?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U634	If there are simple linguistic corrections, basically a decimal place, then this correction can still be translated into the text of the third reading, but generally, if the Riigikogu has still voted into an invalid text, then the invalid text becomes a law and so it is. The lead committee is responsible for this. But now... Not yet. Kalle Grünthal has a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U635	I'd like to know. You were talking about decimals. But if it is, let's say it's a lie, is it going to go in faulty? (Voice in the hall: "Not goin'.")
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U636	It is sometimes appreciated by the National Journal, whether or not, but generally the invalid text goes in, it has happened before. Break ten minutes. They're gonna fix it up with the next law, and...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U637	Okay. The break taken by the Conservative People's Party is over and we can move on. First, please, let's do the presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U638	57 ambassadors registered to be present, 43 missing. We shall put to the vote Amendment No 8, tabled by the Conservative People's Party Group, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U639	There are 5 delegates in favour of the proposal, 54 against, no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Let's move on. The ninth amendment, which was tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the Commission itself. First, Kalle Grünthal has a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U640	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Paragraph 61 of our Rules of Procedure states, first paragraph, that the sittings of the Riigikogu shall be verbatimized and recorded in accordance with the procedure laid down by the governing board of the Riigikogu and translated in the same manner. Please tell me where I can get this once how this translation works for the public. Several people have already called me, so they'd like to monitor the transmission. How would that be possible? I'd like to know again.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U641	The transfer is available on the Riigikogu website. There are links on the main page and we are dropping them now: all media are going live. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U642	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. On behalf of the EKRE Group, I would like to put this amendment to the vote and, before that, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break and ask for a verification of presence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U643	Sure. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U644	The break taken by the EKRE Group was over. We are at the ninth amendment, but first we need to do a check-up on the presence. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U645	There were 58 envoys in attendance, 43 missing. We can now go to the vote on the amendment. This is the ninth amendment, the author is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has taken full account of it itself. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U646	There are 54 delegates in favour of the proposal, one against and no abstentions. The proposal has been supported. We can go to the tenth amendment tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U647	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. On behalf of the EKRE Group, I would like to ask that this amendment be put to the vote. Before the vote, please take a ten-minute break and carry out a verification of presence. I would ask all my good colleagues to think about this and support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U648	Ten-minute break, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U649	Ladies and gentlemen, recess is over again. We can go to the presence check. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U650	There are 57 ambassadors, 44 missing. We are voting on the tenth amendment, tabled by the Conservative People's Party Group, which has not been taken into account by the lead committee. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U651	Yes, this amendment was supported by 6 delegates and 55 against. The amendment was therefore not supported. Amendment 11, tabled again by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party and the Steering Committee have not taken this into account again. Oh, I'm sorry, I have to get better glasses! The Governing Commission has taken full account of this. But René Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U652	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. On behalf of the EKRE Group, I would like to ask that this amendment be put to the vote. Since the Commission has supported the proposal and the Estonians have the popular wisdom that repetition is the mother of wisdom, we give good colleagues the opportunity to support it again in this great Chamber. But before that, I would like to ask you to take a ten-minute break on behalf of the EKRE Group and carry out a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U653	Kalle Grünthal has a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U654	Thank you, President of the sitting. The Working and Rules of Procedure Act of the Riigikogu... (from the Hall: "Home and Rules of Procedure!")
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U655	Please, I can't hear you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U656	... § 77 (3) states that during the additional sitting of the Riigikogu and during the extraordinary session the presence of the Riigikogu will be checked before any other vote is taken, if any member of the Riigikogu requires verification of the presence. Now it's like I'm asking for a check-in, because the representatives of the Reform Party are watching football here with great diligence, and that's why I just didn't hear if it was put to the vote or not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U657	Yes, I can assure you that the groupmate Rene Chef put to the vote, asked for a break and also wants a check-in. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U658	Just a good President, perhaps during this ten-minute break, will make it clear to Mr Grünthal, together with the officials of the office, how you can take a break, who can vote, and when there is a presence check, this will take place before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U659	I don't think he just heard. But break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U660	Let's get back to work. We need to carry out a presence check first. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U661	56 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present. The amendment we are on is 11. Amendment 11 has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. However, please take a stand and vote. I'm sorry! Yeah, let's get to the vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U662	This amendment is supported by 5 members of the Riigikogu, 52 against, no abstentions. The amendment is not supported. Now Amendment 12. This has been presented by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The Governing Commission has disregarded this. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U663	Thank you, President-in-Office. I would ask the EKRE Group to vote in favour of this amendment, because we do indeed believe that the scanning of the eye iris is a step towards a total surveillance society. I will also take a ten-minute break and also ask for the presence check to be carried out before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U664	Sure. Please, ten minutes of recess!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U665	Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed to the sitting. Break's over. We are on Amendment 12, but before we vote on it, we will have a presence check. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U666	There were 56 ambassadors who signed up, missing 45. There's a quorum. I will now vote on the 12th amendment, tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, which has not been taken into account by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U667	This amendment was supported by 5 delegates, with 55 against. The amendment was not supported. Let's get back to work. Amendment 13, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party and the Steering Committee, has not taken this into account. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U668	Thank you, President-in-Office. I would also like to ask for a vote in favour of this amendment by the EHRE Group. I will also take a ten-minute break and also ask for a presence check before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U669	We can do all that. Ten minutes of recess, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U670	Ladies and gentlemen, the break is over, we can move on. We were in the middle of Amendment 13. But before we go to vote, we'll have a presence check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U671	There were 57 ambassadors registered, currently 44 missing. I am voting on Amendment 13, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, which has not been taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U672	The proposal was supported by 3 delegates, with 55 against. The proposal was not supported. Next, Amendment 14. The author of the proposal is the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, which has not been taken into account by the commission. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U673	Thank you, President-in-Office. I would like to ask the ECRE Group to vote in favour of this amendment. We made this amendment because we did not like paragraph 6 (5) well because the wording 'other cases provided' is vague and could lead to abuse. I will also take a ten-minute break and ask for the presence check to be carried out before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U674	Got it. We're going on a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U675	Ladies and gentlemen, the break taken by the Conservative People's Party is over, so we can move on. We are dealing with Amendment 14. Let's do the requested presence check first.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U676	There were 54 ambassadors who signed up and 47 missing. I shall put to the vote the 14th amendment, tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-12_U677	There are 5 delegates in favour of the proposal, 53 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. So, we've been really good today, working hard. We all know that the next break will probably be taken, so I will not go ahead with the amendments, but I will take five minutes of the President's break. By the time this recess is over, the session will be adjourned. So the hearing's over. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00.
