ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U1	Good fellows! Honourable Riigikogu! Members of the Government of the Republic of Great Honour! Happy Question Time Watchers! Let's start the 15th of December briefing. First, we'll run a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U2	19 members of the Riigikogu registered, 82 are missing. The following members of the Government will take part in today's Question Time: Minister of State Administration Jaak Aab, Prime Minister of Justice Maris Lauri, Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus. Dear colleagues, since we have nine issues registered in advance, I propose that we make one supplementary and one additional question each. As you know, there are two minutes to ask the question and three minutes to reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U3	Let's get started. The first questioner is Helir-Valdor Seeder, member of the Riigikogu. The question goes to Jaak Aab, Minister of Public Administration, in the role of Prime Minister. The subject of the question is the procurement of rapid tests. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U4	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, the acting Prime Minister. My question concerns the purchase of rapid tests by the Ministry of Education from Selfdiagnostics OÜ. As we know, this procurement announced by the Ministry of Education has completely failed. It is a violation of the law, a violation of the principles of free competition and a loss to the State amounting to EUR 3 million. A few days ago, the Auditor General was in this large hall and gave a destructive assessment of this procurement and expressed very clearly the conclusions of the National Audit Office. In fact, the Auditor General considered that participation in the pilot project cannot, according to the National Audit Office, be a criterion for determining which companies selling rapid tests to take the preferred offer from. As we know, only an offer from one particular company was taken. And the fact that the experience of participating in a pilot project is a prerequisite for participation in a procurement would not have followed the general principle highlighted in the Public Procurement Act, which is to make effective use of competition. In view of the large amount and period of procurement, competing offers should have been taken and could have been taken from the market and not be seen as a narrow solution in the case of a single company, even under time pressure. Ultimately, the fact that the offer was taken from only one company is not in accordance with the law. It's the Auditor General's assessment. My question is: is anyone responsible for the damage caused by this three million? Do you agree with the findings of the National Audit Office? The Auditor General says that a final assessment can be made by the Ministry of Finance. Has the Ministry of Finance started monitoring, or do you not consider it so important to create 3 million [in value] losses that you will even start monitoring?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U5	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U6	Honourable Chairman! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Now, if you look at the history of this procurement, there were several stories in the office about screening what should be done in schools. As far as I can remember, we were talking about this in the previous government. No decisions were reached. In view of the spread of the virus and the situation at the end of October, on 26 October, the Minister of Education and Research brought this proposal to the table of the Cabinet to carry out rapid testing of antigen tests in schools after the school break at the time. Surely there was very little time left to carry it forward. On 26 October, in my opinion, it was Tuesday when this topic was brought into the office, and between 28 October, without going into details, this procurement was, to my knowledge, carried out in the form of an unproclaimed public procurement. The Public Procurement Act contains exceptions to when it is possible to tender under certain conditions and in certain circumstances, and according to this section, the Ministry of Education and Research made this procurement. On 28 October, the Ministry of Education and Research also consulted the Public Procurement and State Aid Department, but as far as I know at that point, this procurement was practically complete. This cabinet decision also stated that the Ministry of Education and Research should consult the National Audit Office. As far as I know, it was done, but most likely when the unproclaimed procurement was practically carried out. Already then, you could see that these tests had to be obtained. No one could say exactly when they would run out, so pretty soon the Ministry of Education and Research also made another unproclaimed public procurement, justifying it with urgency. At that time, the offers were taken from quite a few of the respective suppliers. However, given what the Ministry of Finance has assessed, whether the details justifying such a procurement should be reviewed, on 11 November the Ministry of Finance initiated a monitoring procedure, with all public procurement not announced by the Ministry of Education and Research under review as a selective procedure in the supervisory procedure this year, including the procurement of rapid tests. When are the results expected? All the papers have been asked out of the Ministry of Education and Research and the department is working. I think the answer to what this conclusion is, the test report, we get in January.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U7	And now for the additional question. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U8	Thank you. Well, you were referring to time pressure. The Auditor General has come to the conclusion that time pressure could not and could not be the cause, and I personally am convinced of it. I have a short question: time does not allow this discussion to be held here for a long time. Already on 2 March, the Scientific Advisory Board proposed to start testing in schools. In April, the government itself came to the conclusion that it is reasonable to do so. Finally, it is said that in November, when the academic year had already begun, there were ten minutes left to make decisions and we were under time pressure. It is obvious that these are wrong management decisions. Many things, preparatory work was not done, etc. There's a mess at the Ministry of Education. But not that they were under time pressure: 2 March started and in November only decisions were made. At the end of this whole lot, the Minister of Education decided to pay a bonus to the relevant official who was responsible for carrying out this procurement in the autumn. It seems to me now that the supervision that has begun is also a delay in the process. We remember another case where the Ministry of Social Affairs, Tanel Kiik, who is the minister of the Central Party, should seem to be responsible for the millions of damage caused by the destruction of vaccines, the deterioration of vaccines in the cold warehouse. So far, it has not been clear whether anyone is responsible, who is responsible. The National Audit Office gave a very destructive assessment. The second such case has now taken place in the Ministry of Education. I feel like my hands are washing. The Centre Party does not want to deal with what is happening in the ministries of the Reform Party and, on the contrary, these things are being silenced. Tell me, do you consider the Minister of Education's decision to pay a bonus to the person responsible for carrying out such a procurement to be justified?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U9	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U10	Thank you for your question. When we talk about how fast these processes are moving, this kind of monitoring procedure actually lasts two or three months. I don't think there's that much procurement this time at the Ministry of Education and Research this year. We'll probably get to the result a little faster. I guess in the content and the process, at least in the way it was and the days it was, we were actually there. The next procurement is now being prepared as well, because there is time, as it should be. Public procurement is open with the aim of obtaining the following tests by the beginning of February, as tests, rapid testing in schools are likely to have to be continued, so the Ministry of Education and Research has assessed with the Health Board and they have talked about this in the study. At the meeting of the cabinet, I also mentioned it, and the Minister of Education and Research has also confirmed that offers should have been taken more, even if there were unproclaimed procurements. This information was available to different authorities, at least at the Health Board, it's a medical device, it's a high-speed test, and so on. So, yes, my personal assessment is also that it could have been done differently, but I cannot draw formal conclusions until the supervisory procedure has been carried out, as is the case with the law. For the reward, who got it, honestly, I don't know. I've heard about it somewhere, too. However, this should be asked by the Minister for Education and Research, which were the reasons for paying this bonus, that it was a procurement exercise or some other work experience. I'm afraid I don't know the details. I cannot comment on the details of this procedure either, and this is the subject of public procurement and state aid, and these details come from the documents that the Ministry of Education and Research is required to submit. Why was this procurement made fast? Did it comply with the law? How were these offers taken? At the end of the monitoring procedure, the inspection report shall provide that assessment. And, as usual, according to the law, there is also responsibility if, for example, the law was not observed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U11	Thank you! No further questions. I'm gonna stop working on the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U12	Let's move on to question three. It has been submitted by Riigikogu member Heiki Hepner, the Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus and the topic is compensation for electricity prices. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U13	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, Energy prices are making a crazy increase, and many Estonian families are in a very difficult situation because of this. The government has taken some steps, but they have clearly been inadequate. Instead of reducing VAT, it has been decided to start paying support to people, and as it has become the custom of this government, these decisions come with a long drive. But what's worse, the information that's coming is inadequate or contradictory. The regulation that allows support today talks about an income of EUR 673. In the Riigikogu, we have heard from ministers that it could rise to EUR 1050 or EUR 1200. I checked the website, and there's no specific information on it right now. Understandably, this amount must be increased even further, because a person with a EUR 1200 income is not rich, and I do not think they should be sent to municipalities to apply for income support and ask for it. But this is the decision of today's government, which means sending hundreds of thousands of people to local governments and making senseless bureaucracy. The State has estimated that one decision will cost EUR 7.44. Given that people have to apply for at least the following three months and there are hundreds of thousands of beneficiaries, it will cost more than EUR 10 million to pay. This money could be used to support people in a simple and universal way by reducing the value added tax on energy prices, not by creating pointless bureaucracy. These costs do not yet include additional costs such as IT solutions. That is my question: have you done some kind of socio-economic analysis of the activities currently planned? If so, what were the considerations that forced you to take such an inefficient [step] solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U14	Please, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U15	Thank you. Good questioner, this is, as a whole, a very serious issue that we are talking about. I think that we should first of all, of course, make it clear whether we are talking about eliminating the causes of this current situation or whether we are essentially talking about mitigating the consequences. I understand from your question that you now want to focus on the immediate mitigation of the consequences. And, as you have also mentioned, the government has made a series of decisions in response, which offer this relief to those who are painfully hit. This concerns the postponement of the increase in excise duty, which has an overall effect of EUR 50 million. This concerns a halving of electricity grid charges with an effect of over EUR 85 million. And we have initially decided to provide direct support to families with lower incomes in the government. Now, the intermediate developments have, of course, been rapid. The fact is that by now, we are not only talking about electricity, we are talking about gas and district heating, we are talking about everyone. But the same is the fact that it doesn't affect everyone in the same way. Those who have a greater need must also receive tangible support that can help. And that is why we really want to aim and focus precisely on such families. At the government meeting tomorrow, we will indeed have, under discussion, an additional increase in the originally planned direct payment limit in such a way that it reaches the median income. Maybe to explain what numbers we're talking about. If it is a single-member household, then it is families whose income is up to EUR 1052, I am talking about net income, not gross. If it is a two-member household with two adults, the income limit is 1578, again net. When it comes to two adults and one small child, the income limit is 1735.8. And when it comes to two adults and two bigger children, this border is already over 2600 euros. In addition to this, the government will tomorrow also discuss a halving of the gas grid fee, similar to the electricity grid fee, which would certainly provide significant relief for companies that are currently in difficulty.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U16	Now, the question to be specified. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U17	Thank you very much. Municipalities must implement the decision by receiving adequate information as well as using competent tools. On the basis of today's information, it is not even possible to predict the exact workforce yet, because this target group is not known very specifically. And it is still necessary to employ fairly highly qualified workers, because the state has the right to recover money from local governments if it turns out that support has been paid unfairly to people. During holidays, it is not the easiest task to carry out, of course, but our municipalities will probably be able to do this work if this information finally arrives. Other tools such as IT software are also important. Today it is not yet ready and the municipalities are seriously concerned that the software currently used is not always able to work. In addition to hundreds of thousands of requests, this concern is fully justified and understandable. The dissemination of incomplete information is certainly confusing for people and will not allow the municipalities to prepare for the disbursement of grants. They are [concerned], I am thinking of the municipalities, and I am also entirely of the opinion that the chosen solution is not actually sustainable and it would rather be necessary to find other ways of reducing or normalising energy prices. I would stress that it is worth serious consideration to reduce VAT from 20% to 9%, which your coalition partner has also supported. Why are you rejecting it anyway? What are you going to tell the local governments, how are they supposed to get this adequate information? And what should they do to prevent resentment from falling to them for the work done by the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U18	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U19	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good questioner! From the very beginning of your question, the question is not that nobody is willing to accept this support or that there is someone who says that he does not want this support. Personally, I think that I do not know, Heiki Hepner, Taavi Aas, we who are sitting here now, who are earning well above average wages, need no additional support from the taxpayer's pocket. This is why it has really been a desire to focus on those who are more in need and who, by that, will also receive more serious and real support. So really, as I said before, it does affect everyone alike, but everything does not feel or perceive the same effect. It is important that those who need this help actually get it, and those who need it must actually turn to the municipality. I do not agree at all with this tone, which maybe in the last few days also has been going through the various discussions on energy prices in this Chamber, where it is as if they are half derogatory or trying to stick on the label to those who need this support and ask for it. You have to ask. That is the support for providing relief in this exceptional situation, where we are now. First of all, I would like to say thank you to the municipalities for being very quick to think along with the country. So the union of urban-municipalities, so the associations of local governments have received information with Jaak Aab in the last month, and secondly, it is really a matter of thinking about how to deliver this support to people as quickly as possible, as smoothly as possible, with as little bureaucracy as possible. So I think it's a big job that's already been done. The same electronic system, under the leadership of Jaak Aab, is now ready for testing and is in progress from the beginning of the year. It can then really be used nicely by municipalities. Similarly, some misconception has arisen that someone has to run somewhere on paper. No, these invoices can be sent electronically in the same way. So, of course, it is our desire in the government, firstly, that this support be implemented as quickly as possible, reach people as quickly as possible, that it be as comfortable as possible and that this threshold be at the level where it really helps people. That is why we have raised the threshold for low-income families, as originally planned, significantly higher and in the government tomorrow I very much hope and wish that we will reach a decision on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U20	And now one more question. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U21	Thank you. Dear Minister, In my opinion, the government is only dealing with the consequences, not the causes, and also very unsuccessfully. You said the government has done a lot of work, but there is no result. We will take the same compensation or support that is planned to be paid. The high bills of October have come to the people, the high bills of November have come to the people and the high bills of December are about to come to the people, January will also come. According to the current plan, like Taavi Aas, the Minister of Economic Affairs introduced us here in the big hall, we can start submitting applications at the end of January. Once a man gets that support, we don't know that yet. And here's the thing about timing, but for two months, people have already actually paid and people don't have any money. When will this support system start to work? By spring, people will get the money. This is a completely abnormal situation. But now, speaking of the reasons, it is not appropriate for the current government to reduce VAT, to rethink the renewable energy charge, to reform the CO2 quota policy, or to use these funds to compensate. The Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications says: 'I don't know, maybe we need to negotiate.' No solutions, no solutions, no solutions. And I'm asking. The Fatherland has launched a draft for implementing a reform of the electricity market, where there is a clear solution: we propose to give home consumers and small producers freedom and the opportunity to decide and choose whether they will continue to buy electricity on the stock market or whether we will also introduce the possibility to buy electricity as a universal service at a price that would be under the control of the Competition Authority. This would prevent such exponentially high prices for consumers in the future if they made reasonable choices. Such a system has already been implemented in a number of European countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U22	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U23	Thank you, good manager. Honourable questioner! There were about seven questions I'd like to answer. The claim that no one wants to use the money for selling the CO2 quota is not true. On the contrary, the entire support package, which is reaching people directly, and which is now likely to increase in volume to 70 and above million euros as a result of tomorrow's discussions, is precisely the source of funding for CO2. So here, unfortunately, someone has led you astray. When will applications be accepted? When does money actually reach people? I cannot tell you who has misguided the statement that only by the end of January will the applications be accepted. As I said, the electronic system is now complete. It will be tested for the last few days and there will be an opportunity to submit applications at the beginning of January. Indeed, as has been said, very quickly, essentially in a few months, work has been done, which unfortunately takes six months and more in normal circumstances. I'd like it to have been faster. We would all like it to have been faster, but I'm saying that it really has been done at the maximum speed. Dealing with causes. It is clear that new production capacities are needed. The price comes down when demand is higher. If demand is higher and on the other hand supply is lower as a result of investment in energy efficiency. If the supply is higher and the demand is lower. And investing in new production capacities is an issue where the full scheme will come into government in the near future by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications. He has taken on this task in the government office, received it in the government office, and that is what he really needs to do in front of the government office. However, investment is also needed to support alternative production capacities, i.e. investment grants also at household level. Interest and willingness to invest in solar panels in your household, for example, are likely to be very high today. Unfortunately, we do not currently have an open measure in place to support it. My wish and the wish of the government is for this opportunity to be made in the near future, so that people can plan and invest in additional capacity within their own household, which would also help to keep the price lower. And the other half is about investment in smart consumption. There, in turn, is a very strong savings potential, which, once again, directly helps to keep the bills in all households [low]. These are the things where we want to speed up the pace of the government significantly, so that it is possible to open up the application for investment grants to households in the near future. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U24	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U25	Let's move on to question four. It is presented by Rene Kokk, the Minister of Justice, Maris Lauri, and the subject is environmental crime prevention legislation. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Justice! On 14 April this year, at your meeting with the Minister for the Interior, you agreed on new priorities for the fight against crime, which are undoubtedly essential and very necessary, but, unfortunately, these priorities do not include the need to prevent or address environmental crime as one of the priorities. The Minister for the Environment, the Interior and Justice of the previous government considered cooperation in this direction to be very important. Question to you: how do you today, as Minister of Justice, appreciate our legislation at the level of combating environmental crime? Is that enough? Is that good? Have the Environment Ministers made any proposals during your term of office to amend one law or to improve cooperation in this area? And for what reason could the fight against environmental crime also not have been a priority among the priorities there?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U27	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U28	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear Member of the Riigikogu, the questioner! It is undoubtedly very important that environmental crimes are dealt with, all the more so as they affect us in very different respects: our living environment in a very broad sense and there is certainly a great deal of room for improvement. As far as priority setting is concerned, I have always been guided by the fact that there cannot be many priorities. Priorities could be one and focussed on what needs to be addressed immediately and quickly. Our agreement with the Minister for the Interior is longer, because, as a result of the various discussions and as a result of the disputes, we put together a list, but we also tried to keep it short in order to focus on certain topics. For example, in the case of within-family violence, which was a major priority a few years ago, there have been very many steps forward and there could still be more and there is definitely going on, we have come to a place where things are already moving, so there is no need for further attention, so we chose hide crime as a new topic, which is actually a very broad issue and concerns economic crime, drug crime, etc. As far as environmental crime is concerned, it is undoubtedly one of the areas on which we could subsequently focus our attention once we have received such an order with these hide-and-seek actions that we have better managed the system to deal with them, including the criminal codes and everything else. With regard to this agreement and the activities of environmental ministers, unfortunately, it must be said that environmental ministers have not come up with such proposals. At the Ministry of Justice we have looked into it, we have a readiness, but environmental legislation is primarily in the field of the Ministry of the Environment, including in the area of punishment. So I really hope that the new Minister for the Environment, who has only been in office for a few weeks, will soon come to this issue and then we can move on from here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U29	And now one more question. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U30	Thank you. It is, of course, sad to hear that, in the meantime, environmental ministers have not had discussions with you on how to improve this issue. But hopefully they'll take it on the table in the future. These priorities you talked about, you actually had five of them in the last meeting, in that sense the environment could have been added to it, but I agree that if it gets too wide, then of course, the focus often begins to dissipate. But I have a request for you: be sure to put this issue on the table with the Minister for the Environment, because, in the current situation, where energy prices have also risen, some groups will certainly be tempted to start working harder to look at compliance with different laws, and I fear that we will see more waste and waste again next year under the forest. Do you share the view that this issue should actually be retabled as a matter of urgency?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U31	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U32	Thank you. Yeah, I daresay I'll take it for a discussion with the Minister of the Environment, and we'll look on our side, the Ministry of Justice's side, where we can go from. Environmental crime is really... We can talk here about dumping trash or illegal fishing and secret scavenging, but environmental crime is very wide where, say, [one thing is] throwing street trash or domestic trash, but worse is the leaking of some very dangerous and harmful substances into our water bodies or into the air. And here, in addition to penalties, it is certainly important to raise people's awareness, including corporate awareness, and perhaps also to create incentives in other ways, in the form of faster fines, for example, which could enter into force for them, so that they know that getting caught is, first, inevitable and, second, if caught, the penalty will be quick and painful enough. So I'm sure I'm gonna pick this up and we're gonna look at what we can do with the Justice Department.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U33	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U34	Let us move on to question five. This is asked by Priit Sibul, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration, in the role of Prime Minister. The issue is the inaction of the government in controlling electricity prices. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's good to see you happy in our midst back. A perfectly healthy and happy person. But now to the minister. For several weeks, we have been dealing with the price of electricity and its containment in Estonian society, and quite a number of members of the government have given different messages. But I don't understand what's really decided and done. I see that Prime Minister Kaja Kallas has said that the easing of electricity prices is behind Minister Taavi Asa, and his proposals are awaited. Last Thursday, the Minister of Finance announced that the limit for the family support measure would be raised to EUR 1050. The officials of the Ministry claim, however, that the government has not taken this decision, and there are also unnegotiable details as to whether other revenues, subsidies, dividends, etc. are included in this threshold. In addition, the IT development needed to provide grants does not yet exist. On Monday, December 13, Jaanus Kariliid, chairman of the Centre Party Group, said: "In addition, the state must also draw extremely quick conclusions in this situation as to why the development of the programme takes so long. I'm sure Signe Riisalo has some good reasons here so that there won't be such major failures in the future. " I have a question: Who exactly is behind these things: Riisalo, Asa, Pentus-Rosimannus, or Kaja Kallas?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U36	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U37	Thanks for asking. Of course, it's a topical question. I'll start a little further. The fact that the government has not thought about the crisis that we have been experiencing here for a few years or about prices, in fact, in September, although there was already an increase in prices in the air when we drafted the state budget, we were quite seriously arguing about [one thing]. It always seems that there is huge money coming, that is the effect of the last few months, where economic growth has bounced back pretty hard from taxes, but it will not help the budget for next year. The proceeds of taxes or revenue for the following year are forecast. So when we presented the state budget at the end of September, we already made a firm decision on prices. When, by the time of the crisis, excise duty was passed on to energy carriers, on electricity, gas, on diesel, we made this fundamental decision, looking to the future so that we would not raise [excise]. Or rather, we are changing the law that provided for an increase because it was meant to be a temporary measure. So we postponed the increase in excise duty, and I think it was also a pretty important decision. This will certainly affect the future. In October we were looking very hard for these solutions. There are many suggestions on the table, and the opposition has made their proposals, and they have been all over the government table. I can say that, for example, the use of a CO2 measure or CO2 money came from the customs Minister for the Environment, Tõnis Möldri. We went through these opportunities at the Ministry of Finance, and with the help of the Minister of Finance, we found a solution that was actually possible. The corresponding amendment also went through this Riigikogu very quickly. But this support measure maybe after a while. Paying off network charges for electricity by at least half if we want to set out whose thoughts they are, that was my proposal. Once again, I thank the Minister for Finance, who came up with this idea, and it was done. It was the fastest way to implement it, we made a decision at the end of October, and already in October, there were no more half of the network fee when we talk about speed. And then what? Now it is the money from CO2 trade that can be used, both under the directive and under the law, to help people on lower to middle incomes. On the one hand, it makes sense. Due to the high price of electricity, the price of CO2 is higher, so more will come and this money will have to make these subsidies. This measure has been developed. I can't comment on everything now. When it comes to information technology, because I have dealt with it closely and in detail, I know how much it has called for, also with the various authorities to coordinate and deal quickly with these matters. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] But maybe I can take a longer answer for the next question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U38	Now for the additional question. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U39	Thank you. You almost went into a historical perspective. But I listened to The First Studio, and Kaja Kallas there told host Mirko Ojakivi that he prevented the planned excise increases in Jüri Ratas' government. Now it wasn't exactly who was stopping them and who was planning them and what was going on there. But you know more than that. I have a question: did you make a man's word pay at last Thursday's government hearing? I know, and I have read, and I remember that when there was the purchase of rapid tests, you shared reasonable views and understandings with Minister Liina Kersna. But I haven't been able to understand last Thursday, when Minister Taavi Aas went with a proposal to lower the value added tax on electricity, then, as we know, he didn't get any positive feedback from the government, what were the ministers of the Central Party, including you? Did you support Taavi Asa? Is that where the salmon ran in the coalition? Or did this debate not take place and Taavi Aas was alone with his proposals, just as no member of the Central Party Group in the Riigikogu supported this proposal to reduce VAT on 23 November? I mean, it's kind of incomprehensible. The question is: will this debate continue tomorrow or where is the VAT reduction? What was the discussion in your government last Thursday?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U40	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U41	Thanks for asking. There's a lot of discussion in the government. And, as I said, ideas come from different ministers and different ministries, right, how one or the other problem can be solved, and there have been many of these different proposals. Finally, the government must consider and decide what is the power, what is the money and what are the opportunities. And these opinions are different. I would remind you that democracy is not an easy process. And let me remind you that no government makes a vote, at least it's an unwritten law, right? You could try, but no government like that can survive the first vote. So it will be these long and serious debates, including in the government, and these various proposals have been put forward. The gas network charges mentioned by the Minister of Finance have been considered and I have been working on calculations here yesterday, so I can also say that we are with the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure considering one more thing on the government's desk. I hope it can be supported. But that's how it works, there are very different suggestions. They are trying to understand what support would be available, which is also financial resources. Looking at the state budget debate, I do not know why the Fatherland or the EKRE or some other opposition party did not propose to raise a piece of the budget for next year to ease the price subsidies. You had this opportunity, the budget was in the process, you recently adopted it. Here, too, is the question of deciding why you did not make that decision. Or at least I didn't propose. So we all have to look in the mirror. These decisions in politics are complicated, and if anything can be decided, it is a good thing. I think this electricity grid charge [reimbursement] was a good decision. It supports, let's say, over the field, both the entrepreneur and the consumer. If we can implement this support measure, perhaps a few more parts that are being discussed, then everything will be OK. This support measure is complex. As foreseen in the directive and the law, it must be paid as a grant if we are using CO2 money, right, we are talking about these sources. There is no other option if it is paid through the local government as additional support. It's not social security, please don't call it that. It's an aid to mitigate price increases, and it's on the bill, isn't it? This bill, which has risen over the normal average there, which has been in the spring, let's say, that the accounting point has been taken from there, will get 80% of the price increase back. It is difficult to implement. IT solutions, I think, those who have been in the government or in the ministry know that they usually take six months. We have made this IT solution because it became clear to us that this is the best way to cut red tape through S.T.A.R.R. What's the system like, I'm not gonna make a better comment, it's gotten in the way of time, but it could be done, we did it. We did it, about over a month, the IT solution is already ready. So it's all done in a hurry.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U42	Now, on this interesting subject, one further question. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U43	Thank you. Honourable Minister! I'm gonna have to get you guys to stop demagogueing around here. In the debate on the budget, Fatherland proposed a reduction in VAT from 20% to 9%, and we also submitted a corresponding draft to the procedure as a proposal. We had a number of other proposals, which also concerned the reform of the electricity market and the possibility of people buying OTC electricity at a fixed price as a universal service, there would also be no need to pay this compensation to people. So our proposal was to avoid high prices for consumers, households and small producers, it would not be necessary to put forward bureaucratic statements and prove your income with documents. But now, democracy certainly does not have to limit itself to the debate, as you described. There are different positions in the government. President of the Centre Party Jüri Ratas supports the reduction of VAT and the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications supports the reduction of VAT, but the ambassadors of the Centre Party do not support this draft in this large hall. In the government, you do not understand, you did not answer Priit Sibula's question, how did the ministers of the Centre Party act ♪ either they left Taavi Asa alone there or you are discussing it. And democracy could end with some decisions after the debate, but, unfortunately, you have not reached the decisions. It is not like the Minister of Finance, in reply to me, said that the transmission of the electricity bill is enough for this compensation, for the grant to be paid. If there is a need-based, very good, theoretically the right idea, then there must also be proof of income, etc. This is a much more bureaucratic process. And right now, under the coronal conditions, to get people out of their homes to file applications, to consort with documents, completely unreasonable. Please tell me about this support: when will people actually receive this benefit when only applications will be submitted in January?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U44	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U45	Thank you for your question. Just as I tried to describe this process, I do not know, the honourable questioner, has also been a minister, at least in one ministry, I think it is practically at maximum speed. It is a little complicated, this support mechanism, nothing can be done. But if we use CO2 resources as a source, it is written both by directive and by law that it must be paid out as support. And the grant can be paid precisely by the local authorities, taking in the relevant documents. As far as technical implementation is concerned, we have always been in the information field with the municipalities, we have not been picking anything on our own, so the municipalities do not know anything. They know that this process is going on for a certain time. Everyone has known that it will be implemented with the Social Services and Support Data Register STAR. We don't really have any other solution, it's at least there, thank God, and to do this development, it took about a month. There is testing, which takes some time, it is compulsory testing, it is related to personal data, etc., etc. Can I play? Most municipalities have developed an electronic form, a form in which a person can digitally enter the data and can also include invoices. As far as revenue is concerned, they do not have to be proved by themselves. S.T.T.A.R. uses the Tax and Customs Board database automatically. The person writes his or her income or does not write these incomes, they are automatically taken into that decision from the tax administration's database. And it emerges from which line [of support] can or cannot be obtained according to the household. In short, as far as I know, all income will be taken into account there. Well, no one's happy that it's such a complicated system. It's a plus that we're helping people with the bill he's in the most trouble. And there are three of them: electricity, gas, and district heating. Where this person is hardest hit by price increases, 80% of this price increase can be obtained. Applications are accepted in January. Of course, it depends on each municipality how quickly they process it, but I believe that by the end of January it will be my forecast again, I cannot take the poison here if they accept the applications, and so do the municipalities, then the four-month billing allowance should come in January, at the latest at the beginning of February.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U46	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U47	Let's move on to question six. To the sixth question and... [[There's a comment in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U48	Let's move on to question seven. Ruuben Kaalep, member of the Riigikogu, asks for this, is answered by the Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus. The issue is the loss of tax revenue. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U49	Thank you, Honorable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Minister of Finance! Each year, the state of Estonia loses huge amounts of tax revenue on income earned in various online environments. One of the most important examples is the online environment OnlyFans, the content of which in Estonia also earns large profits that are not taxed, as it is generally not included in income declarations. What steps is the government planning to take to improve the taxation of profits made in OnlyFans and other similar portals?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U50	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U51	Thank you, Honourable Asker. Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! I must say, of course, that if you had formulated your question before it in the way you have asked for it, it would be possible to answer with such detail, but since the question was formulated in a very general way, concerning tax revenue, of course I do not have any specific data to take away from and accompany this particular portal or example at the moment. In general, when we talk more generally about the taxation of digital business, the so-called digital tax, the global tax agreement agreed at OECD level is quite fresh, the beginning of which was precisely linked to the taxation of large, say, digital conglomerates, large digital businesses and a situation where really very large digital companies are likely to make profits in most countries of the world, but income tax or tax in these countries does not pay for how to reform tax rules in this situation. This debate, which began in the OECD on digital taxation, must be said to have ended with a much broader outcome and, in principle, an agreement has been reached in the OECD to amend the rules on taxation of profits of multinational groups. This also concerns the larger digital service providers and also concerns the digital tax. There is currently an agreement or statement at OECD level for groups with an annual turnover of more than EUR 20 billion and currently in the order of 100-130 in the world. As stated, they mainly target GAFAM companies, i.e. Google, Amazon, Facebook, Apple and Microsoft. Estonia's wish has been that the same rulebook, which is uniformly established in all countries, should be applied to the taxation of digital conglomerates, large digital companies. It seems to me that it is beginning to linger, with very many large countries not very prepared to move forward quickly with the implementation of this agreement, but it is certainly our interest that these rules can be fully implemented in a coherent manner. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] This is particularly the case for large companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U52	A further question. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U53	Thank you. I would point out that my question specifically concerned the taxation of profits earned by content developers operating in Estonia, and not so much the taxation of the company that you talked about. If we take the same OnlyFans or some other such portals, even if we look at the Estonian yellow press, there are daily data on the huge profits that are being made. My question is: does the Tax and Customs Board or the Ministry of Finance, the government in general, or is it planning to do so to monitor these founders of content and their profits?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U54	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U55	Thank you, Mr President. Good questioner! Yes, thank you, it has now become clearer the background to your question. This is probably a relatively new phenomenon, not only in Estonia but also elsewhere, compared to a number of other areas of taxation, and the analysis of this must be dealt with. However, there is no concrete initiative at this stage with which we would, for example, be coming before Parliament. And it is not known to me that Parliament's various committees are also coming up with such a specific draft. As has been said, it must be looked at and analysed, but there is currently no such extension of the tax as a draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U56	And now one more question. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U57	Thank you, Mr President. I am truly delighted to see you, Mr. Jüri Ratas, again in this hall for heavy work rattling in the pre-Christmas period. And I sincerely wish you and your family a peaceful and beautiful Christmas.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U58	This joy and desire are mutual.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U59	Thank you. And now a question for the Minister. Dear Minister, Please follow closely the algorithm for the structure of my question and listen carefully. As is known, the price of the producer who made the highest price offer to the customers on the power exchange is the price per hour. My question: does this mean that only this manufacturer will provide energy in this hour? I don't think so. In my understanding, other producers are offering too. And that raises the next question. At what price do these other manufacturers sell this hour's energy? Listen up, I'm getting to the question. At the price you offered or at a higher price? And I would also ask for an explanation of where and who will have the rest of the money and who will have it, because the consumer will always pay a higher price, or tax, and the tax will also generate revenue. So I think my question is in this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U60	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U61	Thank you, good manager. Honourable questioner! I appreciate your flexibility to ask within the context of the issue of digital taxing, which is a completely different issue, but I understand that this issue is topical. And just as, I think, yesterday in the debate in this Chamber, you were given an answer to the same question, and this mechanism was clarified, we will talk about it again. Indeed, in that case, today's stock market rules are such that the last bidder sets this price for everyone. What can be said about all this pricing now is that this current pricing model is such that it really favours a higher and high price. It is likely that this current pricing mechanism would be very seriously reviewed. This proposal has been made or raised by the government, if I am not mistaken now, by both economic ministers, the Minister for Enterprise and the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications. And that is obviously the kind of turn we need to make. It would be reasonable that this analysis should indeed be carried out by an independent representative. Whether this model developed today is most useful is not certain. So a serious look into it, I believe, is going to happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U62	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U63	Let's move on to question eight. It is presented by Kalle Grünthal, a member of the Riigikogu, and corresponds to the role of Minister of State Administration Jaak Aab as Prime Minister. The subject is electricity companies. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U64	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, My question comes from the response of the esteemed Keit Pentus-Rosimine. As we know, we are going to review these things, how the price on the stock market is, etc. But I'm coming to the roots, Mr. Aab. Elering acquired a 2% stake in Nord Pool Spot AS at the time when the electricity market opened and the power exchange started in Estonia. The purchase of Elering's shares was then justified by the fact that it would participate in decisions on the development of the electricity market through the stock exchange. Mr. Ab, can you hear me? Don't ask so much advice. At the beginning of this year, Elering sold its stake to the Norwegian network operator Statnett. The result of this change, now listen carefully, is that instead of making decisions, we only have access to market data. Therefore, the position of the esteemed Keit Pentus-Rosimethus that we are reviewing and doing something cannot clearly work. By the way, the Estonian people learned this jealously kept secret only in December of this year, when Sandor Liive, the former leader of Eesti Energia, spoke on ETV's "First Studio." Consequently, I believe that there is no dispute about the matter; the question of energy is, in any case, a matter of strategic security. And now the question is, who of the members of the government signed up to the sale of this stake?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U65	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U66	Thank you for your question. Very detailed, of course. You could have told me in advance what its contents were. It would be better if our Minister for Energy, or Taavi Aas, answered here, I believe he has also answered these questions. I also heard Taavi Veskimägi explain on television that this 2% was probably acquired by all the network companies that are in the region, in other countries too, and perhaps on an equal level. What the questioner now referred to was whether there was anything to be done with this system ♪ it requires serious analysis, no one has denied it. In fact, you can't say that it depends on someone else's will. If the countries participating in this stock exchange are willing to change this system, then it is possible. Of course, there are different rules and different laws and directives here, and whatever, but if you want to, you can review everything. I do not really want to go into the details, I am not really the Minister for Energy, although in the meantime, in recent days I already feel that way by developing these various measures to mitigate price increases for gas, electricity and district heating, of course, with the help of specialists from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. So, it's probably not the most successful system. However, as far as it is concerned now that it is possible to get out of it quickly and quickly and to create other systems, it is probably not possible to do so so quickly. This must be seriously analysed; these decisions must be taken together. Of course, if the stock exchange price worked reasonably, if the prices were [reasonably], I do not say that thanks to the stock exchange, just there are its inputs: if there is a lot of supply, then the stock exchange price is low, then it worked well and then we did not complain about the stock exchange. And now that there is little supply, the demand has grown very quickly as this crisis emerges, the economy exits relatively quickly, then there is the problem that maybe these prices will go up. But the systemic problem in our region is perhaps also that there is no coordinated policy. It is what these capacities are in this region at all, in this same stock exchange area. As we can see, we depend on one, though, the other, but on the third weather factor occasionally. And let's say that there is probably little controlled capacity, so the demand has clearly exceeded the capacity we have in this region. And it's the biggest mistake that actually happens. Of course, you have to try everything you can to make sure they don't happen again so sharp.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U67	Now, one more question. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U68	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, When I look at you, I remember schooltime, so did the teacher sometimes remark that don't talk during the class, or you won't hear what the teacher says. Now I see again that I ask the question, I call you to order, you squirm gently with your handsome benchmate, and you do not pay attention to the question. Listen to the question once again: who of the members of the government signed up to the sale of their shares?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U69	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U70	Yeah, I know. Thank you for this clarification. I cannot tell you this fact right now, but I am willing to reply in writing as soon as possible, as I know it, separately.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U71	Please, now one further question. Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U72	Good manager! Good Minister of State Administration in the Prime Minister's role! I'm asking a specific question. In January, people start shaking their hands to get EUR 10.500 per month afterwards. Four months ago, what's he gonna be, can get up to 2,000 euros. Do you have any estimates of how much this average sum people could have in January, when they start shaking hands to fill out a statement, they get somewhere in January? I don't know if by the end of January, that's another question when they file somewhere in the first decade of January.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U73	Thank you for your question. I'm sure what I'm saying is that no one has to shake their hand. Once again, I stress that this is not social support. This is support for easing the extraordinary price increase, and no one has to shake their hand for that. It can also be applied electronically, as I explained. Yes, not everyone is able to do that, so you have to go to a social worker or to the appropriate local government department to help you get this application done properly and the person gets the money. The second possibility is that we will not do it, that would certainly be a much worse option. How much exactly does one household get in the middle? Well, if the general numbers are shared over the heating season and the season we're compensating for these prices, maybe we can get it. The calculations have been made on the basis of an increase in prices. We haven't calculated this, but you can, of course, try to do how much the average household can. I mean, it's a lot of bills to support. One has a stock exchange package for electricity, for example, and he has hardly had an increase in the price of electricity, while he uses gas, there has been a very big leap. 80% of this price increase, fixed at the level of spring prices, is eligible for support for all three components of electricity, gas and district heating. And as you know, district heating is very different. Where, for example, wood chips are still sufficient for district heating, there has been virtually no price increase. Where gas is added, the price is higher. It is probably not possible to calculate exactly how much the compensation of an average Estonian household is for this four months. But certainly I think he's supporting right where this bill has increased, every household, and it's up to average, practically, income. Well, that median mean we're discussing right now. One decision we actually made at the beginning, it was somewhere in October, [it was] that if we use this support and the CO2 funds, this limit is EUR 673. Now, looking at the situation in October and November by 673 members of the first household, the next member of the household being half or a third of it, or 0.3, it was clear that much more people needed help. Those who receive up to average income are also quite struggling with certain accounts. That's why we started the discussion to raise the border. This is probably how we decide that about half of households in Estonia will receive support.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U74	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U75	Let us move on to the next question. It is presented by Paul Puustusmaa, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by the Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus. The subject is VAT. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U76	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, Unlike Reuben Kaalep, I am not dealing with this new type of phenomenon, which is digital taxation, but I am talking about VAT, which is quite an old one. The question in itself is very simple: why or how can tax taxation be justified? Let me be clear on the contents. As we know, excise duty is levied on excise goods in Estonia, and according to the Alcohol, Tobacco and Fuel Excise Act, which § 1 (1) of which states what is taxed, we have no doubt that if we charge excise duties, this is a tax, which is confirmed by the tax office's website. Okay. At the same time, Paragraph 1 (1) of the VAT Act states that VAT is subject to VAT on turnover, services, supply of services, and paragraph 2 in turn defines VAT as an added value tax. Got it. What is the justification for adding additional VAT to excise duty? In other words, excise duty is subject to VAT. I would stress that if we pay land tax once a year, we will not have VAT added to the land tax. Income tax is also not subject to VAT. However, while we are looking at electricity bills, the electricity bills are subject to excise duty and, in turn, to VAT. How is it justified that excise duty can be interpreted as a service, as a turnover or that excise duty has applied an added value tax to which VAT must be added?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U77	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U78	Thank you, Mr President. Good questioner! This is now a few hours worth of discussion, probably also, there was a lot of information and that would require detailed clarification. However, the general logic is that excise duty is for goods where we also want to influence consumption. As a rule excise duty, as you mentioned, on alcohol and tobacco, for example, also on fuel excise duty, we generally want to direct people towards less consumption of goods, more sustainable consumption of goods for which excise duty has been applied and introduced. And VAT, as you specifically quoted the law, is consumption taxation. So this is the general philosophy of the two taxes. Again, not only are we different in Estonia, but it is generally a global logic that it acts in this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U79	The question to be specified. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U80	Thank you. I was just asking to identify these calculations here. In response to Heiki Hepner, you said that excise duties in electricity consumption amount to 50 million. Now I'm asking you, did I misunderstand whether this 50 million was the volume of the proposed increase or...? The volume of the rise was this planned? Oh, I get it, thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U81	Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U82	Thank you, good manager. Good questioner! Now, if I tell you by memory, it's 52 million total effects. This would have been the effect of all the excise increases previously planned, not only of electricity, but of all the increases in excise duty, if the excise duty had increased in the spring of next year. It's a predictable number. Well, we would have figured out the final number if it actually worked out, but thank God that decision was such that the planned rise was cancelled. In essence, it can be said that more money was spent on people, was not collected, and that is the effect of the increase, not the effect of the total excise duty or VAT being collected.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U83	Now, one more question. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U84	Thank you. Madam Secretary! Following yesterday's debate on the energy crisis, one representative of your government union clearly said: we are rich, we do not need these subsidies. Indeed, as far as the energy crisis is concerned, the rise in the salaries of ministers is linked to the increase in the cost of living. When inflation occurs, the salaries of ministers and other superiors, members of the Riigikogu, will also increase. Of course, there is no reason and, like the problem, there is nothing to deal with. In fact, the question is [that], I still want to understand what the soup is cooking in that government right now. We have EUR 150 million in the current situation, which the government plans to take as additional VAT on electricity, district heating and gas. We have to take into account that the price increase in energy prices alone means half the price increase planned, the increase in our cost of living, which we are forecasting, perhaps, to make money cheaper. Lowering VAT on electricity, indoor heating, gas would reduce inflation by about.. if we take into account that it would directly leave EUR 225 million in people's pockets, in reality, with a leverage of at least one and a half if not two times the gross domestic product. And this has also been suggested by economic experts. Why is this wholesome step to the government so hard to take? You've cornered the Centre Party. The Centre Party sits like a mouse and looks at what happens to the Estonian people and says that they are not against solutions. Why, then, does the Reform Party not say that, according to economic logic, controlling inflation by these administrative steps by means of a tax reduction in these prices would be the only thing to do? We're not gonna cut people's wages.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U85	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U86	Thank you, Mr President. Good questioner! I think you're expressing your bravado a little bit in the wrong place. The Centre Party and I have dealt quickly and really very seriously with the government and have sought solutions to the situation that has affected all Estonian people. And as I said to your groupmate's question, which sounded, I think, about half an hour ago, everyone is affected, but this effect will certainly be felt differently by people. I really do not think that Urmas Reinsalu needs additional support as such a uniformly distributed support. However, there are a large number of those with lower incomes at the average income or median income and who need this support. As a result of the fact that we do not make such a slim, very thin layer of support for everyone, it is possible to support these people with larger amounts and to provide them with real help. It's a problem point, a problem that we and the Centre Party have been looking for in the government. Indeed, so far, it has been decided to eliminate excise increases, which, I repeat, have an overall effect of more than EUR 50 million. Similarly, a halving of the electricity grid charges, with an effect of EUR 88 million, has been decided and already reflected in the accounts. Tomorrow we will continue the debate, and I am optimistic that tomorrow we will decide that, like gas, grid charges will be halved, just as quickly implemented and already reflected in next month's bill. In addition, direct aid is for people who are currently in a difficult situation and for whom there is certainly a government decision that they will not be left in trouble. I say once again that I do not think it would be wise for Members to disparage it in any way either. There are people who need support now, that support is meant for them. As Mr Aab repeatedly pointed out, this is not social support, but is a relief in electricity prices in the current exceptional circumstances. And it can be paid in the order of magnitude if we raise the allowance to EUR 1052 in a single-member family, EUR 1500 in a two-member family and more than EUR 2600 in a four-member family. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] It will be available to people in the near future. And whoever needs this help is what we offer, and it needs to be used.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U87	Minister, your time! A procedural question. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U88	Thank you. I propose to repeat this round of questions because I did not receive any answers to this question. I didn't ask about any subsidies. I didn't ask for such a British humour-style Mrs. Finance Minister's point that the government was a very good joke! It works very fast. In October, the objectives of the support were published and the people are told that in January [Application to be submitted], in Tallinn on 15 January, dear people, you can submit applications. And it's called speed! I asked you very simply whether it was not the case, President of the Riigikogu, why the Reform Party is stubbornly opposed to a reduction in VAT and prefers to collect 150 million euros from people in addition to the VAT on district heating, electricity and gas, instead of reducing VAT, so that the state, with an additional tax burden, does not increase inflation. Why does the government, in the view of the Minister of Finance, not consider it appropriate to reduce the one small measure that we have today in the European Central Bank system to control inflation? And I didn't get an answer to that. My proposal is to repeat this issue and to give the Minister for Finance the opportunity to respond. This is the most central issue in this complex acute crisis. We must work towards solutions, but this means that the members of the government must also recognise the real realities in which we are located. Right now, we're hearing points. The time for managing the crisis with the points of discussion is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U89	Thank you. I will, however, stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U90	Now it is possible for every member of the Riigikogu to ask questions. Sign up, [we've got about] 40 minutes. I have a very big request that you also let me know who you are asking for the question from. And let's get started. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U91	Thank you. Well, you see, you can immediately see the quickest reaction of the fingers. My question is to the acting Prime Minister, Minister Jaak Aab. When Urmas Reinsalu said earlier that he did not get an answer to his question, I tried to get answers to my questions from both the Minister of Finance and the acting Prime Minister, but I did not get answers to my questions. I couldn't answer my questions. I therefore ask, Jaak, that you answer my question very clearly and specifically: why did the members of the Centre Party Group not support the Centre Party's own initiative to reduce VAT from 20% to 9% on electricity, heat and gas? Did anyone in the government support Taavi Asa in this fight, and did the other ministers of the Central Party support this proposal or not? That's one question. And the second question, which is very important, is that the opinion does not remain as if the ambassadors of the Fatherland or some other members of the Riigikogu are opposed to the payment of these allowances. No, we don't mind. But if there is an alternative that is better and avoids the introduction of a bureaucratic payout mechanism in this form of subsidies, this is a reform of the electricity market, i.e. to enable people, households and small consumers to buy electricity on the off-the-counter market, then why do we not apply what makes it possible to rule out the need to pay support? So two simple questions, I'm asking for an answer. The subject of value added tax - why do you not support the proposal initiated by the President of your party and initiated by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications? And second, why do you not support the draft initiated by the Fatherland, which looks to the future and excludes the extraordinary disbursement of such grants?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U92	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U93	Thank you for your question. I guess I tried to answer, and I'm still answering. There are a number of proposals that have been made in the government and discussed in the cabinet. There has also been a reduction in VAT from 20 to 9%, as this proposal by the Fatherland has sounded here. I also said before about the question and the answer: why did you not propose to allocate the corresponding amount of money during the debate on the state budget? You did it after the state budget was adopted, as far as I know. Let's check it out. [[Noise in the hall. The manager's ringing the bell.]] But okay, that's what we're arguing about, and that doesn't matter. You've made the suggestion, I know. Who and who of the ministers was there to support? This is the kind of interesting building of the Lego blocks you want to do. I say that different ministers have different proposals. After all, they are often the result of what kind of ministry they run. It is also known that the chairman of the Centre Party has come up with this proposal, which the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications has come up with as a proposal for possible relief from price subsidies. And certainly other ministers of the Centre Party have defended this proposal, but decisions can be made by consensus of the government. I think everyone in the room knows that. So, therefore, those proposals, which are supported by consensus within the government, have been implemented or implemented. Those that do not find support cannot, unfortunately, be put into practice. That's the simple answer. Begin to find out who's making the suggestions, well, often at this corona, they say that this camp did so, and the other camp did so. We know for ourselves that the various ministers at the table are making a lot of different proposals. In many respects, this is also due to the need to protect its administration or sector, be it the Minister of Culture, the Minister of Enterprise, etc. [the Administration]. This is exactly the case with all the other debates. I would like to begin by installing who said exactly what he said and what suggestions I said, yes, we have made a lot of these proposals and have considered a wide range of measures. Value added tax. Yes, it is certainly a very good proposal in itself, along with other proposals. However, if you now consider what can be implemented, it is definitely a matter of source. CO2 is what can be applied relatively quickly in terms of source, right? And that's why it's been used to really help those who have the biggest problem with the bill. I have no objection to the reduction of VAT for good reason, but such a decision must first be taken by the government in a consensual manner and then also by at least more than half a majority of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U94	A procedural question. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U95	Mr President of the sitting! What's going on in this Chamber right now is, I think, symptomatic of the government's actions. I specifically asked the Minister for Finance why he or his party in the government would not support a reduction in VAT in order, above all, to contain price increases and inflation. I didn't get an answer to that with a single line. Now People's Representative Helir-Valdor Seeder asked the acting Prime Minister about the position of the electricity market reform, that instead of the subsidies of which the fans are members of the government, the people should be divided into rich and poor according to the logic of the energy class war and start paying the subsidies, instead of carrying out a reform of the electricity market, where private small companies and households would receive the electricity offered by the Estonian ruling energy producer of Nord Pool price region with a fixed price horizon. Why are you afraid, good members of the government, of the real answers? There's a lot of words, but there's less thought, and I don't see any action. I have a request to the President of the sitting to give the acting Prime Minister the opportunity, on behalf of the government, to state the government's position on the reform of the electricity market, which I supported yesterday, I would like to draw attention to the President of the Energy Council of the Estonian Academy of Sciences, Arvi Hamburg, who confirmed that it is in line with European Union law and is immediately applicable. The Competition Authority has also expressed its position.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U96	Thank you. I understand that now these procedural questions and substantive questions are going to cross-cross. We are still on the questions, and I cannot in any way give the floor to Mr Aab in the role of Prime Minister to answer the question in the context of procedural questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U97	But it could.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U98	I think you could, you know, live a lot of things. Peter Ernits, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U99	Good manager! Please call Mr Reinsalu to order. Why does he keep me from asking a question to the honourable Minister of Justice and others? For now, we could talk about content rather than hinder the work of other colleagues.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U100	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U101	Thank you. This is about the Prime Minister's duties to Jaak Aab. According to data from the Agency, doses of corona vaccine have been injected in Estonia between 27 December 2020 and 20 November in the morning 2021. 6017 notifications of possible adverse reactions and inefficiencies have been sent to the Agency from 27 December 2020 to 28 November 2021 in relation to corona vaccines, including 238 reports of at least one serious adverse reaction. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Death, life-threatening reactions in the administration of medicinal products, persistent health problems, reactions and adverse reactions, including disability, and reactions requiring or prolonging hospitalisation for medicinal products with a temporal relationship. Death is set out in 28 communications, 15 of which were submitted by doctors. Four deaths were assessed by the Agency as possibly related to the corona vaccine or cannot be excluded. The first vaccine victim was a rescue worker, the last male over 80 years of age with a family doctor in Põltsamaa who is not included in this statistics. Now, listen up, Mr. Ab. I have a question for you. Do not talk about these statistics, but answer my question. How many more deaths will it take for the government to refrain from testing experimental vaccines on the Estonian people?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U102	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U103	Thank you for your question. We have already talked about this subject here for a long time, both the Minister of Health and Labour and other ministers, and members of the Riigikogu have inherited it. If I wanted to give a simple answer, all the studies, experts, all the world's experience, which is new to us in this situation and in the virus, will prove that the vaccines will at least help to slow down the spread of the virus and will certainly be very effective in helping against serious consequences and deaths. All medicines are at risk of side effects. All vaccines are at risk of side effects. It is often also associated with the state of health of a person or with accompanying diseases. We do not currently have a better way out of this situation than to use the vaccines that are. They have developed yes faster than these conventional and old vaccines, although mRNA has been in studies before, though in a slightly different form. I think it is still the best choice and decision, both as a person and as a society, to vaccinate ourselves, to vaccinate yourself with an effectiveness dose, because this virus mutates, changes, and a firm defense is when we are immunely protected. As regards the damage or notifications of damage to health allegedly caused by the vaccine, there is, unfortunately, no other system at present than to appeal to this pharmaceutical manufacturer. But we, say, in the coming weeks, believe that the Minister of Health and Labour will bring this bill to the government, and from there it will come to the Riigikogu, where it will be possible to apply for vaccine damage from the Estonian state's respective system, and that will then ask pharmaceutical manufacturers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U104	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U105	Good manager! I'll ask the Minister of Justice. I'm not talking about death right now, but this plan, as I understand it, to start killing people with hate speech law or making them a criminal. There are already two ministers, Päivi Räsänen, former Finnish Minister of the Interior, who dared to quote from the Bible that homosexuality is evil and sin, and his Danish colleague, who was sentenced to 60 days in prison because he dared to speak about immigrants. In the meantime, the Reform Party had quietly pushed this hate speech, the hate speech law into a drawer, but after the Brussels signal, I understand that you have taken it out of there. And I'm asking if it's true that the current government and the Justice Department you run is planning to come up with a hate speech with the law. On 19 January, as I know, you will consult with your ministry. When will you come out with it, Minister of Justice?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U106	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U107	Thank you. Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. For me, it's always a misunderstanding that you're talking in a very specific way about some kind of hate speech law. There's no law of hate speech, and it's not in the drawer either. The question is simply that we have a constitution in which it is very clear that [must not be discriminated against] by instigation, speech style [through], acts in which, as we know, the word can be a very painful weapon, the people are discredited by the fact that they belong to one group or another by nationality, sex, religion, and God knows what else. On this basis, it is questionable whether this point of the Constitution has been correctly transposed into our laws. Here, lawyers, law practitioners and practitioners have different ideas. That is why specialists come together on 19 January, looking at whether the provisions in Estonian legislation correspond to what the Constitution requires and requires of us. Once again, some people feel that this is not exactly the case, and some feel that it is enough. Really, that's it. And it is precisely this issue that needs to be addressed. In addition, we can certainly also talk about the fact that the word has been increasingly used in a bad sense and in a bad way in recent years. A person can express his opinion, and he can do so in very different ways. He can be angry sometimes and say bad things. But if a person is deliberately using his word to silence another person, disparage him, reject him, or even show him in a way that he is not worthy of being a member of one society or another, then such a matter must be dealt with. Surely people feel the effect of the word in very different ways. Some are more sensitive, some less sensitive. And this is also where we, as a society, need to understand where the limit is not to be crossed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U108	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U109	Thank you, good manager. I'll ask the Minister of Finance. During the Singing Revolution, we had a saying that if we had to, we'd eat potato peel. In Estonia, due to restrictions, there is one area where people will probably soon have to start eating potato peel, which is a band of Estarate music or pop music that will perform during the evening. They're in serious trouble. And I may see a bigger problem here. If musicians will soon have no money to pay their electricity bills, they will hardly be recording new songs in the studios, which means that our young people will also grow up with popular music in English. Is there any plan to grant or help this music sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U110	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good questioner! With the additional budget, a rather new initiative was born in the field of the Ministry of Culture, which is essentially a hedge fund with the aim of supporting such organisers, certainly also in the music sector, whose events were either cancelled or significantly affected by the spread of the virus or for reasons related to the spread of the virus. If the summer was still like this, well, let's say, like the test period for this measure and probably the initial conditions that were set for this hedge fund were perhaps tougher than they could have been, or such relatively rigid, then, as far as I know, the Ministry of Culture is now also reviewing these conditions. And indeed, since the money allocated by this additional budget is not used at all, precisely because of these relatively harsh conditions, there is an opportunity to review these conditions so that indeed, even now, in the second half of the year, the events that are not available will be supported by this hedge fund. This is certainly once again a case in which each particular case or example must be looked at separately. I am not in the position now to say that it will automatically open up support to everyone or offer this support to everyone, but a greater number of people who have been taken care of, and precisely because of these restrictions, those who have been forced to cancel the events, they should receive more support than that. This change is still planned before the end of the year, so that it is not the case that this measure, which was implemented in the summer, is now under way with the end of the year and the money is simply unused. We'd rather go over the terms.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U112	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U113	Thank you. The question is for the Minister of Finance, Keit Pentus-Rosimilud. First of all, I would like to disprove this brazen lie that you said here, as if opposition parties were somehow disparaging those people who are in trouble because of the high energy cost. On the contrary, all our speeches, all our proposals that we have put forward, are precisely because of the concern that these people are doing well. It seems to me that it is the government that denigrates and humiliates them, making people beg for help, rather than dealing with this crisis and bringing down the cost of energy. And it seems that the government has taken over such socialist methods of collecting as much taxes and money as possible and then shuffling it to people as an alms and making them dependent on subsidies. In fact, the problem is much wider. It is not only in the electricity and gas bills that people get, but in the price of high energy, which hits our economy very hard. It has led to galloping inflation and, on the other hand, hits all our people. We are seeing our companies shut doors today. If the price of high energy continues, we will soon see mass redundancies, unemployment, a wave of bankruptcy, and we will find ourselves in a very serious socio-economic crisis, where we are already today. Why does the government not deal with this issue in a wider sense? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] After all, many examples could be taken from other countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U114	Please, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U115	Thank you, Mr President. Good questioner! Well, here it is. You say that you don't disparage and that the problem is serious, but at the same time you'll tell me two sentences later, you'll describe how people get rattled with alms and so on. Then what is it? It is precisely the creation of an image, as if it were something shameful, to use this support, which is precisely intended to alleviate energy prices in this exceptional situation. It is not something that should be viewed in such a way that someone comes to ask for alms. It's not like that. This is in circumstances where the price of energy has jumped into the ceiling, precisely to support their families directly. Once again, while the situation on the energy market was such that in our government we discussed and decided to apply support, to apply price relief to families with low incomes, it is now clear that this support is needed not only by families with very low incomes, but also by those with medium incomes, with the median. That is why tomorrow, at the government meeting, this issue will hopefully be decided. The preparatory work is currently underway, has been going on for some time, and tomorrow both raising the threshold for this support and, for example, halving network charges for gas consumers, as it is in the case of electricity grid charges, these are issues that the government will discuss tomorrow and consider and which, as I said, I hope will be decided. Indeed, I say once again that the idea of proposing this support, a mitigation measure, has been to provide immediate real support to those who need it. Generally speaking, you also call yourself a right-wing party from time to time, and it has been your principle that those who are in trouble must be supported. This has been the whole point of this development and now also the point of implementation. So, once again, according to the current plans, if it is a one-member household, if the income in this household is less than EUR 1052, this allowance must be applied for and asked for from the municipality. For example, if it is a family of four, with two adults and two small children, then the income limit is EUR 1893. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] If it is a family of four, with two adults and two children over 14 years old, this income is 2630 euros...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U116	Minister, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U117	... below which income support can be obtained.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U118	Henn Fieldace, procedural, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U119	Thank you. I just want to say that once again we are in a situation where the Minister does not answer the question. I specifically asked why the government is doing nothing to bring down energy prices to help our business and prevent us from falling into an even greater socio-economic crisis. Absolutely no answer. I ask the President of the Riigikogu to call the Minister to order.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U120	Thank you. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U121	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have a question for the Minister of Finance. British left-wing politician Richard Crossman has once said that political thinking consists first of making a final decision and then of finding arguments for them. It sounds like it's happening here today. For some reason, in order to keep prices down, in order to keep inflation under control, the government has chosen a strange path. He has chosen a treatment route through this expensive procedure, for which there are still many questions. We have received a number of signals from local authorities saying that there is no readiness for this measure, which has been chosen. Half the population beg at the local government's door. It is not known exactly how officials do it, whether it has been tested how people do it themselves, how people are going to electronically submit their statements, what older people do, how they do it. This is a very expensive measure. The opposition parties are not revolutionary parties. They have offered a great deal of good measures; they have also sounded in this Chamber today. Has the government really not been able to consider them, or is it still considering the good proposals concerning the prevention of the disease, rather than the treatment of issues arising from decisions and which could be dealt with...? Indeed, we are not talking about withdrawal, but we are saying suspension in even the CO2 system, even the suspension of the renewable energy payment system, even the suspension of the stock exchange system. Have these decisions ever been considered?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U122	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U123	Thank you, Mr President. Good questioner! I'll start, if you'll excuse me, with the answer of the previous questioner. Since there is a new format in which members of the Riigikogu can essentially get two questions in procedural form and I cannot answer it, I just have to use it now. As regards energy pricing and decision-making, which would also have an impact on companies, a halving of electricity grid charges is precisely such a measure. And that is the thing we decided in a way that already in October, this halving was actually reflected and the network charges were already halved. As has been said, the reduction in network charges for electricity will have an effect of EUR 88 million. Since the price of gas has also made a very steep leap, we are now discussing a reduction in the gas network charge in the same way, essentially on the same basis as in the case of electricity. In the case of gas network charges in particular, this impact is also greater both for production and for companies which, in the same way, understandably today, would simply be in a difficult situation and are in a difficult situation. So this is the same thing that affects bills very quickly. I believe that the government will be able to make a decision on this tomorrow. Eliminating the causes in addition to mitigating the consequences is an issue that we also exchanged views with your colleagues in the first hour of Question Time. Well, that's the thing that needs to be dealt with. And we also have to deal with the view that more production capacity is needed. There is a need for more production capacity, more investment support for households as well as more, support for the installation of solar panels in households as well as really support for smarter management of consumption, as there is a huge potential for savings that would also directly lower bills and reduce costs. Departure from the stock market is a proposal that would result in prices higher than they otherwise are in the right short term. If we were to act on a very small market in this case, it would in any case not be beneficial to consumers but a harmful decision in the long term. But yes, the proposals that have been made in this Chamber today are, in general, the time to discuss and consider all of them. This does not mean that they can be taken into account automatically. Those that have immediate, real and the greatest impact at present in the short term can and must be taken into account. In addition to the long-term effects of looking beyond.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U124	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U125	Thank you. Madam Secretary of Finance seems to be in a good mood. Making fun of the fact that if households and small consumers, small businesses, had the option of choosing an off-exchange price package coordinated by the Competition Authority, it would actually be more expensive for them. The fact is that, as a result, household customers alone with a much predictable price level would gain EUR 290 million in consumption of 2 TW next year if the full reform of the Fatherland electricity market was carried out. And the full elements of this reform are: firstly, that the incumbent electricity producer has an obligation to offer an off-exchange package, secondly, to introduce electricity as a universal service, and thirdly, to compensate for the CO2 emission trading or quota money to users of that package as a public allocation. The question is that this reform is in line with European Union law, it is in the interests of consumers, it helps consumers to save money, it makes consumer behaviour predictable and it also makes it possible to reduce inflation pressures. Everybody wins. And everyone has more freedom. Those producers who want to take part in the stock exchange, please! Also to participate in the stock exchange with the rest of the energy of Eesti Energia, please! There's nothing weird about it. But the question is that in an unpredictable price crisis, we should find practical solutions. And now my question is to the government. What are these fundamental reasons, in addition to this declarative statement that, by repeating cheaper electricity to consumers, is more expensive as such a paradox, why does the government not want to carry out a reform of the electricity market?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U126	Thank you. I have a question: who is the question? [[Urmas Reinsalu responds locally.]] A microphone for Mr. Reinsalu, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U127	I asked the Minister for Public Administration about the reform of the electricity market, and I did not get an answer. Who in the government dares to give a clear answer, why does the government not want to implement the reform of the electricity market? Who's gonna take that step and say it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U128	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U129	Thank you. I'll take the courage to answer. I understand that this interesting proposal, which has been tabled here, certainly needs to be looked at. I'm not going to say that it's bad or that it's good. The thing about this stock market is that you have to look at it seriously, which we have admitted here today. If the good questioner, the honourable questioner asks what we've been up to, we've looked at the different angles of what we have these powers, why this situation has arisen. I'm not gonna go over it again. These are much wider reasons than just our own production capacities or our preparations. One major reason is still the rapid exit from the crisis in the economy where this demand arose. But the fact that we need to make our systems more secure so that they do not hit the consumer or the consumer of the energy carrier in this way, I think that all countries are thinking about it, and that is what we have to think about. We need to think about this with the region where we belong on this stock market, but more broadly in the European Union and in the world. So this proposal will definitely be analysed. I know that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure has basically brought such a complex view; he has put together this whole complex view of how this problem has arisen. And now we also need to review exactly how they affect each other, and certainly in the near future, the cabinet will discuss it. I can certainly promise the honourable questioner that, in the near future, we will certainly consider the aspects that the Fatherland has highlighted as possible solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U130	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U131	Thank you, Mr President. Good acting Prime Minister! We have made an inquiry to the Minister for the Environment regarding support for the abandonment of furnace heating. Do you know if there is a bigger directive on the European Union behind this? Because, now, by examining the matter a little bit, it turns out that in the Netherlands, Germany, in several countries oven heating is banned and is already fined for it. Are you familiar with exactly what's going on with the oven heater? Will support be paid initially in Estonia and fines will come in the future, or what exactly will happen to this matter, good Mr. Jaak Aab?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U132	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U133	Thank you for your question. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, that I can talk about this. I've been asked about firewood, too. As for the fact that we're about to be banned, I don't think we have it yet. It has been said that this, too, is in a sense a fossil source, a stove or a furnace, or what it is. But I think that in concentrations like those in Estonia, this is not a big problem. Now, I have been asked why firewood cannot, for example, be compensated for the same measures that we are compensating for from CO2. Yes, there must be a choice, there is electricity, gas and district heating. I've been talking to the local governments. In fact, the majority of municipalities also provide exceptional subsidies for such exceptional price increases. If indeed, let's say, a single-living pensioner or a family of pensioners, or a family of many children, lives in a wood-fired house, then there is also this price increase. And such extraordinary situations can best be resolved by the municipality, who knows the situation of this family and can also help more precisely. The CO2 measure defines what we can do.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U134	A procedural question. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U135	I am now inconsistent because I specifically and intentionally asked what the government's position on the reform of the electricity market was and, indeed, Mrs Finance Minister, by referring to her answers earlier, said that it was unreasonable to leave the stock exchange because it would lead to an increase in the price or an increase in the price of electricity for those who have left the stock market. Mr Aab said, on behalf of the government, that all of this could be discussed, but in reality I did not get a clear answer. And my question is to the President of the sitting: would the President be able to formulate Parliament's verbatim in the interests of the verbatim report, because the most important issue at the moment is not in the energy crisis, what is the position of the incumbent government in power on the reform of the electricity market? I understand clearly, and with all due respect to the answers of Mr Aab and Mrs Abi, I did not get a clear answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U136	Thank you. The questioners will ask, the respondents will answer, next time it will be an opportunity for us... I wanted to say next week, unfortunately not, but next year, when the Riigikogu will meet again. I want to say thank you to all the members of the government for their answers. Thank you to all members of the Riigikogu for their questions. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U137	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We can start the session of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday on the 11th working week. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. We have a whole series of these wishes. Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U138	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! "What's going on?" is such a nice question, which the Estonian people ask from time to time. Members of the Isamaa Group want to know what is going on in the Ministry of Education and Research in connection with the move in posts. It seems to us that there will be a sneaking move from Tartu to Tallinn, and we will present an inquiry to the esteemed Mrs. Liina Kersna. We will ask him some questions about whether there is anything to be done in order to slow down the process of moving the Ministry of Education and Research to Tallinn. And if that's the plan, we're asking you to present it. We want to know what's going on with the Ministry of Education and Science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U139	Next, Üllar Saaremäe. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U140	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! I would like to hand over the draft amendment to the law, which concerns exactly the same subject as the previous speaker spoke about. In particular, the Pro Patria Group passes the draft Act amending the Government Act and it concerns § 45. The purpose of our draft is to lay down the seats of the ministries, after which only parliamentary debate and amendment of the law can change the place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U141	Please, Mikhail Lotman!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U142	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Honourable Riigikogu! I will hand over the Riigikogu statement to the project aimed at supporting the territorial integrity of Ukraine. You'd think I'd break in, or rather we'd break in here is signed by members of different political groups from the open door, because who then doesn't support the territorial integrity of Ukraine. It turns out, however, that quite a few do not support it. And it's very sad. We have heard in recent times from the high representatives of different countries that the Ukrainians must also seek some sort of compromise. It's kind of like when we see some thug rapes a girl on the street, we think come on, that girl should make some kind of concessions. Here is a perfectly clear unambiguous situation: Ukrainian troops do not occupy Russian territory, Ukraine has not annexed any part of Russia, Ukraine does not share Ukrainian passports with Russian citizens. It's like there's no question. Nevertheless, it is. And that's what we have in the Riigikogu. I was absolutely certain that such a statement would be completely neutral in defending Ukraine's territorial whole, that if Ukraine wanted to join any international organisation, no third party would have veto rights, and that decisions concerning Ukraine's sovereignty could not be discussed behind Ukraine's back. Unfortunately, I see that we have different views in the Riigikogu. And I understand why the Centre Party doesn't want to sign here. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] No extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U143	I can't.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U144	You can ask. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U145	You can ask, but I can't give you time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U146	But I am very sorry that neither are the representatives of the Reform Party. It has been suggested that we will resolve this in the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, According to the Constitution, we are a parliamentary state, but not a commissional one. Such a question is Parliament's authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U147	Yeah, I'm sure you can discuss it in the hall, so there's more time. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U148	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, We have now heard political statements here on energy prices over the last few weeks, asked questions in Question Time, asked questions, even as an important national issue, we have discussed the price of electricity, but there is a growing feeling that there is no coalition to understand the one thing that should be done, nor has there actually been any answers to opposition proposals. On behalf of eight Social Democrats, I'm going to discuss an inquiry with the Prime Minister to get an idea of what this government's policy is. We have heard from the public that electricity is a stock exchange, price is a result of demand-supply, and people are getting involved in both low and high electricity prices. But is it the responsibility of every person and company to mitigate the risk of high energy prices? In that case, it should be communicated to all people that it is your own responsibility, select a package and deal with risk mitigation. However, in the case of systemic problems such as the slow build-up of renewable energy capacities, the impact of geopolitical decisions on the supply and price of natural gas, the number of transnational connections, the responsibility can still be borne by each company and person? Also, to what extent is electricity consumption in Estonia avoidable and replaceable so that it can be purely regulated? Plus, this long-term plan. If the government really has a plan to implement the grassroots, then the support of society as a whole is needed. This change is so great that we must all contribute to achieving it. However, in a situation where an ambitious commitment is made by the state, but the damage and burden that people believe will be borne by them, it is not possible to achieve such a transformation in society. What is this chance of finding a sustainable solution? We would like an answer to that. Thank you very much. We look forward to the Prime Minister before the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U149	Aadu Black has developed a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U150	I wanted to ask if I could repeat it because I couldn't hear it at all. That's how nice it was, but it still couldn't reach.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U151	For my part, I ask that there be less noise in the hall, and if the next person comes to the remote control, they can be diverted more microphones together. Indeed, in the meantime, we have a poor hearing in the Chamber. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U152	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Good fellows! On behalf of eight Social Democrats, I'm going to give the Minister of the Interior, Kristian Jaan, an inquiry. This is about cutting the working hours of the service halls of the Police and Border Guard Board. If, in essence, this proposal came to the effect that service halls would only work three days a week in eleven cities, no three cities had already made this change this year, but in eight cities it will come next year, then people's sense of justice was damaged and worried: people feel that the state is going beyond them. At the beginning, I say that in my home town of Viljandi, the people who work in the service halls of the Police and Border Guard Board are doing their job excellently. Just a word of praise. But the problem is that it is not possible to register digitally for this year, for example, when five days are accepted. The times are full. What will happen next year? And there is also concern for people because it seems that this decision has been made-considered, not intended-made. Internet access is not available everywhere, nor is the skills and technical equipment of older people in order to do all this. It all raises a lot of questions, we've been asking four of them here. If any document requests are accepted and fingerprints and photographs can be taken and given, then it is actually quite strange that these materials or documents cannot be retrieved. It is precisely because of people's concerns that we are asking these questions and we are hoping for a quick answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U153	In this way, I have adopted one draft on behalf of the Riigikogu's board, three enquiries and one statement, about which I am told that the statement is also a draft. The Management Board then decides on their further processing in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Now we're conducting a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U154	78 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U155	We did not go on the agenda yesterday, and this item came over today. Today's first item is the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Appointing the Chancellor of Justice of Ülle Madise" submitted by the President of the Republic of Estonia, Alar Karise. Since we do not do such procedures very often, I will first introduce you to the procedure. First of all, the representative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will be present for up to 20 minutes, followed by the presentation of the candidate of the Chancellor of Justice for up to five minutes, then the members of the Riigikogu will be able to ask questions to each of the rapporteurs a single oral question can be asked, and only the representatives of the political groups can speak during the negotiations. Once all this is done, there will be a final vote and the final vote will be secret. Due to § 117 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, no amendments to this draft can be tabled. I now ask the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to come here. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U156	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, Chancellor! § 140 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia states: "The Chancellor of Justice is appointed by the Riigikogu on a proposal from the President of the Republic for seven years. " Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise's first term of office will end on 30 March 2022. In accordance with § 140 of the Constitution, the President of the Republic also submitted on 16 November a draft decision entitled "Appointing the Chancellor of Justice of the Republic of Madise'. As I also have the authority to act on behalf of the President of the Republic, I will still read a few important points in this explanatory memorandum ♪ it is not very long for the members of the Riigikogu to be informed of what the President of the Republic has thought when presenting this draft decision. I quote: "I would like to propose that Ülle Madise be appointed Chancellor of Justice. Ülle Madise, who has served the office of Chancellor of Justice with dignity for the past seven years, is a lawyer with a strong academic background and long experience in public administration. It has dealt with issues relating to constitutional oversight and the protection of fundamental rights and has consistently pointed out the need to assess the proportionality of the restriction of rights. He has stood for the use of state power to be in accordance with the Constitution even during the crisis. Ülle Madise has shown himself to be a thinker and reformer of Estonian public law. He has participated in all (I am not quite convinced of that. (T.K.) In preparing the executive publications of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, as editor-in-chief for the latest publications. Madise has been a member of the Board of the European Region of the International Ombudsman Institute (IOI), currently a member of the IOI's world-level board. Given Ülle Madise's professional experience, knowledge and personal qualities, I think he is a suitable candidate for the office of Chancellor of Justice. Ülle Madise has a valid access permit for access to a completely secret level of state secret. " Signed by President Alar Karis on 16 November 2021. The Board of the Riigikogu sent this draft to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for preparation. And the Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed the draft decision at its meeting on 7 December 2021. In addition to the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the President of the Republic's Legal Adviser Hent-Raul Kalmo and the Chancellor of Justice's candidate Ülle Madise were invited. Hent-Raul Kalmo first introduced these arguments and circumstances, which led the President to find Ülle Madise perfectly appropriate to be presented for a new term of office. Since I have already read the explanatory memorandum to the draft decision of the President of the Republic, I am not going to repeat here what the representative of the Office of the President expressed in the committee session. To a large extent, it coincides with what I read above. Ülle Madise then presented a very thorough presentation. I am not going to read it to you in full here either, because I think Ülle Madise will do it better than I do. Although I must admit that this is one thing that we should discuss together, that the current home and operating procedures allow the Chancellor of Justice's candidate to report for up to five minutes, but this is, in my view, a completely incomprehensible and unacceptablely short time. This can, of course, be alleviated by asking a question, but still. It is a constitutional institution, but the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act says that a presentation of up to five minutes is allowed. So I think if we ever go back to home and work, we could discuss it. However, perhaps I stress two moments, which, I think, to this hall is certainly very important, at least in my opinion, and I believe that the hall also agrees with that. At the committee meeting, Ülle Madise stressed that she would try to continue on the same principles as in the past, perhaps strictly within the oath of office, and strictly avoiding world-view and political positions, because this is the work of the Riigikogu and the Government of the Republic, not the work of the Chancellor of Justice. And the other one, at least one of my favorite quotes that Ülle Madise has repeatedly said: one of his working principles is that one must be resolved, not dealt with. I think that many public authorities, municipalities and perhaps members of the Riigikogu could learn a lesson from this. Now Kalle Grünthal was once again active in the round of questions. He started out very positively, extolledly. In fact, Kalle Grünthal said that he was very respectful of the current activities and principles of the current Chancellor of Justice. However, Kalle Grünthal pointed out that his further questions concerned Order 305 of the Government of the Republic, which imposed the obligation to verify the COVID certificate and made it possible for undertakings to do so. Kalle Grünthal found that those who control the COVID certificate did not really have the authority to verify it. In addition, the Chancellor of Justice stressed that indeed, he too has repeatedly pointed out that a general arrangement does not really fit to impose such restrictions. Ülle Madise has repeatedly expressed this to both the Riigikogu and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. He also referred to the Chairman of the Administrative Chamber of the Supreme Court, Ivo Pilving, who has also stated that the order of the Government of the Republic in question is a legislative act and must be established by law or by decree of the Minister of the Government of the Republic established on the basis of a sufficiently precise mandate given by law. So this debate and the argument are up. Ülle Madise added at the meeting of the Commission that the Government of the Republic is in the process of initiating a draft order ordering these procedures and can make amendments to the law according to which, according to a specific mandate, the Government of the Republic has the right, for example, to issue a regulation imposing such restrictions. At the moment, this has been done through a general arrangement. Finally, the Commission took procedural decisions. Firstly, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and the final vote on 14 December 2021, to date, has become 15 December. This procedural decision was in favour of 4: Toomas Kivimägi, Tõnis Mölder, Marko Torm, Mart Võrklaev; against 1: Kalle Grünthal, impartial 0. Second, to appoint Toomas Kivimägi, Chairman of the Constitutional Commission (this decision was consensual) and thirdly, to propose that Ülle Madis, acting in accordance with § 117 (3) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, present a presentation of up to five minutes before the assembly, by 4: Toomas Kivimägi, Tõnis Mölder, Marko Torm, Mart Võrklaev, against 1: Kalle Grünthal, impartial 0. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U157	Thank you. Now the questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U158	Good manager! Good waitress! The Chancellor of Justice's candidate can speak in this Chamber for five minutes. Did he get five minutes on the committee? Or how many minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U159	Thank you, dear questioner. There is no such restriction in the Commission, so in the Commission we could have talked for hours on this subject. But I think the Chancellor of Justice's report was also there for about five to ten minutes, although the time was somewhat more. But once again, I personally believe that, in the case of such an important constitutional institution, it is not proportionate to allow your views to be presented for just five minutes. I think that, if we ever come to changes in the rules of procedure and home, this is one of the places that should be reviewed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U160	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U161	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! It is known to me, and other people have also told me that, in fact, Kalle Grünthal asked more than one question, quite a few more and on a very important subject. I don't know, I think these data should be true. Why didn't you reflect these questions that I asked you when you presented the [Commission] agenda?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U162	Thank you, dear colleague. It is true that Kalle Grünthal, if I am not mistaken, asked three questions in this committee sitting. I'll tell you again, you were very active there. But I think it has been the custom that we do not read the minutes from the beginning to the end when we are doing the Commission's report here. All members of the Riigikogu have access to the minutes of the committee [independently]. So we're still trying to rationally estimate time. Indeed, there is only one question you can ask in the hall. I think your question and Ülle Madise's answer in this Chamber are much more specific and equally interpretable than the fact that I'm going to talk about what's in the protocol. Therefore, I did not consider it necessary to read these other questions and answers here. Indeed, this protocol is three or four pages long. I think that if I read it all out, it might not be the most rational use of the working time of members of the Riigikogu. Once again, however, the questions were entirely pertinent, and there is no argument at all. And, indeed, I also referred to the fact that the Chancellor of Justice admits, in my opinion, that the creation of such laws and general restrictions by the general organisation of the government is not, in fact, the most appropriate way. In that sense, I also gave you this hint that your question was appropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U163	Thank you. I don't see any more questions. Then we'll go to the next waitress and call Ülle Madise, the candidate for the Chancellor of Justice. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U164	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! Thank you very much to the President of the Republic for this trust. I sincerely thank the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu and the political groups for the meaningful discussions we have had. And thank you, Mr Kivimägi, for a very nice presentation and good words. The Office of the Chancellor of Justice employs truly committed and competent people. It's been an honor working with them. I don't think anyone in this world is doing anything alone, and in the life of a country, no institution, including the Chancellor of Justice, can do anything important. Something changes when everyone does their part. That is why I would like to thank the members of the Riigikogu, both current and previous governments, officials and people, for all those with whom I believe we have been able to improve Estonia together! It is true that Estonia will probably never be finished, so good that it cannot get any better. Therefore, we must admit that this work is endless. Every day, the Chancellor of Justice brings a wide range of different concerns and problems. Very rarely does there be reports of complacency. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! If you think that I could continue to serve as Chancellor of Justice, I will really talk briefly once again about the principles to which Mr Kivimägi referred. Of course, I would continue to look for ways to arrive at the same number of hours of work more quickly at solutions where necessary, with a fresh view and always and always looking for the best. I would certainly ask the authorities to remain true to the principles that have justified themselves so far. There's four of them. Indeed, we need to be resolved, not simply processed. If it is possible to help, we always help, using the shortest rightful and, I stress, kind way. By solving problems, we are trying to reduce the number of conflicts in society, not to increase it, and we are trying to achieve more clarity, perhaps to create clarity, not to create confusion. By the way, when speaking about rights and obligations, it is possible to express themselves in beautiful clear Estonian language. It's our duty according to the constitution. If there is reason to ask the Supreme Court to continue to check the constitutionality of any dispute, it must also be done calmly, it is not a conflict, there are no winners or losers, there are always and only winners in constitutional supervision. However, if we cannot help a person with his or her concerns, the norm is constitutional and he or she has also been treated with dignity, then it is our job to try to reconcile a person with the country. World-view questions, of course, will be decided mainly in elections. And the basic method of law, or logical argumentation, is beautifully limited in matters of justice. The role of the Chancellor of Justice himself is clear. It is not appropriate to compete for popularity and, for any compelling reason, to renounce oaths of office. The Chancellor of Justice cannot and must not take the place of representatives of the people or of the courts. Only in this way can the rule of law be maintained, which is indeed the guarantee of all fundamental rights and obligations. The Constitution and the rule of law set the framework for power. Always. And these frameworks are not changed by the power of the Riigikogu or by the composition of the government. All voters and their representatives deserve the same respect. I understand very clearly and now, on the basis of immediate experience, that the Chancellor of Justice is also responsible for Estonia's welfare within the limits of his role. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U165	Thank you very much. Now the questions. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U166	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Ülle Madise, the candidate for the Chancellor of Justice! I am sure you will be voted on today, and I will also support it in every way. But my question once again concerns the problem that the victims of property reform have not, to this day, been corrected. In fact, a very dignified committee of scientists and experts who were brought to life by the government a few years ago, working long and hard, finally came to the conclusion that the ownership reform was a way of hurting tenants. The Commission found that the state has not complied with the law, that some people have been subjected to new injustices at the expense of others, and that the state must certainly make amends. It's black in white. What are you going to do now to move forward on this issue and eliminate this contradiction with the constitution that has been in existence for years?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U167	Thank you very much. Thank you also for the consistency with which you have stood for the rights of the so-called forced tenants. As I did six years ago or a little more when I was standing here, unfortunately, I cannot reverse the wheel of history. There is no way to make amends to the end of the occupation and the victims and damage caused by it. Unfortunately. But I understand very well the concern that those people who had adjusted their homes had kept, but then they lost it in the reform. I understand that, including my family and acquaintances. The same is true of cases where the person who built the house before the occupation was deported. And the informant himself started living in one of the apartments. That is why I say that I understand the extreme complexity of this problem and the very pain that it is likely to cause in almost all Estonian families still. Are these standards against the Constitution? Unfortunately, the courts have not yet reached that position. Is it possible for the state, if it wishes, to foresee any kind of subsidies or relief for those who still feel that they have suffered harm? Yeah, the country's got a hand to hand. However, it is precisely this world-view and political decision that I have spoken about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U168	I would point out that one question can be asked to each of the rapporteurs. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U169	Thank you, Mr President. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! As we know, when the Government of the Republic takes office, every member entering the government takes an oath. The oath is known to be defined by the wording of a vow made in the presence of witnesses. I would like to know what legal mechanisms or regulation should be, so that the oath actually has the meaning that is given. Perhaps I shall reject all parliamentary possibilities and tie the matter to the word of the oath. Should there be some kind of regulation in the Penal Code that if a person violates an oath given as a member of the government, there would be some legal responsibility?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U170	Thank you very much. This is now a question of the function of penal law and whether penal law can be assigned tasks that it may not be able to perform. I'm afraid the handcuffs do not replace conscience, shame and honor.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U171	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U172	Thank you very much, Mr President. Your Honor, Chancellor! First of all, I would like to thank you for your dedicated work over the last seven years and for the explicit views and problems that have also helped us in our work. But my question concerns the next period. During the last two years, many questions were raised on your desk regarding corona, restrictions and obligations. Do you see that we have a new crisis about to unwind? Indeed, a very dynamic energy market. Questions about the availability of energy in terms of price also reach your desktop.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U173	Thank you very much. Thank you for your good words. Indeed, as I said, unfortunately, the country's crisis and problem-solving work will not stop. In our house's view, too, this so-called energy crisis has already exploded. Those who feel that the unexpectedly high electricity price will undermine their ability to manage their household or to engage in their own business. So, indeed, all the concerns that exist in Estonia also seem to us to be clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U174	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U175	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Chancellor Ülle Madise! I, too, thank you for your clear word. From behind this word, sobriety has always been reflected in this sense, especially in the context of legislation and everyday life. My question also comes from energy science. I'm taking your point to solve, not to process. My question is that the state has given the local government an additional task: to start processing statements to support people in this energy crisis. Do you think this is a proportionate and justified approach? Because, in fact, there are other possible alternatives to the fact that we are precisely going to process statements and it is as if to support people. Is that a fair approach in your sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U176	Thank you very much. I followed with interest and attention yesterday's debate on the crucial issue of state life in this Chamber and, of course, I have also followed these discussions at the sessions of the Government of the Republic in the area of official duties. A final assessment of whether the method chosen to support people is constitutional or not can be made when this method has been written in the form of a standard together with its impact analyses and implementing provisions. Unfortunately, in the past, it is very difficult to say something that creates clarity, not confusion.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U177	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U178	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for your work so far and for going deep into all the problems. My question concerns § 29 of the Constitution, which guarantees all employees the right to belong to employee associations and guarantees the right to defend their interests by all means which are not prohibited by law, and also lays down the right to strike. When we look at the reality of Estonia, many working people are excluded from these rights. On the one hand, officials who are not allowed to negotiate collective agreements, not even the right of representation. We have rescuers whose right to strike is very limited and there is no alternative arbitration mechanism that is usually created in countries to ensure that workers' rights are protected. Moreover, people do not have the right to stand up for their work-related rights, such as better pension reform or the same changes in the right to strike. How do you assess our collective agreements, collective labour disputes and similar labour law in the light of this section of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U179	Thank you very much. Once again, regardless of whether or not the Riigikogu decides to support my candidacy today, hopefully a few months' term of office will still be available, I will take this issue into account. At this point in time, I cannot answer whether these regulations are in accordance with the Estonian Constitution and the International Labour Organisation's acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U180	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U181	Good manager! Good waitress! What do you think are the main points of gravity in the next seven years that you'll be exposed to when you're re-elected? For example, will this matter of moving towards a European federal state come to the agenda? And how much of this so-called big green turn theme is gonna work for you?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U182	Thank you very much. That's a good question. That's what's on our desk all the time. Yesterday, my colleagues and I discussed the same thing that you are discussing this week in the Riigikogu Chamber, the amendment of the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism and its effects on Estonia. So we are constantly following this, precisely in view of the outlines set out in the Constitution, which the Supreme Court has specified in its judgment. I'm sure we'll keep an eye on this topic all the time. We also have advisers who will take part in these discussions with officials from the Ministry where the information is moving and where the European Union's draft legislation is being shared. Our people will be there too. As I was saying, every day the Chancellor of Justice takes the job. I dare not compare myself to a profession as powerful as a medical profession, but in some way this comparison is appropriate, in its small way. Basically, patients with their concerns reach us every day, and we need to see what we can do. But as much as it is possible to do using the roles that the Riigikogu has placed on the shoulders of the Chancellor of Justice and in the course of what is termed 'promotion', I would certainly like to continue with everything concerning the dignity of the end of life, the situation in nursing homes. This has gone somewhat better in cooperation with you, but it is far from decency that I look gratefully at Mrs Helmen Hunt and your many other colleagues. Unfortunately, general issues of human dignity continue. The situation of people who have to be in detention or in psychiatric hospital is actually less than it was before, but there are some. For example, in military service. So the problems of ensuring human dignity will certainly remain on our agenda. Children's well-being in school. This is one topic where we are trying to achieve better results, here not as far as we would have liked. We will continue to look into whether local authorities are providing adequate and dignified assistance to those in need, in accordance with the Social Welfare Act. The work of the 21st century, there are many unresolved problems here too. In particular, how to ensure that those people who have worked but at different workplaces, perhaps in Estonia and then outside of time, have paid taxes correctly, but then somehow got caught between the cogs, so at the moment when they need compensation, such as parental benefit, unemployment benefit, or they have pension problems, they are in an unfair position at the same time. There seems to be a lot of work to be done here, too. I know there are also good officials who have developed these plans at the Ministry of Social Affairs. Finally, as a pretty new subject, which was also mentioned in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and in some political groups, we have a new type of complaint: people are asking how I can get out of the e-state. And it is not asked in tantrums or resentful protests, but because Estonia has sometimes failed to defend the authority of its e-state. The fact that 300,000 people's facial images, names were stolen once. The fact that there have been significant failures in information systems. The fact that people have been put in a situation where it is only possible to communicate electronically with their country or local government, there are no other ways, but this possibility has been made so difficult that a normal hardworking person cannot cope. He does not think, for example, that if you do not have anything to write in the box, you should not leave it blank or tick it, but you should set a point. Otherwise, it'll fail. But someone who says it is, you can't get out of work. So it seems that here we have the right multifaceted task. On the one hand, help must be given to those who are in trouble. There are also entrepreneurs, very good entrepreneurs, for example, who want to upload some projects, but since there has been no warning about the quality of the Internet connection, nor will there be an answer, which is the cause of the error, for example, that has been left out of some competitions and has not been ordered. There we've been able to help many times, but it's probably the one half we have to deal with to get these people out of trouble. The other side is that we need to figure out how to contribute, within the framework of the principle of good administration, to the revision of the information systems that we have, the solutions that we have. What remains is what is really needed, it is developed according to order and preferably in such a way that a normal person benefits from it and has a pleasant emotion, not the other way around. Because, after all, we also have a lot of things in our e-governance that are very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U183	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U184	Thank you, good manager. Your Honor, Chancellor! I, too, thank you, and I must say that if all the people of Estonia were to work so purposefully, with a great deal of commitment and understanding, we would have a much better country. But I'm asking about the reflection of the crisis. In fact, for the last 30 years, we have had people who, either because of their age or because of their special needs, cannot get away from their homes. In the context of the health crisis, we were forced to discuss how the country could force people home or restrict movement. There are probably more parallels like this. The concerns that we have had for decades have now either had to be discussed, or at least they have somehow emerged in the face of the crisis. Can you point out some of the things we've been able to argue over the last year and a half? Is there anything in which greater clarity has come, or is there an agreement that has been made? Has there been anything good in the last year and a half?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U185	Thank you very much for the good questions and the good words! Of course it's been good. I am very pleased that young people will now be able to see a psychiatrist if necessary, hoping that there are enough psychiatrists and that they can get help from there. During the crisis, many people have emerged with whom they are best suited to scout. I have also advised everyone to look around, even in your work group. It is at a time of crisis that it turns out who is really able to drive, who is actually good at stress, and unfortunately also those who are not. At least all drivers must take this into account. In my opinion, there has also been a great deal of good and willingness to help others, in the first wave of our Korona, to continue paying for a service or to support a person even when it was actually closed or too dangerous because of the risk of infection. Still good.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U186	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U187	Thank you, Mr President. Your Honor, Chancellor! Among your four principles, you have highlighted one such thing as reducing the number of conflicts. But as many as there are different interests, there can also be conflicts. My question is this: what would be your human and legal recommendation to actually reduce them, more broadly than simply solving the problems as Chancellor?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U188	Thank you. In my opinion, the key here is the ability to remain peacefully divided. If people can peacefully disagree, there is no need to humiliate a person who thinks otherwise and his dignity. If you do not humiliate another person, then at least generally there will be no longer a conflict.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U189	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U190	Thank you, good waitress, for the answers that have sounded here! But I have a much more principled question concerning the discussions in our society. Growing bigger and bigger, it seems, the discussion will also go on how far we can go in our dealings with the European Union. As we know, the Republic of Estonia and the European Union are still two different institutions. And while we constantly surrender our rights, on controversial terms from time to time, they are still different. Where does the limit go, how many of the crazy things that come from there, we can accept, we can afford, it's kind of a topic that's pretty hot in society. Now the question. It also gives some support to my good colleague Grünthal's question of taking an oath. As we know, the oath is one very important thing that we have defined not only in the Government of the Republic Act, § 6, but it is also in the Public Service Act § 27, which says that the oath is given before the Republic of Estonia and before the conscience. About the conscience, you said it couldn't be chained up. But what is the responsibility to the Republic?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U191	If this is not defined in the Penal Code, if this responsibility does not come from the State Liability Act, then it is likely to recede to conscience there too. In Estonia, if anyone happens to ask me about it between especially young people and students have asked about it, then I would still suggest this: consider that this is a great advantage for our country, perhaps for some there is a shortage. But children and their classmates will definitely get together in life, or if not with them, with others who are of exactly the same nature and with whom, as adults, the same situations come out in a slightly different form. We'll probably get together with our workmates, and the word will spread. If you're gonna introduce yourself as a word-breaking person, my life experience tells me it's not gonna go unpunished. And maybe such a social norm is even more stringent than any one written down.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U192	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U193	Thank you, Mr President. A candidate for the Chancellor of Justice! I have a very specific question. In fact, our group has decided to support you, I have come to this Chamber and I am now waiting for this vote, right, but there was a wish to ask. In answer to the first question, although you were asked to comment on the decision of the Laar Government, you began to comment on the decision of the Stalin Government and called forced tenants, by the way, more than 100,000, or their parents or grandparents as informants. Isn't that too much? How do you feel about that now? In my opinion, there are no more than 10% of the informants among any nation, as you might have understood your answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U194	I am deeply sorry if my words gave the impression that I have labeled a large number of Estonian people, my fellow citizens with such a label. I didn't do it. I'm really sorry to get that impression. Because the example I was talking about was a concrete example, which unfortunately has been proven by historical facts. Before that, I explained that I know a lot of examples of people who have been careful to keep their homes, and that was why they had to return, lost their homes, and they were in a very difficult situation. That's what I was talking about earlier. As for the decisions of Mart Laar's government, as far as I know, they've been debated in court. I tried to refer to that too. And I wanted to say that ideally, such a reform should never have been made. I have asked a lot of people how property reform should have been carried out in such a way as to minimise the number of victims. There are still no brilliant recipes. That's what I meant. Once again, I apologize from the heart if that was the impression. I never treat people like that by tagging or denouncing people like that, I don't take heart.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U195	Marko Storm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U196	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Very honorable Chancellor of Justice! I support your candidacy 100%, and I think your office has done very well in the previous period. It seems to me that, in the defence of fundamental rights, we are moving more and more along the road in Estonia that we can stand up for people's rights and resolve situations. But how does your office foresee that we can explain to our people in the same way what comes with civil responsibility and responsibilities and ensure that there is a balance between rights and responsibility in society?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U197	Thank you very much for your good words. Yes, in this crisis too, I have learned that almost every position must emphasise that the title of the second chapter of the Constitution is quite rightly 'Fundamental rights, freedoms and obligations'. Freedom can only be allowed if responsibility is accepted and responsibility can be required when freedom is given to choose between ways of action. That's what you have to explain every day. We have quite a young schoolgirl visiting, and there are many meetings. For all of them, it is good to explain to them in the current crisis how freedom and responsibility, right and obligation must go hand in hand, and that there is also a general principle in the Estonian legal order: you must not harm others with your actions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U198	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U199	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! Here's the question. There must be victories in life, but there are casualties. There are things that you can be proud of, but also things that may not have been very successful. How do you look back at this seven-year period? What could you have done differently? Or where would you have felt that the Riigikogu should have put on its shoulders because your own strength was a little small? What could you have done differently today if you looked smarter than you did today?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U200	Thank you very much. I guess every working day in this job you can rejoice at what you managed to do, and as a self - critical person, I always find something that could certainly have been better done. At the same time, it's not like you want to talk about bad things afterwards, but you don't want to brag about good things again. I can tell you that I took all these suggestions, requests, presentations in preparation for you. Some things had already slipped their minds, but they did. Thank you very much, but, as I have said, there is a lot of work ahead of you, even the question of how local council members can defend their rights. We have turned to the request, but at the moment this issue is still unsolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U201	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U202	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Your Honor, Chancellor! Thank you very much for this work and with dignity for filling this post. And thank you very much to your team, please forward! The institution of the Chancellor of Justice was restored on the basis of consistency with the 1992 Constitution. It is possible to read on your website that the tasks have been permanently added to this institution. The prevention of abuse has been added, the protection of the rights of the child in 2007 to 2011 and the observation of the protection of personal data by the executive authorities in 2015. My question would be: do you feel that, now, before the new term of office or at the end of the old age, the Chancellor of Justice has enough, too many or too few tasks? Could there be any tasks that you feel that this institution should and could do more and that could be discussed in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U203	Thank you very much. I think that these tasks, which have been added to the function of the classical Chancellor of Justice, belong very well to this. All those you mentioned, in addition to respecting the rights of people with disabilities, are being promoted. According to the wishes of the Government of the Republic, we also applied for accreditation of the national human rights authority, because it is extremely important in Estonia's international relations and, for us, it also assures us that we meet all the standards of independence and quality of work that have been set internationally. We can handle them. I gotta say, everybody's got more work than they can do. If the Riigikogu should decide to add an additional task and it can be matched with other tasks in such a way that it will benefit Estonia, then why not. I didn't come here to ask for anything to add to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U204	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U205	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Chancellor of Justice! One of your positive examples that you have just brought to my ear is that young people are now beginning to see a psychiatrist. Is it really your opinion that they didn't get it sooner?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U206	Thank you very much. Yes, it was a case-by-case, but the psychiatrists of children and young people approached us with this concern. Fortunately, the Riigikogu took the matter up and found a solution. Of course, most of the time, the heavens would say that this would mostly be the case with the concerns of family members, especially when it comes to minors, being resolved together. The common situation is that the whole family is involved in a person's recovery, even if he or she needs psychiatric help. Unfortunately, there are also exceptional drivers. When you ask child psychiatrists, they say, there are those who have fallen victim to violence in their family, and that is why they seek help. They don't get the consent of this perpetrator to seek help. Unfortunately, there are also those whose parents have left Estonia and who are not very interested in the welfare of their children or who do not receive this consent. It was in these cases that the opportunity was needed to help young people and to help them overcome their concerns. So it's not a rule, it's still an exception.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U207	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U208	Thank you. Good Chancellor of Justice! Do you think it is constitutional that the state and the municipality maintain two parallel school systems in different languages, so that the Russian section provides poorer education, so worse fate, poorer health, less housing and a job? Is it constitutional? And is it constitutional that we do not, everyone, be voluntary, simply do not support it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U209	Thank you very much. This was one of the first presentations of my term of office to the Riigikogu, and the topic was precisely that all children born in Estonia, regardless of which family they were born to and at which point in Estonia they were born, should have such a good education that their starting position in life is as good as it can be. In other words, because of their native language or home, no one needs to suffer because they are born into a non-Estonian native family or in a corner of Estonia where education is not well available. The Riigikogu has also taken steps to complete this report. The question you have asked, I fear, is largely one of those world-sighted choices where, on the basis of the Constitution, lawyers cannot say in advance what must be done. There is so much to be said about the Constitution that all children, regardless of their mother tongue or their socio-economic status, must be able to receive a very good education.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U210	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U211	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Madam Chancellor of Justice and the candidate for the next term of office of the Chancellor of Justice. Is the right of an unborn child to life a fundamental human right?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U212	Thank you very much. According to the legal consensus prevailing in Estonia, the starting point of life is formulated in the law as it is formulated. And it is not possible to change that choice in the hands of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U213	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U214	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Chancellor of Justice candidate! I would also very much like to congratulate you on the work you are doing and your office is doing. In your brief presentation, you also mentioned the importance of the Bureau and the staff. I was gonna ask you about that. I have sometimes even wondered how you can cover all the topics so professionally, because your activities do not only require the expertise of legal experts, staff must have specialist knowledge or specific knowledge in a wide range of areas. How do you deal with staff, given that your office isn't very spacious, either?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U215	Thank you very much. Thank you for those good words. As I said, I absolutely agree. I think the Chancellor of Justice brings together excellent specialists. Everyone who works for us is certainly one of Estonia's best if not the best. If I can create such an environment by doing what I do, or sometimes by not doing something stupid, that people are good to work, they are creative and feel that it depends on them how things go in Estonia, that they are trusted that the result will come, it will not stay behind me, then I think that something has been done right. But I think our people are really good. Unfortunately, in many areas we do not have a number of specialists, it is true again, but in a small country where we need to be thrifty, perhaps there would be no other way. So thanks for caring! And where there's a need, we can get experts in there. For example, our visits in nursing homes or detention facilities are still accompanied by professional medical staff or experts from other areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U216	Thank you very much. No further questions for the Chancellor of Justice's candidate. We can open negotiations. Once again, the representatives of the political groups can take part in the negotiations. First of all, the representative of the EKRE Group, Anti Poolamets, has signed up. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U217	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! Good candidate for Chancellor of Justice! I'll start with some commendation to be objective. Certainly, the current Chancellor of Justice has not been a court-martial. It was clearly evident how he in his position of insurance, precisely in terms of the courage to raise more acute problems. But quite quickly, I still come to the point that gentleness is not in this position of virtue. Especially when we have the strongest restrictions on fundamental rights in 30 years. Even if there are those who consider such restrictions to be justified, it is also highly justified to think every three or four days whether it is now time to change. Is it time now? Not that every three months, we read a science article and don't know if it is. Still every three days, especially when such severe restrictions are at stake. And more importantly, I shared a post on Facebook in the spring that somewhere in British bars will be checked, a pilot project will be carried out to check some evidence that can drink beer in a bar, who can't, and it was as startling as it was for months to come. That is why we must not be gentle in these matters. You can't be gentle, because tomorrow, the reality is the science fiction reality that Australia already tends to be. A lot of pseudo-problems have been dealt with, unfortunately. Although every fundamental right is important, I understand, but still. So far, this real country does not recall the affair of the homosexual couple in which African country and the issue of their entry into this country had to be discussed by the Chancellor of Justice. Well, yeah. Does this wallet really go to the right place in this case? Another problem. If every member of the Riigikogu has to renew his mandate and prove his or her eligibility in the eyes of voters, our senior officials will rotate and rotation and rotation. This circle has become very narrow when we are going to the next post at the next ministry. That's why seven years is quite a long time in one position. There's a danger that passion will go away. Üllar Saaremäe knows what it means to lose passion on stage. This isn't the same show anymore. Your performance, true, was full of passion the last time I looked at it, still. However, there is a reasonable suspicion that passion may be lost to officials, especially officials. We have the right to ask these questions. [[He's asking for more time.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U218	Yeah, three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U219	So we must not enter the Mandarin era, the really great era of Chinese high officials, where they know, they say, and the emperor can also turn into a mandarin toy. Now, an urgent problem that cannot be left out. Force vaccination. Whatever the reasons, it's not legal. They're still gonna get there and do it. I acknowledge: the Chancellor of Justice stated at least that the validity of the certificate of infirmity should be at least one year. Elementary. Elementary! The most protective thing during the corona is the infirmity of the disease. But I was concerned that in October 2021 Ülle Madise said: the Korona rules are legitimate. And at the same time a very beautiful statement in August: "The real purpose of the requirement for a coronal certificate must not be to punish or encourage anyone to vaccinate. In such a case, it would be the introduction of a disguised vaccination obligation. " But we've been doing this a long time ago. Biological hazards in Estonian National Broadcasting? Yeah, some janitors got out of the shot. Let me say that this is not a forced vaccination! You see, even the belief in vaccination in Hungary does better than we do. He's not gonna fire these people. He says hire a vacation. In any case, it would be better, because in six months' time, if this unpaid holiday lasts, it turns out that the omicron has been replaced by a strain called Comrade Ksii. And they're gonna get rid of this problem, they're gonna get their job back. They don't have any idea, no high-paid guy, that it's a little more lenient for them than throwing dozens of officers on the street, policemen, maybe ERR employees. This is a very bad thing, no matter how it is disguised, as Maris Lauri does not say that forced vaccination would be the destruction of a single European road. Do we really have to believe that? Read the biological hazard analysis, then you know that there are no drops of truth in the sentence that we do not have a forced vaccination. And for a negative test, at least the Chancellor of Justice could have fought. It's a real evidence of infection today. How can an infection safety certificate be this vaccination certificate if the entire Rakvere City Government cannot gather because they cannot get the quorum together? They're all sick, aren't they? In any case, 30 years' maximum restrictions. A leniency program doesn't help here. And in addition, the Constitution is like Swiss cheese. In any important place, the European Commission, the European Parliament and the Council of Europe also issue rules here. Then who's fighting? I'd like the Chancellor of Justice to prove himself like Indrek Teder, who gave the ESM to the Supreme Court. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I don't know, maybe we could've avoided it by a single-voiced majority. I ask the Chancellor of Justice to put an end to the leniency program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U220	I don't see any more calls, I'm closing the negotiations. The Chancellor of Justice is still right... Oh, it's not. Then it's like we're going to the final vote, and first there's the sally. Ladies and gentlemen, the lead committee has proposed a final vote of 488 on the draft decision. The final vote shall be secret. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U221	[[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U222	Let's move on to today's agenda. Today's second item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group and Riigikogu member Raimond Kaljulaid. The rapporteur is Riina Sikkut, member of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U223	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democrats have proposed that the income tax-free minimum take the same step as the increase in the minimum wage, i.e. now rising to EUR 654 per month. Why? When the income tax reform was introduced and the tax-free minimum was raised to EUR 500, it was a fundamental decision because the minimum wage was EUR 500 at the time...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U224	Ladies and gentlemen, please keep it down in the hall. Yes, please, Riina!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U225	... there was a tax-free minimum to raise to a minimum wage, saying that this work, which people do for a minimum wage, is valuable, to motivate work and not to take on tax. It's difficult to deal with these people anyway. The tax we charge there must be returned to them in the form of grants. So we value work and improve the livelihood of these people. At the same time, it is particularly relevant at this time when we have discussed the impact of the unexpected rise in energy prices for a long time in recent days. If people's monthly incomes are higher, better managed, they will be better able to cope with such shocks. In a situation where the government takes time to decide and implement measures, it will be possible to wait for them to be implemented and also to receive compensation afterwards. So ensuring that people live on a monthly basis gives people a better chance to cope, no matter what the unexpected is, these are restrictions on health crises or the cost of energy. Looking at the impact, raising the tax-free minimum to EUR 654 means about EUR 30 per month, i.e. EUR 360 per year for a minimum wage servant. All in all, the budgetary impact is almost 80 million, which is in no way science fictional or excessive, it is actually possible. We made similar decisions in the framework of this budgetary procedure. Looking at the broader framework of tax policy, it is fortunate that the Centre for Monitoring Development has analysed the future security of the tax system and provides us with very valuable information on the basis of decision-making. They have looked at the direction of the tax policies of the Member States of the European Union: what are the changes that are being made? One very important thing that has emerged is the reduction of the tax burden on low-paid people. Yes, we encourage work, we guarantee our livelihood. The fiscal instrument is very good for this. So either a lower tax rate or a high tax-free minimum. In the tax scenarios of the Development Monitoring Centre for Estonia, it is also important whether we direct the tax system more towards achieving the objectives of the green turn or offering equal opportunities, or [is the aim that] in the conditions of future work [people] would be able to cope with it, each scenario played an important role in the increase in the tax-free minimum. At least the minimum wage, but also the minimum wage of 1.25 times the minimum wage or twice the minimum wage, was what remained tax-free in each scenario. This is an effective way of reducing income inequality that we stand out in Estonia. However, in addition to having a relatively high income inequality at the same time, it has improved, we will soon reach a better position than the European average, we cannot fail to note that our social system's ability to reduce income inequality is weak, much worse than many other Member States of the European Union, not to mention Finland. Perhaps since we cannot alleviate income inequality through social transfers, a higher tax-free minimum would be a good way to do so. I ask again why we need this greater equality of income, better livelihood. In fact, in the case of Estonia in recent years, asset inequality has also been greatly analysed. Really, get 30 euros or more or less in one month tax-free: well, there's nothing you can't buy, well, pay no bill in two months. But it doesn't concern one month. It concerns all months, it concerns years, it ultimately affects the entire working life of a person and it is reflected in the inequality of assets. In Estonia, asset inequality is very high. Eesti Pank's analysis of people's financial and saving behaviour showed that business assets, financial assets and financial assets are particularly unequally divided, as the ability of people on minimum wages to save is low. It is basically impossible to save something for the next few months, not to mention to invest in and benefit from the financial markets. So if we fail to deal with income inequality, asset inequality will inevitably be amplified. Greater inequality - why do all the Member States of the European Union deal with this? Why has the Pillar of Social Rights actually been approved, adopted during the Estonian Presidency? Because this inequality is in no way the concern of one person or household. When income inequality is high, it becomes an immediate concern for society as a whole. In fact, there are several mechanisms of action, they have been well described-analyzed, their effects have been assessed. On the one hand, growing income inequality is an understandable cause of dissatisfaction, a sense of social exclusion, instability. There is potential for political risks to materialise, for example by reducing foreign investment. On the other hand, in the case of a particular person, if he or she is unable, for example, to modernise his or her skills due to low income, to participate in retraining, then he or she will not be able to apply his or her potential. So the growth of our economy as a whole is lower because we are not making the most of our people's potential. It is precisely the increase in inequality at the bottom of this distribution scale that is highlighted as a threat to economic growth. The most direct mode of action is that if we also analyse the country's fiscal strategy, it is clear that low-paid people will shift most of their income to consumption, it will go back to the economy, and in the short term, it will affect our internal consumption and growth. But in the longer term, we have general social dissatisfaction and holding back the potential or maximum potential of the economy. There are things that we can do if we support our people better, ensure their livelihood and enable them to modernise their skills. All these data on income inequality, poverty, living in both absolute and relative poverty, come with a relatively large delay. Fortunately, figures for 2020 have come in over the last month. In absolute poverty, 2.2% of the population lived in Estonia, with 20.6% of the population living in relative poverty. This 2.2% seems like a very small number, we've had this situation much worse, but it still means 28,700 people. Yes, the number is somewhat smaller, by 0.1% both absolute and relative poverty has decreased, but the circle of those affected is still very, very large. In relative poverty, nearly 270000 people lived last year and their income per household member was less than EUR 631. So for people living in relative poverty, the income of some household members may also be high, but if we look at income per household member and compare it with that of other members of society, because not only is the absolute rate of income important, but also how a person goes compared to others, we see that although the proportion of relative poverty has decreased by 0.1%, change is minimal. In fact, we have not been able to take any conscious political steps to reduce relative poverty. However, we have a lot of data, there are in-depth data, data on different types of households. Somehow, I don't know, it can be startling, given the discussions in this Chamber about, for example, the reorganisation of the maintenance system, that last year those who had the greatest change, among whom relative poverty grew, were single parents. It was the type of household that got worse. In the case of older people, Estonia also stands out by the fact that the elderly, especially those living alone, are those for whom relative poverty really [includes] almost half of all people in this population group. Therefore, we have not been able to implement a policy that gradually, step by step, each year would reduce both absolute and relative poverty. At the same time, we have the data, the knowledge and the opportunity to do so as a country. Therefore, the Socialist proposal is to make this sensible decision. In the context of the current high price increase, in the context of the electricity price shock, given the effectiveness of this instrument or actually working, the fact that it really goes to households in difficulty and, at the same time, motivates work, not to be excluded from the labour market, and also budgetaryly, it is not too much to go on, I call for support for the draft Social Democrats. We are indeed taking this first step towards a modern tax system and reducing the tax burden on low-wage earners. Reasonable step, good step. I'd be happy to answer the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U226	And there are questions. Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U227	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! What, then, is ultimately more favourable to the state and the taxpayer and also guarantees the dignity of people, is it that we take part in taxes from a very low-income worker and distribute it back to him in the form of grants and other benefits, either directly from the state or through local authorities, or that we do not really collect that tax from the already low-income person, [we leave this money], and he can decide for himself how he spends this money? Did the draft issue be considered or analysed?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U228	Thank you. Really a very good question, that is what reflects the choice we have as a society. Indeed, we can respect the principle that tax payments are the duty of every citizen and, if any euro is earned, that tax must be deducted from it and processed and income support distributed. But undoubtedly the dignity of people, their trust in the state, and their motivation to work are higher in a situation where we would rather say, "Good for you! I'm so glad you're betting! This job, which you do for a low salary, is valuable to society and we will not charge it. " I think this is both an effective and a fair way of shaping Estonia's tax policy, and I really hope that this step will be supported in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U229	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U230	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Now, if you come back to the beginning of your story, if I remember correctly, your proposal was to raise the tax exemption from EUR 500 to EUR 654. I would ask whether you discussed the annual income and this differentiation, or whether you did not discuss it or whether you do not foresee it. When you discussed, what could be the annual income where the income tax goes to zero?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U231	Indeed, if the income tax-free minimum were to go one step with the minimum wage, then I think it is like this fundamental value attitude that we do not charge a tax on the minimum wage. On the other hand, the annual revenue of EUR 7848 would then be zero. On this, we would not charge income tax, so that the income that would not be taxed would be nearly EUR 8 000 per year. It is undoubtedly possible to consider major changes to the income tax system, but both in the context of the current price increase and in the light of the simplicity of implementation, our proposal is something that can be implemented over the next few years. In fact, the attitude here is that, when the minimum wage rises, it is very nice that the social partners have reached an agreement and that trade unions and employers have raised the minimum wage with such a rapid step, because in the current environment it is really a sole decision, it should also be achieved that this step, the minimum increase, is accompanied by a minimum wage [an increase] so that we do not have to make it all the time with political decisions in this Chamber. What to do more in the tax system is a separate issue for discussion. I would also like to address the issue of tax rates and all other issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U232	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U233	Thank you, Honourable President of the Riigikogu. Good Riina! This is certainly a very right and fair proposal, an initiative from the Social Democrats, all the more so as you said that the impact of this draft on the state budget is quite small and, at the same time, it will clearly help to improve the dignity of the low-paid. My question is this. Why do you think today's government is not supporting this bill? It is all the more strange that we have a party in the government union that, at least in words, has been fighting over the years to improve the livelihood of low-paid people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U234	Thank you. That's a good question. Indeed, it is surprising that this is an effective measure and there is no doubt that there is a need. After all, we also tabled an amendment to the budget in order to find a budget covering the situation where we have submitted a draft amendment to the Income Tax Act, which we are already working on in the Riigikogu. We have also proposed corresponding amendments to apply a higher tax-free minimum. In a situation where these options have been sufficient to make a reasonable decision, it is incomprehensible that this decision has not been supported. Especially in view of the previous statements made by the government department and the current and unexpected need to ensure that people can cope. We see that the government is looking for ways to mitigate electricity price shocks or energy price shocks, but they are difficult to find, difficult to implement. In fact, it means that people will be alone with their bills for a very long time. The offer of this type of mitigation measure in the form of a tax-free minimum would, in fact, be a very, very simple and sensible way of doing so in such a situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U235	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U236	Thank you. Well, I despise this tax system. One of these arguments has always been that it does not really help the poor, but it is presented as some kind of social policy measure, like eradicating poverty. But you did the same. You said it would help the poor, you talked about deep poverty, 2%.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U237	Thank you. We also had a very interesting debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and we do have basically different starting points. I do not think that every person should definitely pay a tax on the euro he has earned. It is the decision of society that we value work and do not charge a certain amount of tax. But really, in absolute poverty, we have the most unemployed. Perhaps raising unemployment benefit and other measures will undoubtedly help to support people living in absolute poverty. But if we look at people living in relative poverty, or one fifth of Estonian people, when we rank a million Estonian adults, nearly half of the monthly income is below the minimum wage. If we put all adults in a row, then [see that] very many, nearly half of them earn less and benefit from the fact that the income tax-free minimum... [[A voice from the hall.]] Well, almost half, the fifth decile is the ones who can theoretically win.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U238	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U239	Thank you. Good waitress! I think the report went off a little bit. I myself say that I, too, am doubtful about these very measures as to whether they are really helping directly to reduce poverty. Poverty has its own specific and quite individual causes. Rather, we should look at targeted measures that help people. I couldn't help but notice that you talked a lot about people in absolute poverty. It is in these cases that we should look at what really helps them, whether this increase in the tax-free minimum or some services and the provision of specific aid by local authorities. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U240	Thank you. In fact, the focus of my message was that reducing income inequality and improving the livelihood of low-paid people are the main objectives. There is no dispute that the causes of poverty are diverse and that the instruments that should be used are more than a tax-free minimum. At the same time, we are looking at the data of people living in absolute and relative poverty in recent years. We have not gotten any better, we need to start taking these steps. It is clear that raising the tax-free minimum is not enough, but this does not mean that this step should not be taken. I do not agree [what is said] with low-paid people and that it should be implemented very purposefully. We are talking about the fact that this is actually a matter of human dignity, that he will be able to pay his bills, that he will be able to make more free choices in the food basket, that it is not something he has to ask for from the municipality. Targeting support is undoubtedly important and there are people who need more help to re-enter the labour market, because these barriers can be very high, but if a person is already working, earning income, he could have more freedom to use his income. Let's face it, a minimum wage rise of EUR 654 seems to be a big leap, but it's a small income. We really shouldn't be taking income tax there. It's a low income.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U241	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U242	Thank you, dear waitress. Well, I suppose you and Mr. Ligi and his party, I think, have a weather dispute here. The vision of the Reform Party in general is that the poorest must be thrown at cripples so that they do not actually die of hunger, and with it the state has fulfilled its duty. I don't think that's it. "Dignity" is one of the terms through which it can be addressed, but the other [the subject] is, however, wider than that, so that society can develop as coherently as possible. Now about this particular concern about helping the poorest. In fact, this proposal also has a clear positive impact on employment and the reduction of unemployment traps. So he's actually helping those who aren't working today. But my question is this: since the substantive arguments are all in favour of this proposal, is the only argument against it either fiscal or financial by a government that does not support it, or are there any substantive arguments against it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U243	Thank you. I agree, the health crisis has also shown that we have little coherence. One way to improve this is if people feel like a decent member of society, can work, can manage themselves. However, with regard to this proposal, the arguments against the Socialist proposal, indeed, the government, too, did not object to the objective that work should still be valued and managed. But they have their own draft, the draft amendment to the Income Tax Act, which concerns the tax exemption of the average pension for pensioners, they have another instrument, there is no budgetary cover in the budget for next year, and in fact there are also fundamental views on whether a person has to pay income tax or whether he does not have to pay income tax. This was the debate we had in the Commission. The representatives of the coalition found that the person has to pay income tax regardless of the level of income. So there is a fundamental opposition to this amendment, despite the fact that very many countries in the European Union are implementing it and seeing it as a way of ensuring the livelihood of the low-wage earners, reducing income inequality and thus increasing economic growth.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U244	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U245	Thank you. I would also like to clarify this aspect. It is likely that if this bill is supported and adopted in this Chamber, then over time, over the years, the economy will evolve, companies will do a good job, wages will rise and at one point the minimum wage will rise. What happens then? Shouldn't there be any mechanism in the law that would raise this border if the wealth of the Estonian people on the one hand increased and incomes also changed? We're indexing pensions, for example. Could there be a similar solution here, as is the case with pensions, so that this tax-free minimum is indexed?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U246	Thank you. Once again, a very, very sharp observation. We have found that this should not be a matter of political decision-making on the rise in pensions. Pensions keep up the cost of living. Why should the income tax-free minimum not reflect an increase in the minimum wage? It has to do with these people's unemployment. If, as a society, we have agreed that we will appreciate this contribution to work so worthy and not charge it, it will not change in any way in time. Once we have a fundamental value decision, it should not be difficult to put it into law. Now we have a strange situation where, in fact, the government has not considered this indexation or the attachment to the minimum wage to be good. At the same time, for people, we have somehow found that linking kindergarten to a minimum wage or a minimum maintenance allowance is reasonable. When the minimum wage rises, people's costs increase. This risk should somehow be mitigated by the individual. But how does the state cope with the risk of a sudden increase in the minimum wage and a fall in tax revenue? For some reason, we assume that citizens are much more capable than the state to manage its budget. It was also pointed out in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that if such a risk of slowing down tax growth for the budget materialises, it will be difficult for the country to manage. But I agree that it would actually be reasonable for people to have a tax-free minimum linked to a minimum wage.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U247	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U248	Thank you for the floor. Good waitress! Today, in this debate, it has been said several times that the Reform Party has a clear dogmatic belief that everyone has to pay income tax. Can you explain to me what their justification is, why everyone has to pay income tax, especially in a situation where, just a while ago, we adopted a bill from a government led by the Reform Party, which, however, will be exempt from income tax in the year after that? Why, then, do some people have to pay income tax, but others can be exempted? Or the Reform Party's decades of reinvested profits tax exemption. If an entrepreneur invests his money somewhere, he may do so on a tax-free basis, but the person who receives the minimum wage will have to pay income tax. What's the explanation for this dogmatic vision?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U249	Thank you. A very good question, but since I am from another value area and do not share these opinions, it is very difficult for me to explain how, by looking at Estonia's relative poverty data or people's livelihoods, inflation, this view can be maintained in the current circumstances and what the point is. The fact that the grants are targeted at no yes. What about the tax system? Perhaps someday in the future we will come to individual taxes so that we can really manage a person's tax burden. But, inevitably, when we are talking about an individual tax burden, we should look at this tax more broadly, in addition to the person's contribution to work, property and property that he has. Today, there is also talk of targeting the tax burden, but very narrowly only for those who receive income from paid employment. This is incomprehensible because, indeed, there are people whose income comes from other places and whose assets are growing in value, under some circumstances, the increase in the value of the property is tax-free. Such a decision is incomprehensible to me. We have not discussed this in the Committee on Monetary Affairs either. But a more thorough reform of the Estonian tax system to enable us to reduce inequalities in society and actually to achieve the country's longer-term goals is undoubtedly necessary. I understand the Social Democrats are ready, we're ready to bet. We are already discussing this and we are ready to continue to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U250	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U251	Thank you. Good Riina! I'd like to ask you if my reasoning is correct. When we think about what is happening in our economy, what energy and heating prices have done, it is disastrous. The biggest sufferers are likely to be on average wages due to the price of heating and electricity, and people who receive just under average wages. Why? Those people that Jürgen uses as an example here all the time, those in the first decile who really do not earn very little or do not earn at all, will receive compensation for the price of this heat and electricity by coping[with support]. Every person needs some space to live. Whether you earn more or earn less, you need this room about as much as you need. Raising the tax-free minimum would also be a very significant relief, especially for those who are hardest able to do so, i.e. those who receive the average and below this salary, during the rise in heating and electricity prices.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U252	Thank you. I totally agree. For me, too, the results of the analysis of the assets of the Estonian people were surprising. We had a whole line of people, a lower decile whose savings, the deposit at the end of the month, if I remember correctly, were 10.80. In such a case, a person cannot cover one month's electricity bill shock at the expense of his savings. So, no doubt, this effect is great and it is very difficult to imagine how people can even pay their bills in these circumstances.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U253	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U254	Thank you. The second question on the subject already mentioned. Indeed, older fellow citizens have been granted a higher tax exemption. There are certainly reasons for this. Indeed, the lives of pensioners are not easy either, given Estonia's low pensions and low social protection costs. On the other hand, pensioners have the good thing that they have a steady income, albeit low, at least monthly. I do not dispute that pensioners need greater income tax exemptions, but there are many more vulnerable people in the workforce: single mothers who work on low wages have to support children, etc. What could be the substantive argument as to why a group is envisaged to have this option, but does not recommend it to others?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U255	Thank you. I would also add that much has been said so far about the simplicity of the Estonian tax system, but now that two separate tax regimes are created for people under 65 and over 65 years of age, it is strange in itself, it does not in any way increase the simplicity of the tax system. Undoubtedly, among the elderly, we have the highest relative poverty, especially for the elderly living alone, and they also need subsidies, that the income tax-free minimum keeps pace with the average pension. I absolutely support, agree, this should be done, but this does not mean that the increase in the tax-free minimum should be denied to people who are working, who really have this income risk, are not guaranteed monthly income, and, on the other hand, there are costs that maybe a retired person does not have, it concerns raising children, circles of interest, something else. Indeed, low incomes should be treated in the same way, regardless of age. If the average pension exemption from income tax has been considered to be correct, then the same should undoubtedly be granted to the working person. On the other hand, we look at the social problems in a wider sense, when a person is concerned that he or she cannot get his or her expenses covered from his or her monthly income. After all, we see what is happening in the case of fast borrowing, what is the part of society that turns to fast lending, what are the consequences of the long-term impact on people's official employment and how much this affects the lives of people who have once fallen into that trap. I think the social impact is much greater than we can imagine. Clear steps should still exist and be implemented by the government to ensure our livelihood and also to reduce relative poverty.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U256	Thank you very much. There are no more questions. The next item is Mr Jürgen Ligi, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U257	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would point out that the previous speaker, however, did not represent the Reform Party and could not have been asked these questions. Also, I represent the Commission here. This draft was discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs last Monday and decided not to stop reading the first 6th: 4th readings. What were the main arguments for not stopping? Firstly, indeed, the budgetary impact, according to 128 million authors, the Commission did not have its own calculation to resist, but this order of magnitude seems plausible. An extremely expensive measure. I was still surprised several times today when I listened to this presentation, because it was as if some misconceptions had been answered in the Commission, but the rapporteur repeated them. First of all, criticism in the committee also sounded in the direction that, as a rule, things are not associated with the minimum wage, the minimum wage in Estonia, and the bindings that have been made are rather being removed. Last time it was about maintenance, it has been done several times in different municipalities for kindergarten fees. I don't know if anyone's going to do that anymore, that kindergarten fees are going up with a minimum wage. I do not know why the author came back to claim that there would be the logic of this draft. Linking to a minimum wage is undoubtedly an indexation that public finances do not actually tolerate, which rigidizes the entire budgetary process. The minimum wage is generally rising faster than the budget revenue. He has also grown faster than the average wage in general. That's the target. The Commission also did not consider it appropriate that employers and employees agree on such a large share of the state budget that such revenue would not be collected. This mechanism is not simply under state control, formally it is, but purely democratically, the government has confirmed what the labour market players agree. The author walked around very freely with the word "poverty." No, this measure, this increase does not really concern the poor by definition, although we admit that it is not rich people, of course, but small-income earners. No, they're not poor. However, this is not the way to discuss the financial bill. This is where they tried to ridicule the commitment that all people have to pay the tax. Well, it's actually one of the pillars of democracy. A person who is entitled to vote could also see his own contribution. After all, he is going to vote in elections, and this vote should still be not only about the income of other people, but also about his own revenues. It should have some kind of preference for the tax system, which also affects it itself. It's not some design dogma, it's just one of the long-standing principles of taxation. For demographic reasons, a wide tax base is very important for us, for Estonians. This is not only about democracy but also about the tax base. Its endless narrowing will ultimately take its toll and make it harder for the real [helpers] to help. I would like to point out once again that the tax-free minimum does not reach the very poor, because they simply do not earn income to the extent of taxable income. But just the poor ones! If someone here ironed or designed one of the political parties represented in the Commission [the idea] that they would only share cripples with the poor here, then this person lied. It was Jevgeni Ossinovski. No, that's no way to attribute positions to others and then attack them. The same goes for Riina Sikkut. Do not in this way give your views to others! On the contrary, it is the view that State support should go first and foremost to the weakest. Whether he has to reach the fifth deciline is questionable, but this time we did not argue at all or argue at all about it. For some reason, we stopped here for a very long time as to whether pensioners needed relief. This was a somewhat non-social democratic position. I don't want to abuse this debate here just to point the finger, but the explanation in the committee sounded. Pensioners are the group of people who can no longer increase their own income, and our pensions are undoubtedly small, unlike those who can choose to work, to increase their qualifications. Pensioners already have so much of this tax liability in their lifetime and, at the same time, the possibilities of earning income are so limited that this tax exemption is not unreasonable here. When an exemption of EUR 500 [EUR] was introduced, in fact, a large part of its budget coverage was actually taken at the expense of the weaker, including the loss of the tax-free minimum for pensioners, the loss of wage support for the low-wage earners, the increase in excise duties, which is a regressive tax in the sense that the poor pay more in percentage terms. That's just to get the budget cover. Several tax incentives have disappeared, which are in fact important or more felt for the poorer. So this was not a very social step in itself. Rather, it can be said that, given its 500 [euro] sources of cover, all the more so if the tax-free minimum was 654 euros, as of now, pensioners were moving towards relative poverty. Because of this in fact the state, Riigikogu has adjusted it and released the average pension again from income tax. What else? Yeah, there were other claims. Again, to talk about the poorest decibel, how this really did not pay the Commission's electricity bills. But the Commission knows very well that there are income subsidies, from which utilities are quite generously covered, rather than other costs. But just so there's no misconception, I'll mention it. What else did we discuss? One of [themes] was the exemption for pensioners, whether they need it or not. Most believe that they still need this additional [exemption] for this reason. We also argued about which tax exemption system would be fair. One position in favour of a uniform, uniform, tax-free minimum for all was the idea that everyone could have a single free-of-charge rate. But of course, when we lift it very sharply, like it was raised to 500, they took it from where they really shouldn't have taken it. This draft Income Tax Act from, I offer, 2016, or it was 2017, is still very characteristic. Take a look at the table where the budget cover was taken. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] It wasn't a social bill. That is what we said in the Commission. Okay. That is all I would like to say, more or less, is an overview of what has been said in the Commission and also in this board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U258	You have questions too. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U259	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Jurgen! You said, first of all, that this measure is very expensive, that it is not effective. But I'd ask you this way. Apart from what has been said in this Chamber, it is also a very regional policy measure. Perhaps, as a rule, people who would receive a higher tax-free minimum, [does not live] here in Tallinn and in the neighbouring municipalities of Tallinn. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U260	Thank you. I didn't say that it was very expensive, and I didn't say that he was, how it was, badly aimed, I didn't say either, or that he was inefficient, I didn't say that. I said the amount and I told him where he was going. He is not aimed at the poorest, that is what I said, and that is what we touched on in the Commission. But regional policy has two aspects. Nor should it be underestimated from the point of view of democracy that if we release a very large part of Estonia regionally from income tax, then again the question is whether Estonia is united. After all, there are large regions where there really are small wages. If your tax contribution is zero, it is a kind of dependant, a municipal dependant. It's not a real self-government definition that he doesn't even collect the tax, he gets the allowance. So I haven't generally been very fast tax-free... Not me, but a number of members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs have been concerned about this very rapid change over time, and this time, too, in rejecting it. It is simply not possible to delete the tax base, including regionally, it does indeed have its own dimension. One way or the other. In short, even the usual tax-free minimum has, of course, a regional dimension, here, as there is no very big difference, but this sharp increase will make local people's own tax contribution to the local budget very sharply less. This error was already made in 2016.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U261	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U262	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, We really had a very heated debate in the Commission, a good reflection of this in this Chamber. I would also ask about the regional dimension. As we have seen in the budgetary discussions, there are very few decisions that are consciously taken to improve regional balance. Longer cuts decisions all automatically take away something from the regions. However, in the case of the tax-free minimum, we know that income is lower, indeed by hundreds of euros the average income is lower outside Tallinn and the golden circle. In fact, an increase in the tax-free minimum would also automatically be a regional measure. A very large proportion, perhaps two thirds or more, would go to rural areas. Why can such a measure, which improves livelihoods, affect people's ability to stay at work and improves regional balance, simply cannot be supported because a broad tax base is more valuable?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U263	Thank you. In fact, I do not believe that this regional aspect was affected in the Commission. I was just trying to answer the exact same question to Kalvi Tough. Yes, I have to admit. But we have always had a reminder in previous discussions, when the increase in the tax-free minimum is protected, that this is indeed a regional policy measure, that the revenues are lower, the effective rate of return is lower by this. But for that to happen, it doesn't have to be that jagged from below, which creates new problems. If such a budgetaryly expensive decision was made and money was scraped all over, as I did from several sources, it has, in summary, been very difficult to increase this rate for the next five years. I'd imagined it would be difficult. Those reserves were taken away with great urgency. We are in the situation that we have quite large support for the tax-free minimum in general, much less support for such a minimum. But if he was taken away so sharply, it's gonna be hard for the budget to come out of this breathlessness, unfortunately. He's still out of his league right now, we have a huge budget deficit.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U264	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U265	Thank you, honourable Commission waitress. When we talk about single parents, parents raising children alone, we mostly mean women. But would you put yourself in that role? You have two children or one child and you have to raise children alone, you get a minimum wage and you have to go to the local government to ask for help, for example, to get more money for the place fee in kindergarten, more money for children's food money. This 31 euros per month, which is in the hands of a person with a minimum wage, still helps in some way. If there are two parents and both receive a minimum wage, that's quite a lot of money a year. What people have in their hands, 62 euros, is quite a lot of money for some families in a month. How can you cope, and would it be humiliating to go to the local government with your hands long?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U266	Thank you. I don't think people should be put in situations like this. A person has a life. I can't turn myself into a mother, but I've turned myself into a person who's learned from poverty. I have been much poorer than the current recipients of the minimum wage. But this reduction in the case and putting it in this situation is, I think, a bit of a shame, because everyone lives their lives. It is not, as a rule, God when there is a small salary, but it is also the result of certain personal choices, who have learned, who have learned, who have chosen to live, in order not to get into this situation. If fate has really been such that it is not possible to help itself, then it must not be ashamed that the Republic of Estonia will come to the aid. It's not humiliating if you go to the parish for the kids and ask for help. This isn't humiliation. It is the country to help the weak, but not to demand poverty from everyone, including the speaker here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U267	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U268	Thank you. I really know that we did not discuss this in the Commission, but I was just so surprised by this position. It's very nice that you've been able to get out of difficult circumstances. But the attitude that a person is guilty of when he or she earns a small salary, that he or she is guilty and that he or she has to pay a tax equal to the others, was I right to understand that there is no need for more state aid?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U269	No, of course you didn't. I have already heard this Urmas Reinsalu style here today that words and views are attributed to the other side and then criticised. Let's not do this! I said no one can live for another. I can't be poor because I've lived my life differently. In the same way, for objective reasons, who are poor and in a difficult situation, the state will help. But you're not really dealing with poverty here, even though you're talking about it. It is nice to talk about some traps, glass ceilings, and poverty, and then to give [the money] into that fifth decill. So we should be honest about what kind of people it involves and how they cope. Then it must be said whether tax policy is actually an effective social policy. No, he's not, he's not. There's a lot more resources going there. It's comfortable though. Urmas Reinsalu here also says, "Hey, it's humiliating to ask for electricity support, and then [quietly] that we'd better lower the VAT. I'm getting three times as much, I'm so good at it. That's the next sentence he's not going to say. The way it is, if you want state support and you deserve it, ask it. That's how it's built up. After all, children's allowance also goes according to applications or opt-outs. I don't know what this is, but basically it's always been done like this. Grants are intended not to humiliate people, but to help them. I do not agree with the debate you are trying to have here. Don't give me any views!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U270	No further questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U271	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, An hour ago, I did not know that I was coming to the remote, but listening to the presentation, questions and answers of the initiators' representative, I had a feeling that I definitely had to do this. And I will. For what purpose? Here you can get this feeling... I'm not even gonna go to the gym because the things I'm gonna talk about are quite trivial and very well known to you. I am addressing those people who, very possibly, are listening to this broadcast from the Riigikogu Hall. You see, it was only today that the employees of the Development Monitoring Centre were communicating with our group, including a schedule showing us how the 10th decile property is increasing, which means that 10% of the people in Estonian society currently own the circa 60% of everything we have in the country. This dynamic was shown in two years: 2015 and 2017. There are no further statistics for some reason, it can't be shown, but I'm sure it'll grow. It is growing for one very simple reason: over the last hundred years, there have been only two economic systems in an advanced society such as the one in the world today, only two. One is socialism and the other is capitalism. Now, esteemed Social Democrats, we live in capitalism. The difference between these systems is that capital goods belong to the State alone or belong to whomever. And then there's the master, and then there's the rich and the poor. If you think that the purpose of the rich is to take even Bill Gates or some equivalent gentleman is to make the poor richer, then that is not the case. He's got or maybe he's got more money than he can spend a million years with his whole family, but he wants more anyway. There's only one way to do this. Only one way to get the bigger money is to blackmail as much as possible of those who work for you. I'm not agitizing you to move anywhere, we only have parties that meet capitalism, from one side to the next. In this range, to the right of the left wing, we just sometimes have different views as to whether this support should be EUR 200 or EUR 220. And that's gonna be a big argument. We're not looking at the bases, we're not trying, we're not trying to change them. Nobody wants that in this hall. I suppose so. Then the question arises as to how it is possible that there will always be moments that people may or may not look at and admire from the candy or the TV. One squad fights for people, and everyone else fights. I've had experience in this hall since 1999. Almost exactly in half: half the time I have been in opposition and half the time in some coalition. If you're in the coalition, you've got the state budget put together by all the state agencies. We've been working on him here... Can I have an extra three minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U272	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U273	...and he accepted. It looks like an equation where every row that contains numbers is some variable. If you're going to change one row, that means 100 or 1,000 second rows are going to change. This means that it is worth discussing the social problems of pensions, pension benefits, families with many children and so on, and it is worth taking decisions when we adopt the state budget. It's practically the only way. After that, we will not just change one figure somewhere, percentage or euro, but we will change the whole system. Nevertheless, it is the work of the opposition. That's what he does. He's not responsible for the state budget like the coalition. That's the difference. I can be as populist as I want to be when I'm in opposition. I can offer you whatever you want. These ideas will be born after an idea that will ever work. This will be of great benefit, also from what was proposed by the group of initiators of the Socialist Group. But to support them means that all of our plans, all of which are linked to extraordinary pension increases, the amount of support, and so on, we will go after them. Or do you want to attack the medical system? Where can I get these resources? Or are we going after the education system, science? In my time, I was chairman of the Monetary Commission for a few years. That's where I realized that when I worked in the city, when I thought we had 90% of the budget, it wasn't really true. If we're dealing with the state budget, there's more than 95% involved. It has already been put in place over the past few years, and we cannot change anything about it, almost nothing. So I appreciate your, uh, wish to help people. But it's time we made the state budget. I hope this will be something in the near future, but not today. The Centre Party Group is convinced that as much as we did with the state budget that we adopted next year for people who are calling for help was the maximum. At the moment, we do not support the Socialist proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U274	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U275	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, I came back because the argument that the proposal might even make sense, but it's at the wrong time, now it's not the bad guy. As I said in my presentation, the Social Democrats have tabled this amendment to the draft law amending the Income Tax Act over the last six months, as well as, in the case of the state budget, we have tabled an amendment in order to allow for an increase of the tax-free minimum to the minimum wage. This is not a late response or an increase in the proposal to the table after the state budget has been completed. We have tabled this proposal several times over the last six months, and it was possible to take this decision under the budgetary procedure. No party other than the Social Democrats considered it necessary to support this proposal. But I also stress that all the people of Estonia are doing valuable work. Employers and trade unions have agreed on a minimum wage, while a person does eight hours of work, at least EUR 654 is the salary he must receive. It is very reasonable that the increase of EUR 70 will come next year. We cannot say in any way that someone's work is of little value. We value working. We are actually acting in a situation of great income inequality. As Mr Stalnukhin rightly said, the asset inequality has grown rapidly and 10% of the Estonian population owns 60% of the assets. The daily theme is rapid price increases. In such an environment and in such a value-based decision that the contribution of a working person to society is valuable, raising the minimum to a minimum wage is not a populist proposal. This makes sense, it is an effective way and, in the current situation, a necessary proposal, for which it has been possible to take a decision in this Chamber over the last six months and also within the framework of the budgetary procedure. So please support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U276	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission has proposed to reject draft 465 at first reading. We need to vote this through. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me remind you that we are discussing the draft law amending the Income Tax Act, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group and Riigikogu member Raimond Kaljulaid, 465. I will put to the vote before you a draft proposal from the commission of reference to be rejected at first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U277	54 supported the proposal, with 29 against. The draft has been rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U278	We have clearly reached the Wednesday agenda. Our third item today is the third reading of the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs. I'm opening negotiations. Marek Jürgenson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U279	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! The Code of Criminal Procedure is aligned with the judgment of the European Court of Justice of 2 March this year. In Estonia, the prosecutor's office currently authorises the use of communications data, but the European Court of Justice found that the prosecutor's office cannot be considered as an independent body in this case for the purpose of authorising requests for communications data, and these permits will be issued by the court in accordance with this draft. It also follows from the Court's judgment that the use of communications data in criminal proceedings must always be assessed as to the gravity of the crime and the intensity of the person's intervention in private life. This approach takes account of the case law of the European Court of Justice and is also in line with the European Convention on Human Rights and the Estonian Constitution, which require that the grounds for interference with a person's private life must be foreseeable by law. Thus, the draft allows, with the permission of the court, an inquiry into the communication data listed in paragraphs 2 and 3 of the [Department 1111] of the Electronic Communications Act to be made in the case of a criminal offence in the intelligence directory of the Code of Criminal Procedure and where this is strictly necessary to achieve the purpose of criminal proceedings. The tracking directory includes elements of crime considered by the legislator to be so difficult that their processing is allowed to carry out surveillance activities that are the most damaging to fundamental rights. It is therefore justified to allow requests for communication data for the same crimes. In addition, the draft allows for the search of communication data where the offence is not listed in the tracking directory, but the seriousness or circumstances of the case justify the use of the communication data, and where the request does not unduly prejudice the rights of the person. This means that evidence can also be gathered for crimes that are often committed only by means of communication. The provisions also allow enquiries to be made against victims of crime. These are the important constraints proposed by this bill in the Code of Criminal Procedure. The second reading of this draft was completed in plenary on 16 June this year. Following the completion of the second reading of the bill, the Supreme Court made its decision on 18 June of this year. It found that the general and non-differentiated preventive storage of traffic and location data contained in the Electronic Communications Act, despite the arguments of several Member States, including Estonia, is contrary to European Union law. In summary, the Supreme Court found that the conflict between the Electronic Communications Act and the Code of Criminal Procedure in European Union law means that communication data cannot be retained for the purposes of criminal proceedings. Indeed, this draft does not solve this problem either. However, after the Supreme Court's decision, there have been numerous consultations with security experts, as well as representatives of the Supreme Court and other relevant institutions. Following the meetings, it has been understood that for the purposes of criminal proceedings, the court may, with the permission of the court, request information concerning communications which the liaison company has regardless of the obligation to maintain the electronic communications law. For example, communications companies also process communications data for commercial purposes and for the purpose of complying with communication service requirements and quality principles. Therefore, according to the judgment of the Supreme Court and the case-law of the Court of Justice cited there, the request provided for in § 90 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure can only ask for the data that the communications undertaking has, regardless of the obligation to maintain the electronic communications law. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U280	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U281	This must be borne in mind by those applying the law until the regulation of the retention of communications data is brought into line with the judgment of the Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court of 18 June 2021. The corresponding draft is being drawn up by the Ministry of Justice at this time, the draft is already under preparation. Pursuant to § 110 (2) of the Law and Rules of Procedure Act of the Riigikogu, the Legal Affairs Committee prepared an explanatory memorandum for the third reading of this draft, which also explained how to apply the bill 392 when it was adopted as a law in accordance with the Supreme Court's decision until the regulation on the retention of communications data was amended. To conclude, if there are no requests for communication data, there is a very important tool missing in the detection of serious crime, and the crimes that require requests for communication data may be completely undetected. On behalf of the central group, I ask for this draft to be supported, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U282	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote. Honourable Riigikogu! I would point out that Bill 392 requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu. I am voting on the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, as initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs, 392. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U283	With the result of 56 and 1 adopted, the draft was supported and passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U284	Our fourth item is the second reading of draft law 479 on the ratification of the Treaty amending the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please present a speech chair for a member of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Finance Committee Dmitri Dmitriyev. Excuse me, member! I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U285	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The preparation of the draft for the second reading took place in the Riigikogu Finance Committee on Monday, 6 December. No amendments to the draft were received within the specified deadline. The Commission has taken the following decisions by consensus: to propose a draft to be placed on the plenary agenda by 15 December, to propose the termination of the second reading and to hold a final vote on the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U286	There's no questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U287	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft ratifys the Treaty amending the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism. The content of the proposal is the extension of the mandate of the European Stability Mechanism. It is part of a broader package to strengthen Europe's economic and monetary union and to move forward with the building of a banking union. It also has a longer background. When the global financial crisis took place in 2008 and 2009, it was quite severe and the euro area debt crisis followed. This crisis highlighted the shortcomings of the euro area, our monetary union. I recognise that it was not until the crisis that a joint resolution was created. The experience of the crisis was that, acting separately, Member States were unable to stabilise the financial system. There was a real risk that some Member States might fail in their solvency and that the credibility of the single currency of the euro would be the result. Several euro area countries lost market confidence, were unable to finance themselves and needed external assistance. At the time, we also had discussions here. I remember working in that composition, too. As a quicker solution, the European Financial Stability Fund (EFSF) was established, based on national guarantees, and then as a permanent solution a European Stability Mechanism (ESM), whose capital structure was made up of contributions. At that time, it was already apparent that the problems of euro area countries in difficulties during the crisis were in many cases due to the banking system and the financial sector. The bank recapitalisation tool also existed among the ESM support instruments. For example, Spain used it in 2012. There was also a direct recapitalisation measure for banks in 2014, for high-debt countries. A longer-term venture was, as we know, the creation of a Banking Union. The Banking Union will bring EU cross-border, systemically important banks under supervision and resolution to a cross-border level so that potential banking problems [are] not stable in the Member State's finances or vice versa. Since autumn 2014, the supervision of systemically important banks in the euro area has gone under uniform supervision... I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U288	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U289	In... and 2016 resolution under the single resolution. Since 2016, banks' payments have collected funds into the Single Resolution Fund of the Banking Union. At the euro area summit in 2018, it was decided that the ESM could offer support loans to this fund as a safeguard measure in the event of a major crisis. Thus, the reform of the ESM, this reform, and the need for a review of the measures were the result of the development of the Banking Union. The content of this draft and the amendment of this agreement is the reform of the ESM and the extension of the mandate. I also remember, I looked at the home page of the Eurogroup, a press release was also made in June 2019 that the Eurogroup agreed on a budgetary support instrument for the euro area and a revised Treaty for the European Stability Mechanism. If you remember, the finance minister's briefcase belonged to the EKRE at the time. This thing was blown up to the national audience here, but the documents do not even show that Estonia had a different opinion or a special clause. Really, in ELAK, I remember, there was a paper with an asterisk under the line, that Estonia had some clause, but it also disappeared later. Currently, there are no indications on the Eurogroup website that Estonia has had any problems with this. I would also like to say that there was also a big debate when we discussed the topics of EFSF and ESM here a couple of years ago, ten years ago, there was also a big debate that Estonia would take the huge guarantees and that these guarantees would soon be in place, and then we would all be poorer. Over the course of ten years, the ESM has been very successful in financing its assistance, its support programmes, which have been needed. The ESM has received a very favourable loan in order to pass it on to countries in need. The aid loans were accompanied by programmes and have been effective and have now ended. So the risks of the euro area have been mitigated by this. I would also like to say that the current bank measure, which will be created, is now the last line, so to speak, which will only be operational once the previous lines of defence have fallen. As I said before, in the Banking Union, a resolution fund has been set up for resolution from bank contributions. But even before this resolution fund starts lending to distressed banks, bank owners and creditors must have borne their costs and, indeed, the resolution fund collected from banks' own payments must be exhausted. So this is the last line of defense. The cross-cutting principle is that the reform of the ESM is also a fundamental principle in order to minimise the need to use taxpayers' money to stabilise banking. Indeed, finally, there is a need for joint efforts by the euro area Member States to mitigate the risks, as as a rule, major crises affect all Member States to a lesser or greater extent. Thank you for your attention. The Reform Party Group will certainly support this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U290	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U291	I am forced to come to this remote control now because the honourable speaker, Aivar Sõerd, gave an assessment of the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism and of the circumstances relating to its adoption and approval. There was a reference from him to the fact that there was no document from the EKRE government that stated that EKRE had opposed it. I have to say, good Aivar, it's a ludicrous lie you said in the remote a little while ago. When these matters were dealt with in the Committee on European Union Affairs, the entire composition of the EKRE was opposed to the same procedure and approval. There is no point in coming to the remote and dealing with the EKRE when EKRE has been against it all along. That's a lie, good Aivar. We stick to these things. Since we are already talking about the Committee on European Union Affairs, the representatives of the EKRE are absolutely against all the directives of the European Union that are being imposed on us today. The question is very simple. Estonia is a parliamentary state and a one-chamber state. Today, the second Chamber of the Parliament of the Commission of the European Union has been artificially created here, on the basis of a mandate. You can't afford that kind of thing. It is not possible, in the sense of our constitution, that the right to resolve important issues is granted to some sort of committee, but not to Parliament. Do you understand? This is a total violation of the Constitution. Don't tell me there's no sign. The EKRE has always opposed these European Union directives and the Treaties establishing a stability mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U292	Aivar Sõerd wants a reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U293	Thank you. Since the previous speaker here mentioned me, of course, I have to sort this out a little bit. Look, what I was talking about, and what I had to talk about, were decisions taken at the level of European Union finance ministers. The fact that the EKRE voted one way or the other here in the Committee on European Union Affairs is a national game, but the way the finance ministers decided in the Eurogroup is a completely different issue. So the previous speaker got things all mixed up hopelessly, but since he spoke so keenly on this subject, I conclude that my point went to the right place.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U294	I'm closing the negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote. Honourable Riigikogu! This bill also requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu. I am voting on the draft Act on the ratification of the Treaty amending the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 479. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U295	For 58, against 18. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U296	The fifth item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Act on the ratification and implementation of the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. No requests, I'll close the negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote. Here, too, we have the necessary majority of membership. Since we have just had a vote and I have not seen anyone leave the hall, I think we can go to the vote. Thank you! I am voting on the draft law amending the Act on the ratification and implementation of the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 480. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U297	57 in favour and 18. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U298	Our sixth item on the agenda is the third reading of bill 378 of amendments to the planning law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. I'm opening negotiations. Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U299	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill came to third reading and was adopted on the 8th day of this month. Then I put forward the Commission's proposal to send it to third reading in this very remote area. At the moment, I am on the board as a representative of our Conservative Group, and I must say or say that the current planning law, which we are now improving, was drawn up in the period from 2008 to 2013 as a result of the codification of planning and construction law. Its aim was to systematise and organize the rules on planning rights. This law was practically implemented in 2015 and a number of problems have now been identified which call into question the achievement of the above objectives. In fact, the problems are that there are no clear definitions of regulation, a reduction in the speed of planning and an increase in the volume of written information, problems are in the planning process and the issue of design conditions to ensure the rights and substantive inclusion of persons, because instead of inclusion, there is a declaration of circumvention of planning obligations, in practice there is no obligation to undertake detailed planning and this is leading to a change in the overall planning of the project terms which cannot be expressed as a popular complaint. It has also created a favourable ground for corruption in more expensive local governments. There's a number of other problems I'm not even gonna count them all. Essentially, the issues which do not appear in this draft need to be resolved. I have also said before that, after the abolition of rural governments, we have a total vacuum at regional planning level. There is a lack of structure and funding for planning and regional organisation. There is a lack of substantive discussion around the topic of regional or regional planning. There is a lack of discussion on how to ensure, in practice, substantive regional policy and the promotion of local investment through planning and planning. And so on and so forth. As a result, our group believes that the adoption of this law is a mistake, it is still necessary to go to a new law. I hereby propose that the draft be rejected.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U300	Well, at third reading, the draft cannot be rejected, it can be voted against. [[A voice from the hall.]] Yeah. But we can immediately allow every member of the Riigikogu to choose their own button. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the planning law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 378. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U301	For 59, against 12. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U302	The seventh item is the third reading of draft law 413 on the amendment of the pharmaceutical law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. Can we go to the vote? [[Voices from the floor.]] Thank you! I am voting on the amendment of the pharmaceutical law initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in this connection, on the draft law amending other laws 413. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U303	For 65, against 2. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U304	Our eighth item is the draft law amending the State Assets Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 421. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote at third reading. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. I'm closing the negotiations. I think we can go to the vote. Thank you! I am voting on the draft law amending the State Assets Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 421. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U305	In favour of 72, no one was against or impartial. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U306	The ninth item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Port Act, the Maritime Safety Act and the State Fees Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The commission proposes a final vote. Can we do that? Thank you! I vote on the draft law amending the Port Act, the Maritime Safety Act and the State Fees Act, as initiated by the Government of the Republic, 425. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U307	In favour of 71, no one is against or impartial. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U308	We move to the 10th item, which is the second reading of the draft Act 481 on the ratification of the Treaty amending the Treaty on the Transfer and Sharing of Contributions to the Single Resolution Fund initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Dmitri Dmitriyev, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U309	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, 481 SE is the third draft of the ESM reform package, which is on today's agenda. The Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu has discussed this draft. No amendments to the draft were received by 6 December, within the deadline set. The Commission has taken the following decisions by consensus: to propose a draft to be placed on the plenary agenda by 15 December, to propose the termination of the second reading and to hold a final vote on the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U310	There's no questions. Thank you! The Governing Commission has proposed a final vote on this draft. However, the Board of the Riigikogu has received the proposal of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia to interrupt draft 481 [second reading]. Before we can go to the proposal of the lead committee, we need to vote through the EER proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, Before we go to the EKRE proposal, I have to ask if anyone would like to speak during the negotiations. No, I don't. I'm closing the negotiations. I would also like to point out that we need to have two votes in a row. First we are discussing whether we support the proposal of the Conservative People's Party Group to interrupt [second reading], and then we will go straight to the final vote on the draft if we do not interrupt [reading]. If we abort, we won't vote again. Okay. I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to interrupt the second reading of the draft Act 481 on the ratification of the Treaty amending the Treaty on the Transfer and Sharing of Contributions to the Single Resolution Fund initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U311	The breakout was 11 against 57. The proposal was not supported. I now propose to you a final vote on the draft Act 481 on the ratification of the Treaty amending the Treaty on the Transfer and Sharing of Contributions to the Single Resolution Fund initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U312	For 57, against 11. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U313	The eleventh item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please waitress Urve Tiidus, member of the Legal Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U314	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Advisor to the Committee on Legal Affairs! The preparation of the draft law supplementing the Police and Border Guard Act for the second and third reading took place in the Committee on Legal Affairs on 6 and 7 December. Supplementing the law is necessary in order to extend for a longer period the restrictions on access to information reflecting the way in which data are processed in the police database, technological solutions and security measures. At present, this deadline is regulated by the Public Information Act. The solution proposed in the draft will help the police to better protect the information needed in the fight against crime. I stress that this is not personal data. The deadline for amendments was 3 November, no amendments were tabled. The Committee on Legal Affairs itself tabled one amendment to make the implementing provision relating to access restrictions even more comprehensible. In particular, the words "before the entry into force of this section" make the possibility of retroactive application more clear. Kertu Nurmsalu, Legal Adviser to the Ministry of the Interior, who attended the meeting of the Commission, agreed that the words to be added would increase legal clarity. It was further clarified to the members of the Commission that the draft concerns the POLIS subsystem KAIRI of the database. It contains documents on the structure of the information system, the organisation and labelling of the right of access and the internal structure of the police. On 6 December, the Committee on Legal Affairs decided to take full account of this amendment. In addition, it was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 13 December, to propose that the second reading be closed and, when the second reading is closed, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and that the final vote be taken on 15 December. The following day, 7 December, the Committee on Legal Affairs returned to its procedural decisions. It was decided that the date for discussion in plenary should be changed to 15 December, i.e. today, and when the second reading is closed, it is proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and the final vote be held on 12 January next year. These proposals were in favour of 4, 2 against and 1 abstention. That had made all the decisions. I ask you to support the decisions of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U315	Thank you very much. Good waitress, no questions. Thank you! Okay, I'm opening negotiations. Paul Woodland, please! Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U316	Ladies and gentlemen, Good people! I have always stood before the dilemma that when a draft is presented to us, whether it is large, whether it is short, long or thick, and this draft itself does not contain anything that is important to us or, at least, understandable to us, and if the draft itself has its own content, well, let us say, hidden the explanatory memorandum, as it may be in full compliance with the Constitution and the constitutional requirements. We have quite clearly come to the conclusion that if the law by its very nature is incomprehensible and unable to meet the objective, it is, in any case, contrary to the Constitution. This draft law, the Police and Border Guard Act 408 of which we are at second reading, I am pleased to discuss with you and highlight a number of nuances on which the Estonian Conservative People's Party disagrees with this draft. This is in itself a very short law. We do not have to say that the law must be long, because the law as a measure of nature is, in fact, a measure of will; it is necessary for someone. As Olof Palme said, politics is the will. But with this bill, I'd rather notice Otto von Bismarck saying that politics is not an exact science. Of course, he's not an exact science. As I said before, there are a few rules here, but all the fat, all the meat is actually in the explanatory notes. Yeah, a short law, like I said, somebody needs it, someone's will they have to characterize. It was hard to understand. In fact, it was difficult to understand this in the Commission as well. When our ladies and gentlemen from the National Conservatory came to explain this to our group, it was difficult to understand where it was going and why it was necessary at all. It is not, in fact, that we are dealing with legislation here in order to make things darker, more complex, more incomprehensible. We still need to find out why he is needed, whether he is relevant, whether he is constitutional, whether he is justified or not. No matter how carefully we examined this matter in our group, we did not find it. We didn't find that need. So, what's this about? Let's take these changes, the same three unfortunate norm, or two norms and one separate paragraph, § 119. First of all, the objective we find, as I said in the explanatory memorandum, is actually to clarify the procedure for the police database. Thus, § 8 of the Police and Border Guard Act states that the police database is a database where data relating to law enforcement and criminal proceedings are processed. It is now supplemented by two norms, paragraphs 6 and 7. First of all, paragraph 6 states this: "Information reflecting the manner in which data are processed, technological solutions and security measures in the police database is information intended for internal use within the meaning of the Public Information Act. " Very nice. However, good friends, there is already Article 4 (5) of the Police and Border Guard Act, which speaks of the protection of state security and which says that the structure of the information security arrangements is information intended for internal use within the meaning of the Public Information Act. The circumstances covered, the processing of personal data, are also addressed in Section 5 of the Act, which covers a large number of necessary positions. The Public Information Act also contains § 35 in its numerous paragraphs, § 35 and 39 in which this issue is addressed. What I want to say is that it seems to us, and we perceive it very clearly, that these standards, which have been introduced here as an addition, are not really necessary. And why they're necessary, I'm sure you don't understand at first. But now let's look at the next paragraph or the next rule that comes in, that's paragraph 7. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U317	Do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U318	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U319	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U320	It states that for the information referred to in subsection 6 of this section, the Director-General of the Police and Border Guard Board may extend the deadline of 30 years. That's where the little bony came out! When we are talking about the deadlines relating to the five-year cycle, the five-year lag, now suddenly it has been extended to 30 years. Manhood is counted for 20 years, it's one and a half generations. The question arises that, for some reason, certain activities have been very much wanted to be classified. The reasons for this do not even come out of the explanatory memorandum. Paragraph 119[19], which is added, concerns access. This is actually in the sense of a necessary norm, if the previous paragraph were necessary, but, as we understand, it is not necessary, it is not justified. This paragraph states that under the conditions set out in paragraph 7, and these conditions can be extended for a period of 30 years, but conditions are, of course, determined by the Director-General. This shows that our society is basically moving in the wrong direction. Since our party has not received any answers to these questions from this Riigikogu either in committee or otherwise, as I said earlier, ladies and gentlemen, we have made a statement not to proceed with this draft, which has been submitted to the Bureau in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U321	Indeed, such a proposal has come. However, before we go to this proposal, we also need to examine one amendment that has been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and which it has fully taken into account. That's what we've approved. Okay. Now, indeed, the EKRE's wish to interrupt the second reading has been received. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U322	The proposal was supported by 13, with 50 against. The proposal was not supported. We have completed the second reading of the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act 408.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U323	The 12th item on the agenda is the draft law on the Penal Code and the Amendment of Family Law (amending the Age of Sexual Self-Determination and Marriage) 478 initiated by the Government of the Republic. We are in the middle of a first reading and a speech chair is expected to be presented by Minister of Justice Maris Lauri. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U324	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The purpose of this bill is to protect minors from sexual activity by adults. No one doubts that children need additional protection from sexual experiences that may harm them. There are, of course, a number of ways to do this, and all these necessary activities should be carried out. It starts with information and clarification work for both minors and adults, the existence of different safety lines, advice and other things. Punishment for prohibited and unlawful acts is part of all child protection activities. The amendments to the Penal Code proposed in the draft act are therefore one and, in my opinion, a small part of the activities that are necessary, but these changes have undoubtedly restrictive effects on the activities of certain people and are therefore justified. This draft amends the Penal Code and the Family Law. According to the draft, the current age limit for sexual self-determination since 1992 will be raised from 14 to 16 years. At the same time, the changes have been made in such a way that young people's relationships and normal relationships are not criminalised. The draft introduces the so-called Romeo and Julia clause that the sexual relationship of a young adult with a minor aged 14 to 15 is not punishable if the age difference is up to five years. Perhaps consensual sexual relations with 14-year-olds up to 19 years of age and 15-year-olds up to 20 years of age are allowed. No limitation shall be imposed from the age of 16. Since 2013, sexual intercourse or other sexual activity is prohibited by exercising influence, which means that it is prohibited for an adult to engage in sexual intercourse with a minor or any other act of sexual nature, taking advantage of the child's dependence on him or through abuse of his or her influence or trust in the child. This act does not require violence or coercion. Also, the victim does not need to be in a state where he or she does not understand what has happened or is simply unable to resist. On the contrary, an initiative may even come from a child, but an adult is punishable. The reason is, however, that there is a relationship of trust between a child and an adult, such as a family friend, a support person, a counselor or a clergyman, or an addiction relationship involving a family member, including a foster parent, a guardian, a babysitter, or a power or authority, such as a teacher, a trainer, an idol, or another famous person. In these cases, not only sex but also any other sexual activity with a child under the age of 18 is prohibited, even if the child is willing to do so. This act shall be punishable by imprisonment of up to eight years. Life has shown that understanding the abuse of a relationship of trust is, unfortunately, difficult to understand for many adults. It needs more clarification, but it also seems that certain clearer legal limits are needed. The permissibility of the age line of sexual self-determination, as well as the relationships between young people, has been regulated in very different ways. This draft also compared practices in other countries and changes in recent years, but also discussed the various other proposals received during the process of inclusion. In addition to changing the age line, this draft amends somewhat the penalty rates and the content of the penalties. In order to protect children from sexual abuse, § 145 of the Penal Code (sex or other sexual acts of childhood) raises the penalty rate. If the child is younger than 14 years of age, the bill allows the perpetrator to be punished by imprisonment of up to eight years. According to the law currently in force, it is up to five years. The penalty rate of § 1451 (buying sex underage) will also be raised: if the child is younger than 14 years of age, from five to eight years of imprisonment. As the draft raises the age limit for sexual self-determination from 14 to 16 years, the concept of childhood is also given new content in the sexual crime chapter. As a general rule, a person under 16 years of age is subsequently considered to be of child's age. Changes are also made to § 1781 and § 179, which raise the victim's age from 14 to 16 years. In the case of sexual seduction of a child, the age limit for acts committed by an adult person shall be 16 years and the composition shall not be fulfilled if the age difference between an adult and a person aged 14 to 16 does not exceed five years. Like the amendment described above, the aim here is to protect children from sexual abuse, but not to interfere in normal communication between the same people. There will then be changes relating to the creation of pornographic material, but this only concerns the material created voluntarily and used only by the parties involved. If a third party is already joining, this means that this is a non-authorised act. In order to prevent the handling of material created in the context of voluntary and age-appropriate communication as a punishable act, the elements of the crime shall be accompanied by an exclusion and an age difference of five years. Otherwise, there may be a situation that exists in the current law where, for example, 17 years of age and 18 years of age may have intercourse, but the recording of such intercourse or the sending of pictures by a 17-year-old to his partner would be punishable as a criminal offence. And then there's another change about getting married. Having received feedback from the coordination circle, the draft repeals the exceptional marriages contained in the family law, as this change is directly related to raising the age limit for sexual self-determination. At present, marriages are possible in exceptional circumstances for 15 years. From now on, only adults, or 18 years of age, can get married. The reason for this change must be that society had in the past such a view that marriage was permissible on the grounds that society had a very negative view of the birth of a child outside of marriage. We can now talk about the fact that such a justification has essentially fallen away because the vast majority of children are born outside registered partnerships in Estonia. Family life is also acceptable for people under the age of 18, but it cannot be registered as a marriage until adulthood is reached. In a sense, it eliminates emotional decisions and ensures that the cohabitation you conclude is better considered by young people. Finally, the fact that lower marriages, even extraordinary ones, are seen in the outside world as child marriages cannot be completely excluded. That's all for me. I'm ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U325	Well, good minister, it seems there are no questions. Thank you very much. The chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Marek Jürgenson, will co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U326	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! The preparation of this draft for the first reading took place on 23 November this year. The members of the Commission were Marek Jürgenson, Sulev Kannimäe, Jaanus Karilaid, Uno Kaskpeit, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Heljo Pikhof, Anti Poolamets and Vilja Toomast. As the good minister gave us a comprehensive overview here today, so he did in the Commission. I guess the subject is topical in itself. Due to activities or events that went through the media some time ago, the members of the Commission also had some questions for the Minister. For example, Vilja Thomas asked to specify when the creation of pornographic material was a crime and when was not. He also asked if a married adult was 16 or 18 years old. As is the case here today, Minister Maris Lauri replied that a married adult is 18 years old. In addition, Markus Kärner explained the issue of child pornography from the Ministry of Justice. While at the moment any handling of child pornography by anyone is a crime, in the case of erotics, any material relating to a person under 14 years of age is prohibited. He also explained that the draft should rule out a situation where two people may have intercourse, but it should not be recorded. This draft introduces new clauses as exclusionary circumstances, i.e. if certain criteria are met, it is not child pornography. These criteria include volunteering, comprehension, mutual trust, and the fact that the recording has in any case been made for its own use. If one party is a minor, the age difference may be up to five years. However, if the adult party does something with the materials produced that has not been agreed at the outset, for example, distributes them, then the offence has been completed and can also be held accountable. Markus Kärner also pointed out that if a person of 16 years of age can have intercourse with any person of any age in a sexual self-determination clause, the rule of five years of age applies to child pornography until he or she reaches the age of adulthood. Tarmo Kruusimäe asked how the changes were made in proportion to the rest of the legal system and considered it important to take the law seriously. Maris Lauri replied that the legislator was free to make different choices and that decisions could be reviewed if necessary. Next, Heljo Pikhof asked when a child under 10 years of age was considered unintelligible in sexually undertone activities and how children aged 10 to 13 are treated in this case. Markus Kärner again explained that the Penal Code should not be a textbook of conduct, but should reflect clear and understandable values of society. The limit of comprehension remained unchanged, but this does not mean that a child over 10 years of age is immediately discernible. In the case of children over 10 years of age who have not yet reached the age limit, it is necessary to examine on a case-by-case basis whether and how understanding the child is. The limit of understanding remained unchanged, as the changes would have criminalised the relationship between children. He also stressed that the purpose of this bill was to protect children from sex offenders. As I said earlier, the Minister gave a thorough overview and therefore no further questions were raised in the Commission. We made procedural decisions on this: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda today, 15 December, that all the participants were in consensus, that the first reading should be closed, that there was a consensus, that the deadline for amendments should be set at 4 p.m. on 30 December 2021, that there was a consensus, and that the chair of the commission of directors, Mr Jürgenson, would be appointed, and there was a consensus here too. So thank you! We hope that you will support the progress of this draft in the following readings.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U327	Chairman of the committee, the members of the Riigikogu have no questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. First of all, on behalf of the Social Democrats, Heljo Pikhof. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U328	Thank you, Mr President. Good fellows! We go back 30 years in history first. No one can remember exactly where the sexual self-determination clause for 14-year-olds appeared in our laws in 1992. However, a hindsight is of little use. All of us, the legislators, the government and society as a whole, must do our utmost to fight evil. The raising of the age line has been discussed on several occasions, especially on the initiative of the Child Protection League, also in the Riigikogu in 2011 and 2013, until this debate gradually dimmed. Unfortunately, a series of ugliness with teenagers had to surface, or reach the media, before we understood the seriousness of the problem. It is good that both coalition and opposition parties have agreed today that minors must be better protected from sexual abuse. The Social Democrats have submitted a draft amending the Penal Code to the proceedings of the Riigikogu. Our proposal has been discussed both in the Committee on Legal Affairs and in this large Chamber. Like the government's bill, our amendment to the law provides for an increase in sexual self-determination from the age of 14 to the age of 16 and other related changes. According to the current Penal Code, entering the sexual link of an adult is punishable by up to five years of imprisonment with a person under 14 years of age. Well, if we were to raise the age of sexual self-determination to 16 years of age, as both we and the government suggest, we would get a bird's letter, but yet it is only one aspect of the whole highly sensitive topic. So that we don't raise more criminals, we've been arguing the buffer area for today. Now, when it comes to this buffer area, the Social Democrats consider it important that, in comparison with the current law, a distinction be made between young adults and young people in order to allow sexual relations with minors. This is the so-called Romeo and Julia clause, under which the sexual relationship of a young adult with a minor of 14 to 15 years is not punishable if they are less than five years of age. Consensual sexual relations with 14-year-olds up to 19 years of age and 15-year-olds up to 20 years of age would be allowed. No limitation shall be imposed from the age of 16. After all, the main objective here is to protect minors from sexual abuse committed by adults, not to criminalise voluntary age-appropriate relationships between young people. Intimacy between peers, which takes place with mutual consent and security, must certainly not be disgraced. After all, we must be concerned about insecure and inexperienced youths who can be abused by an adult. The Social Democrats hope that this time we will come to working solutions with goodwill and consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U329	On behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, Henn Põlluaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U330	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally! At last, this bill, which is extremely reasonable, has come to us here in the Riigikogu. I am absolutely convinced and confident that our society will gladly accept and approve of this, of course, a normal part of our society. It has been said before that this 14-year limit is absolutely incomprehensible. The Conservative People's Party has repeatedly taken up this issue, unfortunately without consequence, but for our great joy it has still come to us here in the Riigikogu. Are all the points as we have been put before us quite justified? For example, sexual intercourse between 14 and 19-year-olds. In all laws and principles, an 18-year-old person is considered to be an adult; he has the right to elect a Riigikogu; he is fully functional in all respects, but it turns out that he is not yet an adult from the point of view of sexual behaviour, and 19-year-old does not bear the same responsibility as the rest of the adults. So here's what to think about, there's something you can still fix, but we'll get there. I would like to highlight one more moment here. The Estonian Conservative People's Party has also submitted a bill to the Riigikogu to punish pedophiles, which raises the penalties imposed on them for mocking children. This bill does not concern this. Unfortunately, the draft amendment to raise the paedophile punishment has been rejected earlier by the Riigikogu. I think that in a situation where this issue of the age of sexual self-determination is in the process of being changed, we should also review the issue of paedophile penalties. Because let's face it, they're pretty ridiculously small. If we change it now, it's probably not going to change the paedophile behavior very much. However, as a preventive instrument, it would be very good to raise these penalties. After all, we can give quite a few examples here in the coming years, because unfortunately we still have and have such perverted characters in society. I do call on our Riigikogu, our political groups, also the Minister of Justice and the Ministry to take the issue of paedophile punishment with all seriousness and to proceed with it in agreement. I am sure that this law will be unanimously approved by the Riigikogu and hopefully this will also be the subject I raised here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-15_U331	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 478. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 4 p.m. on 30 December. Ladies and gentlemen, We have successfully exhausted yesterday and today's agenda. I wish you a lovely evening. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00. The sitting is adjourned.
