ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Dear President of the Republic of Estonia, Kersti Kaljulaid and his wife! Mr Alar Karis, the wife of the elected President. President Arnold Rüütel! President Toomas Hendrik Ilves! Madam Prime Minister! Ministers, Excellencys, guests, ladies and gentlemen! I will open the Monday session of the 4th working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu. We will begin the ceremony of the President of the Republic of Estonia. Mr Kersti Kaljulaid, President of the Republic of Estonia, I would like to ask you to attend the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U2	Mr President Rüütel, President Ilves, elected President Karis, President of the Riigikogu, members of [the Riigikogu], Prime Minister, representatives of constitutional institutions, ambassadors! For the fifth time, the newly elected President takes office in Estonia that has restored independence. It's September 1st. Alar Karis is given the opportunity today to take a fresh look at Estonia's life, a new President's look. Parliamentary Estonia relies on the head of state with its limited power. He's the one who needs to tell all of us where we're coming from and where we're going. That's what the people expect of him. Parliamentary Estonia trusts its Head of State to supervise the meaning and provision of the Constitution. This is what the Constitution requires of him. Finally, as President Lennart Meri said in his resignation to the Estonian people: "At first you ask yourself whether you are doing too little. Then you ask yourself if you do too much. When you look around a little bit about what television or radio or press said, it seemed like they always had reproaches, no matter what, as long as there was a complaint. Strangely enough, you get used to it slowly. You get used to hearing your voice, seeing your eyes, feeling your support, trust and love." With these beautiful, universal words, I wish strength to Alar Karis in his new post! Each of us can decorated this role in the way he considers it right, and the era given to him by destiny will determine. Only the liberal democratic values described in the Constitution and the confidence of the people can be relied upon. But can there be even greater support than the framework of our values in the Constitution? Or a stronger mandate than the trust of the people? I can't. And that is the power of the President of the Republic of Estonia. Five years ago, I took the oath of office here: to act in accordance with the provision of our Constitution. Five years ago, I promised my people: I will never be silent when it comes to our security, our freedoms are at risk, or we are being harmed to the weak. I promised to act in accordance with the spirit of the Constitution. The Constitution of the Republic of Estonia is very simple and clear. The world around us is changing rapidly and is also challenging the Constitution and its readers at any time. Our constitution, which will be adopted for 30 years next year, has not required any changes to the value space created by the text of the Constitution. This is, if you like, a Western value space. And I am glad that it is in the last five years that we have discussed and found over and over again that this is the value space that speaks most of us. I am very happy that Estonia has remained true to its choices as enshrined in the Constitution in 1992, because only such Estonia can be independent forever. Only such Estonia has friends and allies in the world who unconditionally recognise our right to independent decisions. Only such a value space allows every Estonian person, regardless of gender, orientation or nationality, to carry out his or her dreams. Only such a value space protects our language and culture, because only in such Estonia are our young people willing to live. We have a great many complex choices ahead of us, linked to the green turn of the transition to Estonian-language education linked to an ever-changing world. By making these choices decisively, clearly and quickly, working to ensure that no one in this society bears the price of change as an unfairly greater burden than its fair share, we have no better guide than our constitutional values. Things can go bad if and only if we retreat from these values ourselves. The last five years have been filled with intense discussions about these very same values, but I have felt the great support of the Estonian people for our Constitution. Thank you, good people of Estonia! I'll say goodbye to you here and hand over the presidency to Alar Karis. He, like all his predecessors, needs the support of the Estonian people in preserving our values, our language, our culture and our ritual. Good people, you can show your support already this week, please go and choose! Good young ones who have turned 16, be sure to go, too! Show that you care, care about the welfare of our country, because it is the best support you can offer to the Head of State! Good people, don't let it go, otherwise others will decide for you! Together, we stand for being led by people who are guided by our constitutional values. Good Riigikogu, I'll tell you here. And who knows what the future will bring and what roles we could ever meet in this hall again. Good Estonian people, we keep Estonia! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U3	Dear Riigikogu, thank you very much. Thank you, Mr President of the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U4	We will now proceed with the taking of the new President's oath. Elected President Alar Karis, I ask you to come to the speech chair of the Riigikogu and take an oath before the Riigikogu to the people of Estonia. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U5	By taking up the office of President of the Republic, I, Alar Karis, make a solemn promise to defend the Constitution and laws of the Republic of Estonia without vanquishing, to use the power given to me fairly and impartially, and to faithfully perform my duties in behalf of all the people of Estonia and the Republic of Estonia, with all their abilities and best understanding. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U6	I ask everyone to rise to sing the Estonian anthem. [[The anthem of the Republic of Estonia is sung.]] Estonian Philharmonic Chamber Choir and Conductor Tõnu Kaljuste, thank you! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U7	President of the Republic of Estonia Alar Karis, I congratulate you on behalf of the Riigikogu and I would like to ask you to speak to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U8	Good fellow countrymen! Mr President Rüütel, President Ilves, President Kaljulaid! Happy Riigikogu and members of the government, guests! As President of the Republic, I have the honour to say the first words in the most important hall in Estonia. A hundred years ago, there was a lot of construction going on right here. At a time when the Estonian state was just learning to walk, two architectural friends, Herbert Johanson and Eugen Habermann, were suddenly set up in their time as an optimistic and modern courtroom. This, probably the only expressionist and passionate parliament building in the world, had to give special impetus to legislators' thoughts and decisive weight to sentences. I'm sure you know that every word in this hall should be done, effective and appropriate. But it would be slight to say that Parliament is only a collection of speakers. Because Parliament is a body of agreements and compromises, including confrontations. However, in this Chamber, there should be a sense of frustration when there is no hearing or listening to each other when the doors are banging, when the word turns into noise, when there is no substance in the vote and thus the natural framework of the policy is torn apart. Then there will be empty, redundant, or merely spiteful words that, as they accumulate, bury important words. People then think that politics lacks meaning and content. My indispensable tool, too, is a word. Like the ability to listen patiently, to be attentive. Since the second decade of the last century, when the parliament building of Estonians miraculously rose, the principles that have stood in the preambles of all constitutions, despite any twists of Estonian politics, also originate. Our common state, according to these ranks, is founded on freedom, justice and justice, defending inner and external peace, and placing it on present and future generations for their social success and overall benefit. These words are the genetic code of the Estonian state. "To protect inner and external peace" is this instruction, the task of remembering which must be the daily work of all. Only then will all the rest of the Estonian nation and culture be preserved through the ages. Internal peace is not about turning different opinions down, denouncing them or crossing them. The rudeness, the insults are deplorable, and I will not be silent to repeat it again. What I hope to see more is disputes in the Riigikogu and society, debates, defending our own views and listening to others. Whether it is climate and grassroots, energy and tax policy, budget and forestry, or the choices of the European Union and the development of the Defence Forces. There are no taboo issues to debate. Dogmad and state-owned political correctness chain the freedom of thought without which solutions that lead us forward will not be created. Often, composers, actors, artists or writers show the courage of thought that we also need in organising state affairs. Our culture is a defense against darkness, our national self-determination. Viivi Swan's point: culture is not a beauty thing or a pastime; culture is a matter of the life and death of peoples. Culture is a link to reaching another neighbor, a bridge over the rapidity of disagreements. Culture brings together all of our own and different-faced people. In the end, this confused and turbulencey time will also be formulated by the writer, depicting the artist, making the composer sound. Here's a simple suggestion: read, listen and watch Estonian culture. It'll open our horizons up. We recall the number of turnarounds a quarter of a century ago following the idea of Tigger Jump, which took computer classes and schools online to Estonian schools. Or a decision to use an ID card. Even then, there were those who hesitated that the project was expensive and why all of us had this plastic card with a photo. These two examples of the Tiger Jump and the ID-card show the charm and benefits of thinking out of the box and acting. We hope that technology will erase the distances and take the troubles, but it still does not apply to everyone. The last mile is still unstepped and not taken as much as possible from the digital state. Estonia is proud of the success of IT companies, but it sometimes becomes clear that the e-state is something like a patchcake, which in crisis situations tends to tear from where the border runs between authorities, but sometimes also between the state and the private sector. Let us be honest with ourselves, not all people can now say that their daily relationship with the state is based on e-solutions. In addition, its sustainability and security problems are right here, and there is no hope that cyber threats will hurt us. As a pretext, before taking office, I have stressed that my ideal is a wise nation. I have also made it clear that the standard of wisdom and education is not the number of higher education diplomas, but the ability to use and manage their knowledge, to cope with every situation. It's called learning ability. I'm gonna do a detour. The Russian-language kindergartens have free Estonian lessons, but parents can also buy additional lessons, only those children whose mother and father pay for it. Not everyone's got the money. This is how money-dependent inequality begins to develop in kindergarten. This is the first bottleneck to get stuck in the later performance of Russian-speaking children in Estonia, their competitiveness in the labour market, the confidence that they are an equal part of our society. However, if it were simply a bottleneck, it would be solvable. The wise people are able to separate the grains from the narcissists, and they understand, above all, the basic power of the facts. In a society saturated with communication, however, even the worst claims find support and admiration. In the dimness of social media, camping is gathered, and doubts are a force for wisdom. Wisdom remains silent, humble silence can leave us in trouble. Wisdom is a collective achievement. The constitutional organisation of Estonia must ensure that national decisions reflect not the personal opinion of the decision-maker, but the contribution that society as a whole is able to make. Power tends to make us confident, but none of us are as wise as the whole nation. The idea of a constitutional arrangement drives us to become increasingly wiser as a society. The wise people do not allow hope to be lost; they do not follow the rope; they observe and test, they are confident, and they are not afraid of error. A wise nation thinks from a spirit point of view and does not fear meeting an unknown, whether it be a corona apandemia or a global climate crisis. The wise people understand the neighbor, have compassion. This also applies to the attitude of those who find daily economic coping difficult. I continue to believe that Estonia's success story has not reached everyone. And I wish, somewhat idealistically, that none of our countrymen would feel abandoned and redundant. Whether it is because of the mental health problems of young people, the tragic depth of which we sometimes understand too late, or because of the increase in prices that we see in electricity bills and which exacerbates the economic distress of many families. How can we find peace of mind when fighting a pandemic has turned into a crooked 50 - mile [50 km] walk instead of a sprint? When it comes to the feeling that evidence-based medicine is moving forward in the crisis with a timid rooster step, and the decisions that make people's daily lives seem like random raping. Because their reasoning has become helpless. Self - confidence fades where boredom and fear begin. Most of those who wanted to vaccinate themselves in the corona crisis have done so or are about to do so. But everyone doesn't want to and takes the risk of suffering from the disease or infecting others. And in the end, our country is locked down. I have done science and believe in science, a science-based approach to what surrounds us. If a person who has not been vaccinated so far, who is confused, asked my advice, I would, of course, advise him to reconsider and allow himself or his loved one to be injected. In the coming days, I will meet with both the scientific council advising the government and the Minister for Health and Labour to find out what the recommendations of scientists and government plans are at the new climax of the crisis. I'm here as an inclusive but demanding partner. The backbone of the Estonian parliament or, more broadly, the political parties that form our core of internal politics through the elections form the Riigikogu. Such democratic partyism is of great value, which gives many citizens the opportunity to take part in the management of a local government or state. Partyhood is one of the hallmarks of a free society, but I don't choose sides between different parties. Only in this way will I be able to fulfill my oath of office, which I have just given: to exercise the power given to me fairly and impartially. In the presidential election vortex, they said they were looking for a president for the entire nation. This is a goal to pursue, even if it seems unattainable to the end. But let us remember, however, that the President has a role to play in Estonia as a balancer. Therefore, it is not unnecessary to argue what is the most reasonable path to finding a president in modern Estonia. Regardless of the candidates, the last two elections here have led to disappointment and uncertainty. However, we must not create a electoral order that puts so many expectations on the part of the President that there is a need to distort or even violate the Constitution in order to comply with them. Will the direct elections, the elections only be in the electoral body, where the representation of local authorities is increasing, or will everything remain as it is, but the submission of candidates will move forward, earlier? The answer is in your hands, respectable Riigikogu. It is my job to make clear what Parliament's political will is and, if necessary, to present you with a proposal to amend the Constitution. This too is part of the deepening of inner peace in society. Looking long, adapting early to inevitable changes, is also a sign of wisdom. It would be convenient, but it would be deceiving to think that the hot days reached the record this summer were an extraordinary phenomenon. Like the rainstorm that drowned Tartu or the storm that plunged into the darkness of the city of Võru a few years ago. This is not Estonia's originality, but the climate is increasingly showing its temperament everywhere. Our ability to perceive and understand it, to be ready as countries, communities and individual people, has been incomplete. We can talk, and we have to do it, narrowly out of crisis. However, the broader picture shows that we have arrived irreversibly at a time when thinking about the climate and ecosystems will be a part of everything we do, from growing food to providing education and urban planning. The constitutional requirement that everyone is obliged to save the living and natural environment has grown larger than the forests, lakes and underground of Estonia. It's a question of our entire planet's survival. In a globalized world, dry wells in Jõgeva County and Jakarta are equally tangible to us, even though we may not be able to perceive it that way. Like forest fire smoke or invasive alien species, the borders do not need to be kept in the flow of refugees, either due to drought or storms. We look at a world in which not all confrontations are always visible, but hot confrontations are indistinguishable and arrogant, where democratic countries are less than authoritarian, where the measure taken by the great powers has shifted from Europe to the Pacific, where Europe itself sometimes disputes how to proceed. This does not make the step of Estonian external communication and the compass of foreign policy insecure and shaky. We know what we need: a strong and united Europe, firm transatlantic cooperation. Relations and channels of communication with all close and distant neighbours are important to Estonia. It is with all the neighbours, because with some we are talking about joint action in the European Union, with some common defence plans, with some of the rule of law reforms that have proved successful in Estonia and with some of the joint actions to protect the environment of Lake Peipsi, cultural cooperation or modernisation of transport connections. All these stories are important and need to be spoken, because they are part of the Constitution's preamble to our external peace. Today's war doesn't start with a cannonhole. Hybrid conflict, aggression in cyberspace and the conscious division of society are new battlefields and front lines. Therefore, alongside heavy iron, our destiny can be determined by Estonia's good reputation, social cohesion and trust between the people and the state. Protecting the state today starts with ensuring the continuity of society, knowing that everyone is willing to do their part. The Constitution obliges me to take over the authority of the supreme leader of national defence from today. I have no doubt that Estonia has chosen the right path to develop national defence. I know that militia brigades are not just on paper and that all trained and effectively armed men and women are able to operate appropriately. The modern warehouses of the Defence Forces have the necessary equipment. A strong and voluntary desire for protection gives toughness to the Defence League, as well as to the reservists who come to school gatherings, or to graduates who take military service for granted. In difficult situations, Estonia does not have to look for a solution alone; our allies stand firmly beside us. Good relations with allies must be maintained, not born or maintained by themselves. For young people, the Defence Forces have a strong pedagogical role, which has already given the entire generation determination, commitment, and many young people the ability to speak the Estonian language. And an inner sparkle. With this attitude, we can look with dignity upon all those who stood before us, on the fallen battlefield, or on the extreme tribulation suffered, with humiliation and fear. Important symbols were taken from them, which for decades remained only in their dreams or outside Estonia. Thus, at some important moments, we also need a dignified and festive trumpet cry, shiny buttons, and the glory of our festivals. Just like today, when we've met in a hall that's got a plow on the roof with a rash image of a lawfield. Estonia, which restored independence, has had different presidents. Lennart Meri noted the foundations of a modern state, Arnold Rüütel brought the rural people to the European Union and NATO, and Toomas Hendrik Ilves increased Estonia's size through e-Estonia. Kersti Kaljulaid did not remain silent when he felt that the weak were being harmed and brought the subject of domestic violence to the public. All of them have been extremely intelligent in the space offered by the Constitution. I thank them for their dedication and the work they have done with their hearts. I would also like to thank their families for their understanding and support, because without it they could not have been good presidents. As President, I want to be first and foremost a balancer and, if necessary, a mediator. I hope you will understand that as a person from science, I will still tune my thoughts and senses in a knowledge-based sound. This is not only my freedom, but also my duty. What but wisdom for Estonia! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U9	Thank you, Mr President. That concludes the solemn ceremony of the President of the Republic of Estonia. I'll take the manager's break in 30 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U10	Ladies and gentlemen, Despite the festive nature of the day, the Riigikogu works. This also means that the break taken by the President of the Riigikogu is over. The members of the Riigikogu are now able to deliver drafts and questions. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U11	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, I am handing over the draft law amending the Income Tax Act, digitally already granted, according to which the tax-free minimum would rise from next year to a minimum wage, i.e. from EUR 500 to EUR 654. It is very nice that the social partners have agreed on a rapid, vigorous increase in the minimum wage, but in order to actually ensure this goal of subsistence for a very large number of people, the state will also contribute to raising the tax-free minimum. At the time, in 2018, when the reform of the tax-free minimum entered into force, the aim of this amendment was, on the one hand, to ensure the livelihood of the low-wage earners and, on the other hand, to motivate work. That people also have the motivation to keep low-wage jobs and remain in the labour market and to reduce the burden on the social system. If a person is able to secure his or her livelihood with his or her salary, it is all the more reasonable than us to collect it from low-wage earners in the form of income tax and return it as income support. However, in order to better meet these 2018 targets, the income tax-free minimum should be maintained at the same pace as the increase in the minimum wage. Unfortunately, no such proposal has come from the government, and so on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party and Raimond Kaljulaid, I will put forward this draft. And it is very good that both presidents in their speech today touched on this [the subject]. It must be taken into account that the weaker do not carry the burden over, so that no one is unjustly required. This objective is met by a substantial increase in the tax-free minimum. Both analysts and Estonia's recent studies on the minimum wage, the results of a study published by the University of Tartu in August, confirm that, in addition to the increase in the minimum wage and the income tax-free minimum, reduce the risk of poverty and relative poverty, including the gender pay gap, [this also] will help to shift in the desired direction. So the power for our discussions! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U12	There is no further request for referral of drafts or enquiries. I have adopted one draft and, of course, the Bureau will decide how to deal with it in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Now we're conducting a presence check. Requesting presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U13	80 members of the Riigikogu registered. Ladies and gentlemen, [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] The agenda for this week has been distributed to your tables, and now we have come to confirm it. I am voting on the approval of the agenda for the 4th working week of the VI plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U14	79 members of the Riigikogu supported the adoption of the agenda, and there were no respondents and no abstentions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U15	We can go nicely on today's agenda... Hammer too, of course. [[Hammer strike.]] We can go to today's agenda. We have two items on the agenda today. The first is the development plan for culture 2021.2030 and the rapporteur is Anneli Ott, Minister of Culture. But before the Minister of Culture comes to the remote, I will remind you how we will deal with this point. First, Anneli Oti, Minister of Culture, will give a presentation for up to 20 minutes, then the presentation by Heidy Purga, member of the Committee on Culture, will be up to 20 minutes. The members of the Riigikogu can ask each of the rapporteurs an oral question. I will then open negotiations and the members of the Riigikogu, as well as representatives of committees and political groups, may take the floor. If we conclude this debate, we will not take a separate decision. Now, please, Minister of Culture Anneli Ott!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will present you with an overview of the developments in Estonian cultural policy from 2021 to 2023. The government has submitted a plan to the Riigikogu to discuss Estonia's cultural policy goals and trends for the years 2021 to 2030. The development plan has been developed as a result of co-creation, cooperation between several ministries, the State Chancellery, representatives of the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities and experts and representatives in the field of culture. The development plan has also taken into account analyses and studies, expertise, documents at international level, the results of public debates and engagement events and the results of the implementation of the Culture Policy to 2020. When the creation of a new development plan began at the end of 2018, it was found that the new strategy paper could provide a clearer cultural policy vision that would also take into account the proposals of the actors in the field and the ideas and opinions of people who care about the future of Estonian culture. Seminars and development discussions took place under the leadership of the Ministry of Culture, which invited representatives from the public, private and non-public sectors. In addition, a number of meetings were held with representatives of the Ministry of Sectoral Organisations and with other interested parties. In 2019, discussion days were held in all counties. In autumn 2020, meetings were held with representatives from all sectors. As a result of the joint cooperation and everyone's contribution, the vision document Culture 2030 sets out the following sub-objectives: to keep Estonia's cultural life strong and operational and to ensure that Estonian cultural memory is kept and appreciated and culture and creativity are valued in the development of society. They contribute to the big overall goal: Estonian culture is viable, evolving and open to the world, and participation in culture is a natural part of every person's life. But now a little bit more about the points discussed in the development plan. When it comes to cultural policy for the next decade, one of the key issues is what the global crisis has left for our culture and how long it will be sent to the sector. The country has taken a number of steps to mitigate the impact of the crisis on the sector. While in March 2020, the cultural and sporting sectors received a total of EUR 25 million in crisis assistance, an additional budget of EUR 42 million was allocated to the Ministry of Culture in mid-April this year. This is an important support that has enabled working structures and jobs to be maintained. The current crisis has shown us how the various sectors are interrelated, and we therefore point out in the development plan that it is necessary to support cultural institutions, organisations, creative people and businesses in coping with the crisis, in recovering and in adapting to the long-term effects of the crisis. It is certainly important to increase the capacity of the whole cultural sector to prevent, mitigate and manage risks and to prepare for future crises. The crisis has given momentum to change and has raised the issue of digitalisation very significantly. In the development plan "Culture 2030," we see the expansion of Estonian culture and the availability of culture in Estonian on digital platforms as a very important activity. Technology is rapidly evolving, and the cultural sector must go along with change by developing the whole area in a holistic and coordinated manner. We therefore encourage the introduction of new technologies to improve the quality of the creation, preservation and availability of digital culture. We aim to diversify business services and facilitate the new and cross-use of digital content. At the same time, a balance needs to be struck with copyright in order to ensure that the interests of owners are protected. The Ministry of Culture is developing a digital culture strategy that aims to map the situation more closely in the area of accessibility and awareness and to set future goals. Estonia is in a good position to make extensive use of digital and innovative solutions, but it must be supported by a flexible and modern legal space. Traditional employment relationships are rapidly changing with the digital revolution. The share of flexible and temporary forms of work is increasing significantly through digital platforms, and a very large proportion of future jobs are in the cultural and creative sectors. On the basis of the analysis of the economic livelihood of freelance artists and the availability of social guarantees, the Ministry of Culture intends to draft amendments to the Creative Persons and Creative Unions Act. The challenge in the coming years will therefore be to adapt laws to changing labour market needs and to make work more flexible in order to ensure social security for all people working in the cultural sector, regardless of the regularity of their income and the form of their contract. The "Culture 2030" development plan also foresees the need to modernise the creative support system. Hopefully, in the near future, we will be able to find solutions that satisfy all parties by analysing the bottlenecks of the Creative Persons and Creative Unions Act and form them into a draft when it is converted into a law. In the 1980s, Estonia and other European countries, we started to talk more seriously about the creative economy in the world a few decades later. In 2005, Estonia carried out the first mapping and analysis of creative industries, which also sought to formulate the definition of creative industries and define the areas covered by it. Since 2014, the Ministry of Culture has been responsible for developing creative industries. The focus is on improving the export capacity of creative enterprises, encouraging cooperation between creative and other sectors and improving the competitiveness of support structures services. "Culture 2030" aims to develop creative entrepreneurship and to foster closer links between creative industries and other sectors. Culture and creativity are the driving force behind the modern and future economy. The forms of meaning and communication created by culture and the development of the digital age, innovation and the service economy are a major driver. It is important to include the expertise and creativity of cultural and creative areas as competence in the national R &amp; D and innovation system in order to provide innovative solutions to societal challenges. The State will contribute to the development of knowledge and skills of start-up and operating creative enterprises, to the growth of product and service development and innovation capacity, to the development of sustainable business models and to increasing international competitiveness. In recent years, the minimum remuneration of cultural workers has not increased, so it is positive that next year the wage fund for cultural workers receiving public pay will increase by 5%, i.e. EUR 2.8 million. In doing so, the minimum wage will increase from EUR 1300 to EUR 1400. In order to ensure the sustainability of Estonian culture, "Culture 2030" provides for supporting the growth of managers and leaders in the cultural field, valuing their work in society, as well as developing leaders in the cultural field. This is all very strongly linked to income, which is why consistent support for cultural workers must be one of the priorities. Priority must also be given to impressive cultural events reaching smaller areas of Estonia alongside attraction centres. Continuing peripheralisation and urbanisation are seriously undermining the continuity of local cultural life. Culture 2030 aims to develop regional cultural organisation. The availability of cultural space must be ensured regardless of the place where the person lives, as the opportunity to participate in cultural life improves the quality of life, makes the living environment more valuable and supports community activities. In cooperation with local authorities, we support the diversity and quality of the opportunity to participate in culture and help develop solutions that allow flexible working arrangements. In order to increase the availability of culture, we contribute to digitalisation of the cultural field and to technologies and public e-solutions that improve accessibility. However, the participation of children and young people in cultural activities requires particular attention. This is why a positive government step is to launch a cultural pack programme that will enable young people to participate more in the cultural field. Next year, the government will be allocated a million euros, which will take steps to make the future generations even more cultural members of society. Progress has been made in recent years to enable everyone to enjoy cultural life. Nevertheless, in order to increase accessibility, there is a need to move forward vigorously and purposefully, while at the same time broadening the understanding of the concept of accessibility. Because we are not just talking about ramps built in front of the institutions, we are dealing with the topic more widely. As positive examples of recent years, it is worth highlighting Estonian National Broadcasting, which has provided six films with a subtitle translation in Estonian for hearing impaired people. During 2018, both Endla and Ugala theatre performed literary translations in the field of performing arts. For people with visual impairments or other printed texts, more than 5,000 Estonian or foreign-language audio and e-books, newspapers and magazines are available for better participation in the Estonian Dark Library every year and made available to readers in the online library. An excellent example of the comprehensive solutions that we need to take as an example is the permanent exhibition of Fat Margareta, which was thoroughly renovated in 2019 and the Estonian Maritime Museum of Foundation there. It is accessible to people with reduced mobility, vision and hearing, as well as to the elderly and families with children of all ages. A comprehensive concept of accessibility has been created, which means that in addition to the physical accessibility of the building, there is an accessible exposition. In the 2030 Agenda, we foresee that taking into account specific needs and life-cycle changing capabilities is essential for the development of cultural infrastructure, the creation of cultural content and the development of web-based solutions. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Culture 2030 will also support a number of important initiatives towards the European Union, one of which is to contribute to the achievement of climate objectives in the cultural and creative sectors. Environmental issues and how to build a path towards a greener planet are increasingly topical. There must certainly be a contribution from culture here. How to contribute more specifically to reducing environmental impacts, we are currently having a reflection with experts in this area. The overall objective of the Agenda for Culture 2030 is to take account of the European Union's green turns objectives. The organisation of cultural events, the planning of cultural infrastructure and the preservation of heritage must be based on the needs of society in a holistic way. It is therefore important to introduce the principles of environmentally conscious cultural organisation and to support the achievement of the objectives of a green turnaround in the cultural field. To this end, sustainable performance models need to be developed, for example, by broadening the scope for the deployment of cultural buildings. To sum it up. Estonian culture is viable, but it needs the joint care of all of us. We have a clear and strong vision of how we want to see Estonian culture in 2030, and with the joint efforts of all parties, we are able to achieve these goals. I would like to thank everyone who has contributed to the completion of this development plan and has had a heart for the future of Estonian culture. Thank you and good luck to Estonian cultural life! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U17	Good Minister, there are also questions for you. The anti-Semimets will begin.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. It was only here at the beginning of September that the cry of distress came from the Estonian Film Director Guild that, due to planned cuts, we would have basically fallen to the level of the early 1990s. Perhaps, as they said, with the money that was planned, there would be a film of one and a half, which would still mean a heavy fall and the fading of the art of film. Of course, it was very positive that a little bit of their voice was heard, and we have a two - million - million supplement. However, I ask you: do you think this will ensure a normal development in film art at this current level of funding? Movie art is expensive, and I think it has some kind of sub-financing in comparison to other forms of art. How can we maintain quality, especially what we were able to achieve in the framework of the "Estonia 100" funding?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U19	Thank you very much for this question. The film sector is certainly developing very quickly and professionally in Estonia. I fully agree that funding must also catch up with it. We certainly do not want to be left behind, we want to be more competitive. Estonian film is produced in cogeneration, we certainly have foreign partners and foreign partners very closely monitor the capacity of Estonian film funding. The two million that came into the budget is, in my opinion, an important sign that we consider the development of the film to be important, because we are no longer talking about one-off support, but we are talking about basic funding, which gives the Estonian film a better platform for planning its activities in the longer term and also provides a better platform for negotiating with external partners. The construction of the film campus, Tallinn Film Wonderland, must also be added here, which in the same way increases the ability of Estonian film to produce absolutely second category, higher category films and here offer conditions so that films can be produced in Estonia, so that film producers do not have to choose our neighbouring, neighbouring countries. What is also important about film production is that we are certainly talking to a very large extent about the regional dimension, because film production is certainly not capital-centred, but it can reach very, very many sectors of the economy, but also a number of regions, which, at first glance, may not even be imaginable at all. So the regional dimension is certainly also very important for the development of the film sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U20	Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U21	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. I'll continue on the movie. Today we received a letter written by filmmakers. I don't know if you've been able to read it in your busy schedule. There is one important point, namely the third point. They're asking for a movie law, that's what they call it. Since you are aware of this, I am not going to show you in any longer, but I am going to ask you: how do you comment?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U22	Thank you. I think such appeals are very positive. In fact, even during the budget negotiations, during the spring RES [creating] already the film sector, I would say, very professionally concentrated and, in fact, in the public domain, introduced the bottlenecks that exist in the sector. I think that the people of Estonia are now much more aware of how Estonian film production works and what concerns there are. This letter today is, I think, the right step forward. Of course, we need to communicate more with each other and map problems in the field. I cannot tell you exactly how to proceed with these proposals today and whether such a law should be, but we must certainly map out what are still bottlenecks, these bottlenecks, and how we can contribute to the development of the Estonian film. The fact that the sector itself has an initiative may have an impact on this crisis as well. There has been very good cooperation between us, and the message has been made clear. It is certainly also a very important step to ensure that future developments are positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U23	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U24	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! After all, the purpose of this document is to preserve and preserve Estonian culture. That's the main thing, isn't it? I'm gonna ask you a little bit about the show arts. Namely, there are two theatres in Ida-Virumaa, one is Ilmarine in Narva and the other is in Tuuleveski Jõhvi. And the theater theorists, also around the world, have repeatedly said, I have read that language learning is very good when children's performances are in the language they want children to learn. We have such that Ilmarine and Windmill are not bad theatres, but there are almost no performances in Estonian for children. Neither are we in the neighborhood, how to say, a serious theatrical group that plays for adults. How do you see how to solve this? Because we put a lot of resources into language learning, but it could do these things a lot faster. We've tried, but we haven't got anywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U25	Thank you. I myself visited the Ilmar Theatre last Wednesday, and I have not been directly involved with this other theatre. But the subject is familiar and certainly there are some reasons why the theatre's repertoire has been as it is. There are certainly financing problems and how existing funding can be managed. This is indeed a long history of theatre in the region. But we also have additional resources for financing Estonian language learning in this budget. Such activities can actually be supported through the Integration Foundation. This issue has been raised for a moment. I don't know the exact answer today, but I just want to say that we know the subject, too, we've been dealing with it. Hopefully, in the case of the theatres you mentioned, we will find opportunities to give performances where local children who do not speak Estonian as their mother tongue can actually receive language training at the same time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U26	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, It is generally accepted that we get what we measure. Regrettably, the development plan for culture does not stand out with anything positive in addition to the development plans previously discussed in this Chamber. There are 12 metrics on seven that are being developed. This is, in my opinion, a disappointment to Parliament. That's what my question is about. Are you still planning on putting these meters in before the government confirms them? Or is the government based on the principle that we set up metrics once the [objectives] of the development plan have been achieved in 2030?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U28	Thank you. The theme of the surveyors is explained in such a way that these metrics have not been used in the past. We haven't measured where we're going. If we haven't done this before, it's very difficult to write it down. These benchmarks we have, we have brought them here. Those that do not exist, we will be able to enter here during the period of implementation of the development plan. We need to agree on more precise metrics. These metrics cannot be an end in themselves, because cultural organisation and the implementation of culture are the most important thing to do. We do not want to create any additional bureaucracy here, so that cultural organisers need to start providing any more data to map these benchmarks, but we want to measure the objectives of cultural organisation or development plan on the basis of the available data and the success of their implementation. So directly, not all the meters are in here because we do not yet have the targets to start with. But the development plan is more detailed than the previous document. And that is why it has come down to us that we want to start measuring the implementation of the objectives. At the moment, we really do not have the basic material or the initial measurements to start with in all our activities, and that is why these metrics have not yet been included at all points.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U29	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U30	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Good Minister, thank you for this presentation. There are a number of topics to be asked about, from EMTAK codes and their compatibility with real life, to data-based cultural policy in the field of music, but I ask about the added value created in the creative industries sector. This is currently at an initial level of EUR 19600 per employee and wants to reach a target of EUR 25000 by 2030. What programmes and activities do you mean to increase this added value? Or how do you intend to develop it, in the form of specific activities? Do you have any examples?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U31	Thank you for your question. First of all, the development plan is a document that sets exactly the same well-based goals that we want to achieve. And our target is 2030, so we basically have ten years in which we want to achieve these goals. In my speech, I once touched on the subject that we are now mapping the entire system of social guarantees for artists, the functioning of the whole creative sector. I think that, in itself, these objectives may seem ambitious at first. But since the creative sector is really a very fast-growing part of business in the economy, it is increasingly making a significant contribution to the economy, I believe that if, next year, we can also work out these guarantees by the laws of artists, how creative people can contribute so that they do not have to worry every day about basic social guarantees, then surely this contribution will also increase, the capacity to contribute will increase and that percentage will certainly rise. There is no direct discussion of the programmes in this development plan, but this is the platform from which we can start to develop them. As this is a goal, it will certainly support more precise programmes. All specific programmes under the development plan will be developed with these objectives in mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U32	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U33	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you for your presentation. And very nicely, my question about the social guarantees of the creative people is exactly where you just finished. The development plan really sets people's participation in cultural life as the greatest goal, talks a lot about the potential of creative industries, but in the end we have this creative person who writes, creates, guides young people. Is there an understanding in the Ministry of Culture that the lack of social security contributes somehow to the growth of exports, growth and prosperity? Or would the creative sector actually benefit from general health insurance, for example, where monthly incomes and taxes do not depend on whether you are entitled to medical care? In the field of culture, have you considered that intervention of this type with wider social impact would be the most effective way of resolving the concerns of creative people rather than making an additional exception for creative people fulfilling certain criteria?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U34	Thank you. Very correct question, emphasis. I once mentioned in my speech that the Ministry of Culture is currently mapping exactly what these greatest problems are for artists. We intend to come to the Riigikogu at the beginning of next year to have a dialogue on the possibilities for creative people to offer these guarantees. Which way is it? When I came here quickly in the spring with the amendment to the Creative Unions and Creative Persons Act to pay additional benefits during the crisis, thank you for this urgent procedure, already then I said that we will come back with this bill in order to essentially develop this system, how those people who are very important to our cultural life could do their job and deal with the creative work, rather than deal with the problem of constantly disappearing guarantees and need to get them again.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U35	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U36	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. It is clear that the development plan is a declaratory document, but you understand why more and more ambassadors here are asking about concrete measures, about concrete plans, about how we are going to achieve these declaratory objectives. You must have them. You say in a row that we will deal with tomorrow, we will come the day after tomorrow, etc., starting with meters, creative industries, artists, etc. I, too, ask about specific plans concerning access to culture for children and young people or their access to culture. You are, once again, declaratively saying that we will ensure, do, all young people and children will be part of the cultural space. How do you do that? Does this amount of EUR 1 million you promised for the cultural policy programme for 79 municipalities support this objective? What are the specific measures to ensure that all children and young people, regardless of their place of residence and the availability of money, can benefit from culture?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U37	Thank you for that question. I support the idea that it is declarative. The development plan is a very broad document that sets general objectives. According to this development plan, there are a lot of cultural organisers, there are a lot of different sectors. This development plan is not only a working document of the Ministry of Culture, it is a working document of the whole field. This means that you can't write in very detailed terms here, what someone has to do or what kind of program they're going to implement. These programmes arise in the course of meeting the objectives of this development plan. And you mentioned it correctly, yes, one programme is a cultural programme, but there will certainly be more of these programmes. Take, for example, the possibility of closer visits by performing institutions in the [shows] regions. Right now we have the Theater for Earth, but how can we make it even better? These issues have not been resolved within the framework of this development plan, but the objectives of the development plan certainly support us to do so. It's just like the creative thing. These answers are not included in this development plan, but the goals we want to reach over the course of ten years are set out and the programmes need to come up here. Next year, I'll come in front of you and tell you what we've done in a year. Then I must be able to answer what programmes have been launched to achieve these and their objectives. One really is the cultural pack programme, out of 6.9 million we managed to get one million into the budget, but that's a start. This is the first step that gives us the opportunity to launch this program. It actually provides an opportunity to map out this programme, say, viability or necessity. Perhaps next year we will already have additional budgetary resources on it. I cannot say these budgetary negotiating positions, of course, today, but these are the objectives. The Ministry of Culture already went on in the spring with these goals and in the autumn as well. So, in itself, the development plan, as such, must be flexible for all actors in the field who want to apply for grants from different programmes so that the development plan is broad-based in order to reconcile the various activities with it. The narrower we get, the narrower we start telling the area what you can and cannot do. So it's really good. Of course, there must be programmes and they must come, but there must be room for flexibility in this specific development plan so that these same creative artists can approach creatively and look for opportunities.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U38	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U39	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, This cultural development plan sets objectives for the next nine years. And indeed, I agree that there should be general objectives and directions here, but the document should certainly not be declarative. I'm glad to hear what you're saying here is that you devote quite a lot to accessibility. That's what we're talking about in this document. But you pointed out the few places where accessibility has been dealt with, for example, in the showhouses, accessibility has been granted. But my question is how can we move towards the goal in such a way that participation in culture is a natural part for each person, so that you should not read it alone, that you can [participate] here and you can, but we can when we want.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U40	Thank you for that question. Personally, I was very pleased to hear the accessibility study and this concept, which has just been completed. I have actually asked my foreign colleagues this question about how you deal with this issue. And more and more I think we're a little bit ahead of the train. We have such an approach that, in the field of culture, we not only look at special needs, but we really look at life-long needs, to see whether this label is at the right height for the child, to see whether the size of the letter is the right size for the elderly, and to look at all the common everyday obstacles that may not even be seen at the same time. This study brings out these needs and bottlenecks very well, so it is certainly a very good handbook for the cultural field to go on. And really, I've been asking at absolutely every meeting how much people think about it. I have to admit, it's a long way to go, but we have a very good base material on which to start moving on right now. So I believe, indeed, also in our relations with our foreign colleagues, that we are not really tail joggers at all, but rather road indicators.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U41	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. One man, but maybe the woman once said that the desire to create is the deepest pursuit of the human soul. Most cultural life is born when this creativity is given the opportunity to materialise, green tea. Everything that has been done so far in art, music, theatre, etc. can also be an inspiration. It is in childhood and young age that this effect is greatest. Let me ask you a practical question. It's written about this subject. Do the volume and choice of digitisation over the next few years take into account the necessary inspiration for the young generation, such as art, music, theatre, etc., so that creativity is not lost?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U43	Thank you. The subject of digitalisation is like two moments. One thing is certainly not to lose young people and creative people to smart tools or digital platforms. Enjoying culture through digital is certainly important, but practical experience is still a reality when it comes to becoming a part of it. I think that the current crisis has brought a great many other ways of extending access to culture at all. All such things as tickets, registrations, availability, when there is a specific need, are issues that have now been raised very strongly during this crisis. And I'm sure you can move on professionally from here, because the experience that has now been gained has been a huge number of cultural organisers, I would say, forced, but also inspired and inspired new ideas. I would like to take the subject of libraries as an example. On the one hand, we can see that digitalisation in this area is certainly one of the most extensive possibilities of such service availability. Well, the bookcase is a bit of a digitalization too, isn't it? On the other hand, it must be balanced so that the same children and young people whose habits develop at a certain age are not separated from books or social communication. It is certainly sometimes more economically beneficial to use digital solutions to provide services, but at the same time it must be borne in mind that social communication, direct participation in culture and services, is very important for a person to become what he is created to become.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U44	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U45	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. President Alar Karis, who has just taken his oath, said that it is very important to extend the possibilities of learning Estonian for free. This cultural development plan also includes Estonia, which supports adaptation and integration, where it is stated under the problems that nearly 10% appreciate that they do not understand the Estonian language at all, and that there will be an increase in the number of adult people who want to learn much more Estonian than there are opportunities at present. However, actions are proposed here: continue providing language courses and further develop the digital platform. My question: Is it foreseen that something will be done completely differently or will be grown significantly in order to respond to the growing demand to learn the Estonian language.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U46	Thank you for that question. Is something different being done? Well, I'm a little inclined to think that we have a habit of doing something different in Estonia all the time. But maybe there's something good already that we should just keep going. And I think one of these things is the Estonian language houses. The Estonian language houses have only worked for two years, but they have become very popular among people who want to learn Estonian. I think that we should not do anything differently, but give them the opportunity to do the work they are designed to do. Yes, we are planning to extend this service to smaller centres in addition to Tallinn and Narva. Exactly which places and how many we can create, I can't say right now. Tomorrow we will also talk to you here about a coherent development plan for Estonia in more detail. But these figures show that yes, this year is the final year of the European Union's funds and we have put together this budget for the remainder of the period, but next year an additional 400000 has been planned for language learning, a budget of 2.4 million, and the next year we already have the European Union's resources to provide additional education in the Estonian language. I highly recommend that you visit Estonian-language houses if you have the opportunity. These services that are provided there are good, and those who work there are really doing their job with their souls. The number of participants there is impressive. These methods of teaching Estonian are mapped out in all different levels and needs, and professional work is done there. My faith is that nothing needs to be changed, but that we must move forward with what we have and support what is already being done.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U47	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U48	Dear Minister, Today we are talking so much about metrics here, probably because the metric is the only way to check whether the beautiful objectives that are stated in the plan have been achieved or not. It's gonna take these meters. And certainly one of the problems with this development plan is that these metrics are relatively few. Another major problem is that this development plan is relatively general. You said it was very clear to you what this vision is that we want to achieve in five to seven years' time. Actually, it doesn't draw so well out of here. And the third aspect, which actually comes from the second point. There are some terms that have been used in this development plan that should be explained. For example, there are definitions here and there is such a term as "digitalisation." Such a word, even if it is explained in this development plan, does not immediately give a hint of what we mean. In the same way, if we look, under the strategic foundations there are green turns, the achievement of climate objectives in the cultural and creative sectors, it is not immediately understandable what they are trying to say. That's my question. There is the term "cultural accelerator" in the coalition agreement, but so far you have not explained what it essentially means. Can you answer the question of what a cultural accelerator means?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U49	Thank you. First on the gauges. Like I said, there's never been any meters before. So I think it's already a step forward that we want to measure something at all. And it is not possible to measure everything at once unless previously measured. In order to start measuring, we first need to get the basic data from which we start measuring, and if there are, then we can start putting on the characteristics that we want to achieve and where we want to get to. We have never done this in the field of culture before. It's not something that's been canceled now, it's not something that's ever happened before. And that's why they've been brought here, some places say "under construction," because they're being developed. We must first set [the objectives]. Once the targets are set, we will begin to map the existing situation to set these metrics. Hopefully, this development plan will be adopted, confirmed, and we can move on with it. A cultural accelerator is an idea, a goal of the program. It's also in the coalition agreement, and that's what we're working on. The current financial resources for the cultural accelerator have not been allocated directly. But there is certainly a role here in the crisis that we have come to. Priorities have been different. The idea of a cultural accelerator is that if a cultural organiser does his project, an event, then in order to reach a second level, a new step, such as international cooperation, perhaps involving partners, it would be possible to apply for support. This is not something that starts from scratch, but it is a move to another level of existing activity. That's the goal. But in the current crisis situation, we have focused on the organisers being able to keep the existing structures running. We've diverted the resource there. All the measures that have been taken from the additional budget have generally been applied for, we have also provided additional resources from the Ministry of Culture. Therefore, at the moment of the cultural accelerator, the objectives of the development plan and the objectives of international cooperation in the long term are certainly one of the programmes to work more closely on in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U50	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U51	Good manager! Good minister! In 2019 the Gambling Tax Council was abolished and this money began to be shared by the folk culture centre. It is essentially a division of funds into regional cultural activities. How do you feel about that? Has the centre of folk culture done well in this work, and has this money been sufficient to support regional cultural activities?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U52	I don't want to appreciate the Centre's activities now. I believe they have professional people and they will certainly share this money at their best discretion, taking into account all the criteria that are set out. It's kind of a trick question, isn't there enough? Well, yeah, I guess there should definitely be more. Regional issues are such that there are very many bottlenecks. The most fundamental objective of the development plan is that culture is accessible to all, both age and regionally. This cultural framework is one step towards better access to culture. But if we look at Harjumaa or look at Southeast Estonia, for example, this difference in terms of availability is about 25%. If it is 85% in Tallinn, it is between 50% and 60% in Southeast Estonia. Why did I bring up the same project "Theatre for Earth" in answer to one question here? Because this, too, is certainly one of the issues that should be addressed in meeting the objectives of the development plan. It should be considered how a professional cultural institution financed by the state budget is an Estonian Concert, is these theatres, would reach all Estonians, not only those buildings that are built by the state, but also those cultural centres that have been funded by local governments. So the regional aspect is certainly important. Is this only one measure? I think that, rather, regionality should be looked at in general terms for all measures, so that it is also one of the criteria for granting subsidies in order to balance the regional aspect.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U53	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U54	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I studied it, and I didn't notice any subcultures under multiculturalism or cultural diversity. If we complement the grant, say, to freelance creators, how could these subcultures be involved? Is there anyone who will, and if so, who will evaluate whether something meets these conditions so that we can call it a subculture? That's one side of the question. And the other is that I do not see any measures here that would prevent the politicisation of culture. Let's say we can say that the presidents of most sports federations are politicians. How can this be avoided in culture?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U55	Thank you. For cultural support measures, committees and councils have been set up to decide on the funding of cultural activities. Cultural organisers will present their own representatives, representatives from different fields. Yes, often these representatives may be the same for years, perhaps there is the same representative in different areas. I'm not saying there's no way to go over these things. I could. However, it is not a political issue, but culture is very multifaceted and certainly representatives of different areas stand very strongly for themselves. Who's the strongest front speaker and who's the smaller voice, isn't it different? I do not quite agree that it is now politicised in any way, but it is certainly very actively represented in the areas. Those who are stronger are sure to be more powerful in presenting their goals and desires. However, political interference in the implementation of grants and objectives I hope that this is more at the level of development plan and programme development, and the final decisions will still be made by those committees, where experts from the sectors are generally represented, everywhere. Now further, which activities in culture would have been supported and which would not? This development plan sets us the general objectives we want to move to, but we are not going to be very specific here. And if there are such specific issues, they can already be taken into account in the development of these programmes. The same cultural pack program, right, usually is that all the programs we start are developed on the assumption that they work. But the reality is that when they are implemented, there are very different issues that need to be changed. Subculture is part of culture, it's nowhere near anything. So, in that sense, if there are support programmes, measures where someone is left out, then we need to look at why such necks of bottles are formed and how they can be resolved. There must be flexibility inside. That is why I say again: the development plan is a strategic document that sets general objectives. But all the programs that come down here are already detailed, where all the questions need to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U56	Ladies and gentlemen, on this point, every member of the Riigikogu has one question for each waitress. So, Aivar Chef, if you want to, you can ask Heidy Purga a more specific question. Minister, there are no more questions from the members of the Riigikogu for you. Thank you! The chair is now welcome on behalf of the Committee on Culture, Heidy Purga. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U57	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much to the Minister of Culture. Good President! The discussion on the "Cultural Development Plan 2021.2030" was held in the Riigikogu Committee on Culture on 8 June. The following members of the committee took part in this meeting: Jaak Valge as alternate member Mart Helme, Helle-Moonika Helme, Signe Kivi, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Eduard Odines, Heidy Purga, Üllar Saaremäe, Margit Sutrop, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi and Marko Šorin. Anneli Ott, Minister of Culture, who introduced the development plan for culture, Daniel Raudsepp, Deputy Chancellor of Arts of the Ministry of Culture, and Karin Närep, Development Adviser to the Strategy and Innovation Department, were invited. Anneli Ott started by giving the Commission an overview of the draft development plan. It is a more comprehensive follow-up document with indicators and indicators on the basis of which performance can also be measured. Anneli Ott has just given a rather comprehensive overview of this development plan in this Chamber. But now from the debate that took place in the Committee on Culture. Eduard Odines initially referred to the objective of "Strengthening and functioning cultural life," one of which talks about the culture of children and young people. Odines asked, in particular, how realistic the Minister considered the achievement of this objective to be in a situation where, in the light of the known decisions, the local government's support for recreational education and activities was halved, no money was found in the state budget for the cultural regime, and the aid was also frozen from the gambling tax. Basically, Eduard Odines introduced his problem here too. Anneli Ott replied that culture was the same as regional policy. A number of ministries are involved in the implementation of culture, these metrics are being developed and arise when the government also approves the development plan. Anneli Ott spoke more specifically about the subject of recreational education, which is on the agenda, and presented the government's activities at that moment and related to why the government has cut interest education in terms of public money. The Minister added that supporting the education of interest was a pilot project and that, overall, the importance of the education of interest is not reduced. He also touched on the cultural policy and mentioned that the Ministry of Culture will certainly continue to apply for funding for this programme from the state budget for next year. Anneli Ott also described the priority of the cultural regime and talked about the importance of the role of municipalities in implementing the objectives of the development plan. I further asked about the COVID crisis and how the COVID crisis has shown that we have one cultural sector here in Estonia that needs a different approach also in the Ministry of Culture. I asked where the creative industries are, what new activities are, as well as support mechanisms and cooperation solutions. Daniel Raudsepp replied, who said that the focus was on increasing the added value of creative industries. As I asked in this Chamber, I also examined in the Commission how, more specifically, this EUR 19600 is being attempted to increase to EUR 25000 per year. Daniel Raudsepp replied that this development plan did not contain programme measures but mainly objectives, since reaching the objectives was in many respects a matter of political choice. Anneli Ott added to this point that cooperation with local authorities is certainly important in this sector, too, and the tendency is that several local authorities plan different creative industries and how to unite creative people. Next, Aadu Black, chairman of our committee, said that Estonia has the best development plans in the world, which are beautiful words and goals, but when you look at these action plans, you often get embarrassed. Compared to digitalisation, for example, Estonia's professional backwardness is increasing, gaps are sometimes felt, such as translation problems, etc. in this old foundation. The chairman of our committee asked how to significantly improve the quality of digital culture in Estonia and whether it should be the Riigikogu Cultural Commission or the Ministry of Culture. The Minister of Culture replied that the Ministry of Culture was in the process of drafting a document on cultural strategy, that discussions were beginning in the autumn, and added that the problem with Estonia's digital theme was this: if a neighbour starts building his digital house ten years later, his house would inevitably be more up-to-date and with better solutions. This means that Estonia will have to adapt its "old digital house" and add new links to it, or instead demolish the old house and start building a new one. In any case, according to the Minister for Culture, the topic is very relevant and is also mentioned in a number of development plans. Aadu Black said that the Committee on Culture wanted to be involved in the digitalisation activities so that it was not unnecessary to simply make criticism. Eduard Odinets then stressed that there was not enough time left for the members of the Commission to work through a comprehensive development plan and this was not good practice. Odines drew attention to the indicators of the development plan and said that there were no indicators for several objectives. Members of the Commission must evaluate the objectives and actions without knowing where they are actually going. Anneli Ott replied that the discussion on the development plan had been held for two years and that the basic metrics had already been set out in it. Lower targets and targets are within other objectives. In addition, metrics are being developed for the first time and have not been available in the past. Daniel Raudsepp explained the timeline for the development of the development plan. It was the knowledge that in 2020 the Culture 2020 would end, and the Ministry began to create a new document of fundamental principles. In the meantime, as the strategic planning at national level changed and the Estonian 2035 document came, it put the Ministry in a position where it was more sensible to make development plans. An important difference between the fundamentals and the development plan is that the fundamentals are a declarative and symbolic document and the development plan is specific. The formulation of the surveyors makes sense at the end of the preparation of the development plan. First of all, there was involvement in all the areas where the general part of the distillation was carried out, and the metrics are the emphasis on which particular emphasis is put. The ironsmith said that it was a desire to place emphasis on what the country did not monitor. I also asked what are the more concrete initiatives in which the Ministry of Culture can lead the way with general megatrends. Anneli Ott said that there is currently a mapping of the creative sector and that more precise answers would be received by autumn. Since the law has become obsolete, there is also a plan to come to the Riigikogu with amendments to the law. Aadu Black also noted for a moment the issue of selecting national sites, saying that since we were in the Commission on the wave of selecting these objects, he felt a great deal of responsibility for this. Black asked what the hopes of building a joint museum repository were. In addition, Anneli Ott replied that the Ministry had made a request for discussion of the state's budget strategy, which was unfortunately not accepted. Eduard Odines then spoke, saying that he considered targeting and surveying to be very important in this development plan. If the minister says that the government is dealing with the development plan after the Riigikogu debate, this should not be the case. If the minister hopes that there will be a discussion in the Riigikogu, new ideas will emerge, and this House will help to come up with metrics, then it must be said that this is not possible during a one-hour debate. Odines also expressed his hope that the Committee on Culture could discuss the development plan more times before sending it to plenary. He also mentioned that the part of the meters is very raw in order to discuss it in this state in the Riigikogu. Odines also referred, by the way, to the issue of gender equality, which is included in the development plan, but is quite slogand. He asked whether the Minister had specific ideas and ideas on how to improve the pay gap for cultural workers and in what area the Minister sees greater challenges from the point of view of gender equality. In the view of the Minister of Culture, this was an important issue, which is not just the subject of the Ministry of Culture. There's not much a minister can do to fix it, he thought. This must be a social understanding and an agreement, since the issue of pay is more general and the issue of the pay of cultural workers is a priority for those with which the Ministry has participated in the negotiations on the state budget strategy. According to the current agreement, there is also a salary increase in the budget. Odines also asked about the plan for the development of a coherent society development plan, as the European Structural Funds could also stand behind it, which would require a development plan in this area to finance the area of integration. He asked why the government decided to process the development plan for a coherent society only in October 2021. That is what we have, I simply recall, the June Protocol, because the Commission meeting on the development plan really took place on 8 June. Anneli Ott replied to Odinets that the development plan for culture is more broadly based and also includes aspects of a coherent Estonian development plan. The issue of financing EU funds will only arise in spring 2022, perhaps a little earlier. Currently, a coherent Estonian development plan has a deadline of September 2021 on the government's agenda. Finally, Aadu Black proposed that Heidy Purga be appointed as the representative of the lead committee and that the draft be put on the plenary agenda. It was scheduled for the first date on 14 June, but after several meetings, the Committee on Culture decided at its meeting on 27 September to propose that the development plan be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 11 October, and this was done in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U58	Colleagues want to clarify some things. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U59	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I was trying to figure out how to change, say, the criteria of the practitioners and decision-makers that they do these things. At this point in time, there is the impression that when new applicants are taken, the soup gets thinner, but it does not bear the interest again, which maybe is in the committees that have their own experts. Was it under discussion? You read it now, it wasn't there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U60	What do you mean?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U61	Well, for example, that our practitioners and decision-makers would be more helpful rather than just saying what is wrong with applications and why they do not qualify.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U62	I must admit that I did not quite understand this question and do not know whether it was about the members of the Committee on Culture or whether it was about the ministry's development plan and the development plans that are taking place there... I think that this question can now be... Members of the Riigikogu can submit their proposals to the Ministry of Culture after discussing this development plan, because this development plan here is not the final document as they have promised. In fact, the Minister of Culture was waiting here for a debate and concrete ideas to complement this development plan, and these ideas and proposals are also expected from representatives of interest groups in the respective fields, whose opinions I hope will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U63	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U64	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The fact that the Minister represents the government's understanding is logical. Just because he doesn't consider it a problem at all that there are no meters in more than half of the cases, it's not so normal anymore, but we understand that this is the government's position. But actually, I am now asking what the members of the coalition thought in the committee. You did report what Mr Odines thought, but what did the coalition ambassadors think? Is it normal that, in more than half of the cases, there are no meters and no matter what comes, everything fits, or is it not normal?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U65	Thank you very much for your question. Indeed, our colleague Eduard Odines is a very attentive member of the Commission, he is always well prepared and with very sharp observations, and he will certainly help other members of the Commission. As far as the other members' view is concerned, I can't speak for the others, I can only speak for myself right now on the remote, but it was surprising at first that this part of the meters was missing. But we will rely on the reasons set out in this development plan, why these meters are not available, or why it will take somewhat more time to develop one or the other metric to clarify these directions and targets.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U66	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U67	Thank you. First of all, thank you for those beautiful words at my address. Let's keep it up, I expect. But that's the kind of thing I'm asking. You and I both participated in a very interesting discussion a few weeks ago, which was organised here in the Riigikogu by cultural organisers and cultural leaders in various fields. From there I remembered such a very clear signal that our cultural policy lives in the past, pays very little attention to the future and a little to the present. If you look at the development plan that we have in front of us now, how would you comment on that? Do you agree that it takes things from the past, tries to fix them, and very little looks to the future? The same thing you asked me before about innovation and other things, how do you feel about this development plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U68	Thank you for this question. Just to remind you that I am here as a Commission waitress. But I can answer that question from a personal point of view. Indeed, this issue was not discussed in the Commission. I have a feeling that, although at first I may have been very critical about it, precisely because these megatrends or new cultural innovation goals have not been set, but on the other hand, I have come up with an understanding that maybe there is an opportunity to formulate them now. They would actually fit under these general headlines quite nicely. Perhaps that is the kind of initiative group in the form of the same mini-conference participants who met here half a month ago and pointed to the very right focus points and topics. Just in the background, there was talk about how culture can be the engine of the economy and the cultural economy as such, as well as the fact that little has been said about the creative industries so far. Culture is very transformative in these moments of time, as society needs it now. So I think that this development plan may not be an obstacle, but maybe it will provide opportunities for some new megatrends.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U69	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U70	I have a very specific question. A few years ago, we agreed that we now have one framework for all the strategy papers and it is entitled 'Estonia's Strategy 2035'. Most of the development plans that go through our committee are still exactly the same number: 2035. But this, the development plan for culture, is for some reason up to 2030. What is the reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U71	Thank you for your question. I'm telling you the truth, I don't know how to give a factual answer to that question. Daniel Raudsepp introduced the timeline and the reasons for the development of the development plan. He pointed out what one development plan meant and what the strategy paper meant. But that's a very good point. We're gonna blow this question up here, and maybe it's gonna have some details from the ministry.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U72	No further questions from colleagues. Thank you! And now we're opening negotiations. First, the word Signe Kivi wishes. Please! [[Signe Kivi is asking for more time.]] Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U73	Am I seeing time from here?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U74	Yeah, it's nice to see on yellow.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U75	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The development plan for culture 2021-2030 emphasises: "The constitutional aim of the Republic of Estonia to ensure the preservation of Estonian nationality, language and culture throughout the ages and the principles of freedom, ownership and cultural diversity of art and science, as defined in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, is used in the design and implementation of cultural policy. [---] Culture enhances people's well-being, supports their livelihoods, mental and physical health and contributes to social cohesion." This direction is also supported by the development plan's strand 3.12. I quote: "We understand the role of culture and creativity in promoting mental and physical health. Participation in cultural life has a positive impact on human health, satisfaction and self-esteem. " Yes, this approach to the relationship between cultural policy and health is a first and welcome one. The cultural development plan sets objectives by sector, bearing in mind the consequences of the corona crisis, changing labour relations and the needs for balanced development of the creative sector. The development plan is in line with the country's long-term strategy "Estonia 2035" and has the most direct impact on achieving three goals: man, society and the living environment. Ladies and gentlemen, The European Union is known to have national competence in the field of culture. There will be important initiatives for Estonia in the coming years, linked to the priorities of the European Commission. I would like to mention, in our opinion, the most important of these. Firstly, the 'Europe in Bauhaus' initiative on sustainable living, quality of life and innovation for people, and linking science and technology with the world of culture and art. Secondly, the greenprints and the achievement of climate objectives in the cultural and creative sectors. Option 3.14 of the development plan also states that the principles of environmentally conscious cultural organisation will be introduced. The question is what is the environmental impact of culture. It is not possible to reduce the impact if it is not known today's state. That is why several metrics are being developed. We'll be waiting. It should be added that the minimum footprint in cultural management was the subject that we and our delegation took as a new initiative for the Baltic Assembly during the Estonian Presidency last year. The third important priority in the development plan, which I would emphasise, is "the digital revolution and its effects in the cultural and creative sectors, including reducing the digital divide and improving access to culture on digital platforms." However, although the development plan has a separate chapter dedicated to digital culture and the year 2020 was the year of digital culture, the plan for the next nine years has rather remained at the level of digitising cultural heritage and describing digital services. Many of the new growing areas of digital culture are unnoticed in substance. From the lines of action set out in the development plan, I would like to mention point 1.15: 'We are developing an accelerator-type financing model that will enable different cultural institutions and organisations to make development jumps and to test innovative approaches'. Point 1.16 confirms that the fundamental principles of the functioning of the Cultural Endowment of Estonia and the formation of the budget are not changed. In particular, the Cultural Endowment supports creative people and project-based initiatives and the Ministry's budget finances the main activities of state budget institutions and long-term activities of national cultural importance. I dare say that, for various reasons, this balance has not been achieved here. Point 1.17: "We encourage the involvement of private supporters in the development of the cultural field. " Legislative changes supporting the financing of culture by companies and private individuals are allowed here. Very good! And point 2.10: "In cooperation with universities, we attach importance to creative research as a form of research that helps develop new forms of culture, open up social processes in new ways, understand the links between creative fields and other fields (economics, technology, etc.) [... ]' To sum it up. The depth of the development plan, which also makes it somewhat generic, and the focus on newer trends and links in the cultural and creative sectors, compared with the fundamental documents of past cultural policy, must be recognised. However, more emphasis should be placed on the fact that culture and creative industries are a partner equal to other areas and, in fact, larger than funding through the Ministry of Culture. Every euro contributed by culture brings back more times and this contribution to other sectors would need to be brought out. Let us call this a measure of economic impact. The above thoughts were expressed in the representative presentation of the creative fields in the Riigikogu on 22 September of the links between culture and the economy, which made it clear that culture is not cost, but culture is an investment. It was stressed that the cultural approach needs to be changed. Our cultural policy has been backwards and present rather than forward-looking, and a new generation, let us call it generation Z, is an ignored social group in cultural policy. I'm afraid we'll have to agree. Yes, Estonian culture is doing well, but our development potential is many times greater. The Reform Party Group expects the Steering Committee in support of the implementation of the development plan to make recommendations for the launch of new implementation-related programmes that will take more forward-looking creative and cultural areas into account. And finally. The Committee on Culture has repeatedly discussed whether it would not be time to review the format and regulation of development plans with a new look, as the role of the Riigikogu has unfortunately been to hear, ask and accept or disagree with the draft development plan. This is indeed an issue that deserves a wider debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U76	And now Eduard Odines. Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U77	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, I would like to start by quoting, which is very fresh, I heard it today a few hours ago in this Chamber, as our Republic President Alar Karis said. "Culture is a protection against darkness. " Very true words. I don't want to be in the dark, I want more culture. This development plan yesterday, today and now, by browsing and reviewing it, I have these thoughts in my mind. Will this culture, which we will develop with this development plan over the next ten years, help us not to get into darkness and protect us sufficiently against darkness? Several times it has already been mentioned here that this is a very general and declarative document. Yes, I understand that this is the world of our development plans, and maybe that's what they're supposed to be. But the more I would have liked to hear both at the June session of the Committee on Culture and today in this Chamber from a representative of the government, the Minister of Culture, more concreteness, more concrete examples of how the government plans to actually meet these objectives when it comes to drawing up its own programmes. I believe that no group in this Chamber opposes any of the objectives set out in the development plan. But I believe that we all have different ways and different ways of achieving these goals. That is why I would have liked to hear concrete answers from a representative of the government, specific answers to questions, not answers in the style of 'we accept the development plan and then we will start to see which way we are going'. But even what is our final goal, where we want to reach, which would be measurable, real, time-controlled and monitored, is not here, as a number of colleagues have already emphasised. Seven of the eleven sub-targets are under development, i.e. well over half. This means that, as members of our Riigikogu, not only do we see here that there is no specificity, but we also do not see where the government is going with this development plan. There must be specific and measurable objectives. How else would you plan all the activities and programs that the Minister here told us so much about? And in general, metrics are one of the most important elements of this same activity-based planning; they are part of the activity-based budgeting to which our country has gone a few years ago, and the reason why these development plans became so declarative in the first place. But some more concrete examples of what it means to declare, but in reality we do not. Access to the same culture for children and young people. Very noble purpose. Of course we do. Everyone does. But if we start to look at what our government is doing now, we have already heard about the cultural pack, a million to 79 municipalities, it will not in any way feed this goal. Or let's see what's done to support interest. Thanks to the Social Democrats, we saved three million, but still minus four million next year. No, in no way supports this objective. Or freezing a gambling tax that has already sounded, which will move more than three million euros from the cultural field over the next four years. Is this what helps to achieve these goals, so that culture is available in every corner of Estonia to every person in Estonia, every young and old, to support civil initiative and cultural initiatives on the ground? These are the instruments that organisations and non-profit organizations have received through the Estonian Folk Culture Centre from the same gambling tax, minus three million euros in four years. I guess this isn't the road we want. But that's what the minister keeps quiet about. The minister's talking about us coming out of the hall, so we're gonna start thinking about what we're gonna do next. I would like to hope that the Minister lies and that, in fact, there are plans and programmes in the ministerial portfolio to meet these objectives. There has also been a great deal of talk here today about remuneration for cultural workers. Yes, it is very good that the government raises the pay of cultural workers, not very strongly, but also that it raises the pay of cultural workers and gives the society a signal that the pay of cultural workers will increase. But it is forgotten to say that this is the remuneration of state-paid cultural workers, which is rising. In the local government, however, cultural workers who actually work on the field, depending on the purely and only how local authority supports culture, no one talks about their pay. Their wages are increasingly and increasingly falling behind the wages of a cultural worker in the country. This is where the gender pay gap in culture comes from. Solutions are needed, not a statement of facts. We also have examples here of how it has been possible to raise the salaries of kindergarten workers by providing assistance and support to local governments, financial support when they raise the pay of their kindergarten workers to the level of the pay of school staff. Why can't we apply the same schemes here? Well, that's quite possible. However, it seems that the Minister does not have a programme on this issue either, has no reasoning or is hiding them. The surveyors, I'll come back to them. All of this shows that if there are no gauges, if there are no indicators, if there are no indicators, what kind of pay or what kind of access to children, etc., it is not possible to choose the right routes. The surveyors were already mentioned at the very seminar that the previous speakers mentioned here. Cultural organisers themselves say that national monitoring is open and slow. And this development plan, which lacks metrics, makes its monitoring even more open. Quite a lot of things are declarative here. The same accelerators that have been mentioned, the same creative industries that have been mentioned, the same investment in culture that brings back more and more. Everything is only declarative. And when my colleague asks what are these concrete measures in the area of creative industries to bring investment back again, the Minister says that we will adopt the development plan, and then we will start thinking about the programmes. Well, that's not how these things are supposed to work. The objectives are right, we support these objectives, but the Government, the Minister and the Ministry of Culture must have a solid and predictable plan on how to achieve these objectives. Otherwise, in our time, what we are contributing here to this development plan, there is no point. That's a shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U78	Marko Šorin, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U79	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister, I, too, will start with a quote from the speaker today. Alar Karis, President of the Republic who had just taken office, said: "Culture is a matter of life and death. " It's awful. However, Signe Kivi also quoted the Constitution, which says that the preservation of culture through the ages is one of our main tasks. Therefore, we are discussing a very serious issue that will determine whether we and our culture are moving towards life or death, whether we are growing or dying. Estonia is very high in comparison with Europe in terms of indicators of participation in culture. In 2015 84.4% of Estonian residents aged 15 years and older participated in cultural life (except for sports events in this statistics) and 78.7% in 2017. Unfortunately, access to culture and access to culture depend largely on people's place of residence, age, language skills and socio-economic background. Access to culture must be guaranteed throughout the human life cycle. Every resident of Estonia must have the opportunity to participate in cultural activities and creative activities suitable for themselves, both as an interested person and as a creator. We know that the opportunity to participate in cultural life improves quality of life, makes the living environment more valuable and supports community action. Well-functioning accessibility means that the entire Estonian population is involved in the availability of culture and it has been taken into account that a large part of society is made up of children, older people, people with special needs and other groups who cannot make full use of all the possibilities of the community. This situation requires comprehensive solutions and requires awareness and cooperation between policy makers, representative organisations and representatives of the private sector. Although in Estonia more and more examples of accessible performances are found here: theatrical performances with writing and descriptive translation, an accessible song and dance, the UEFA football cup games described above, a large part of the culture is still inaccessible to disabled people. In order to create an accessible cultural experience, it is not enough to ensure that a wheelchair ramp is provided, but that the communication of the entire cultural experience is set to work in such a way that it reaches all people. This means that everyone, indeed everyone, will be part of the production, the concert, the festival, the art exhibition. Special attention also needs to be paid to the participation of children and young people in cultural activities. We must prioritise the role of non-formal and informal learning in shaping people's cultural awareness throughout the life cycle and consider it important to integrate culture more closely into the acquisition of knowledge, creativity, empathy and collaborative skills of children and young people with formal education and non-formal learning [in interests]. One of the most important steps in the field of culture is the cultural heritage initiative. The cultural framework allows young people to participate more in the cultural field than has been the case so far. Several exciting children's and young people's discoveries, which are born in theatre houses, both larger and smaller, do not reach the audience in the remote area. The funding of the Cultural Range offers relief, among other things, to these problems, but it also equates the opportunities of children to gain cultural experience more widely. Yes, the amount may be discussed, but a good initiative has been taken. Young people who play music, such as in music schools, are also known to be more successful in teaching. The cultural and creative sectors are one of the most hit areas in the corona crisis. The country has taken a number of supportive steps to mitigate the impact of the crisis on culture. In March 2020, the cultural and sporting sectors received a total of EUR 25 million in crisis assistance. These have been very important grants which have been granted to cover the inevitable costs of cultural and sporting activities. Estonian culture needs sharp eyes and continuous development. Culture is constantly changing with the development of society. Culture will never be finished. As a result of joint cooperation, and as a contribution by all, we can contribute to the big overall goal of ensuring that Estonian culture is viable, evolving and open to the world and that participation in culture is a natural part of the life of every person. Elitar culture will remain an elitist culture in a hundred years' time. But what today is an alternative culture, it will be an inheritance culture in a hundred years' time, whether it be the band Tuberkuloted, Metsatöll or Rage. That is why it is important to keep the public sector, I mean the benevolent look of both the state and local governments at rock clubs or Pärnu for example at the cultural club Tempel. And one more point I would like to draw attention to, although it is not linked to the development plan. The Commission, which deals with cultural issues, also deals with, and rather mainly deals with, education issues. The Commission, however, is called the Committee on Culture. The reason is logical: education is a part of culture. At the same time, the cultural development plan does not deal with education; there is a document in its own right. Therefore, would it not be more correct if this committee were to be called the Committee on Education and Culture? I thank you for your attention, and I sincerely hope that we will last through the ages to preserve and develop our culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U80	Helle-Moonika Helme, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U81	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Minister and all the good people of Estonia to whom culture and culture are important and who are watching us at this moment! Another development plan, this time the development plan for culture, has come so far that it is here in the grand hall of the Riigikogu. Unfortunately, this time, too, it must be acknowledged that, as with all development plans in general, there is a lot of text, many slogans, many words, and a lot of declaratoryity. There is a lot of completely pointless burdening and linking up with areas that should not be included at all, such as the Green Agreement, climate objectives and the priorities of the European Commission. But I understand that these are today's ideological trends, which must definitely receive mandatory mention and be there, like once in the red corners of working collectives and the quotes of the great leaders of the bright future of the new world order. At the time, too, no five-year plan escaped mandatory ideological foam. That is why it is a pity to read today's mandatory new deological slogans from the development plan, which deals with an area as important as culture, and which is crucial to the survival of the Estonian nation. These development plans will remain the framework for shaping our lives and progress over long years. And when we look at how the current world is changing very fast every day, I must repeat here that, therefore, there is a very high risk in these long-term development plans: instead of development, they can become a brake. In five years' time, they may not be able to describe the world in which we live. In situations where important national policies should be dynamic and quickly go along with developments that we cannot anticipate now, perhaps we are helpless and stagnating, because we have either taken too big a step or defined the wrong direction. We know that, among other things, financial allocations to key sectors are all dependent on these development plans. What are we going to do if, for example, we urgently need to save some part of our national cultural identity with an injection of money, our politicians are also ready to do so, but the priority of the European Commission categorically excludes it or envisages something else entirely? It is nice that the preservation of the Estonian language, culture and people, and I must note here that the word "people" has been used in this development plan, rather than "ethnicity," has been mentioned in this development plan, and repeatedly. The main challenges that need to be addressed in the cultural field, such as poor working and wage conditions for artists and cultural workers, poor value for the work of cultural professionals, supervisors and leaders, have also been described relatively well, and the problem is that the availability of culture among different target groups and sectors is limited in regional terms. Yes, continuing peripheralisation and urbanisation will lead to a decline in cultural life and poorer access to land, and the continuity of cultural life will be affected by the departure of people from rural areas. However, it is strange that so-called meters, which should be the basis for everything, are almost not all in this development plan. The surveyors would describe to us, among other things, our cultural space, the moment in which we live and are present. Cultural space is always a consequence of something, not a standalone thing or a thing in itself. Here too, the links between cause and effect work, as in all other areas, which is why we sometimes have to take a very close look at the details, even the smallest changes, so that we do not find ourselves in a situation where something valuable and invaluable has been lost forever. Culture is considered too often as an object. Yet this subject is created and his face, the face of man, the face of the creator. This is why the cultural creators have a huge responsibility for the future, so that it supports what is enshrined in our constitution. We will also talk about interdisciplinaryity and the need for integration in this development plan. Yes, ministries make downward arrangements for sectoral integration, but unfortunately it seems that ministries do not have an understanding of integration as a concept because they do not have an internship. The prerequisite is, of course, cooperation, which is often a superficial and misunderstood term in Estonia. People at the table don't cooperate, it's a lot more than that. Unfortunately, we have to admit that Members have been increasingly and more excluded from this process, even though we have a direct connection with our constituents, the people who have the highest authority under the Constitution. Finally, I quote our new President, who said in his speech today, among other things: "Culture is a matter of the life and death of nations. "This should be the most important starting point for our cultural agenda, because this, and only this, is important, not some ideological priorities of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U82	And now Üllar Saaremäe. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U83	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Riigikogu! I wondered what it was that today's debate will bring to my mind many times the words of Juhan Viiding. Unlike the previous speakers, I am not quoting our new president today, I am still staying with my beloved poet. And he wrote: "You've been interested in the course of culture. I've been very interested in freedom. Everything fits us all in the same way. This knowledge does not often fit." It is not going to be a general word, because unfortunately, all kinds of development plans of this kind must be like this. I would have expected more specific goals myself. There has already been talk of light and darkness here today. I would have expected some beacons to illuminate the way for this decade. If you think of a very hidden message on the question of my colleague, Riho Breivel, I will translate it so that the candidate for Ida-Virumaa hopes to see a professional theatre in Ida-Virumaa sometime. And not only visiting, but rightly there could be a professional theater in this county. Having been the head of a theatre for 21 years, I know what it really means and how much enthusiasm and how much enthusiasm it must be to really be born and alive. But that could be one of the goals. This could be one of the ten-year goals. Maybe they're saying, "Hey, come on, help me, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, We can't even do anything with Narva Free Lava, and now the gentleman wants to get his theater there! But that could be one of the goals. Or a letter from the movie people that came to us today. This, too, should be one of my goals, if not one of the first ones, so that at one point we can get to the point where we make this movie save, either we initiate it ourselves or we process it as an alien from the ministry. I think it is necessary, all the more so when the doers themselves express their wish and ask for it. This would put in place a number of things that are still open in this area. It makes no sense to say that twenty-thirty years have not done so, and so far it has been done. Specific beacons of this kind, as I mentioned, I had a wish for them, I asked about them. But as the Fatherland has always stood for the protection of culture, we still have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U84	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please! Yeah, with a light jog. Here's a glass of water. Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U85	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good friends, who are we here? I have to say that all your speeches were good, they were sympathetic to me, but what was my one concern, that's what I can say here. Now, let's do the problems I thought I had. First of all, all art people, cultural people have never been young. How they knew exactly how wrong all these things were, and in their best dreams, they may not have imagined that they would ever be in the role of decision-makers. It is now necessary to find the ugly one in himself again and not to repeat these mistakes. Yes, we came from a totalitarian system where everything was imposed, and if you thought any differently, you were sidelined. But that's what comes out of culture when you're pushed to the edge, it's a subculture. Maybe then there was a conflict with what existed and it was those who wanted something different. Maybe it'll take us further. But is it as much as it needs to be? Because we are actually seeing the same trend today that those who do not fit in the prescribed frames are being pushed aside somewhere. We're creating a conflict. How fruitful is it, really? Because today, new winds blow much faster than twenty or forty years ago. It's all one click away. And if we can't pay attention or if we can't think out of the box and see the potential of a young person, then he's going abroad to carry out himself. We've got a lot of young people dealing with completely incomprehensible things. We'll talk about these success stories only then... Well, just a small example: a young man waved on a rope and it was taken into video. And that's the kind of subculture. Now we have, in fact, reached the point where we have balance tracks at the schoolhouses. Was he an innovator? But we may not have seen it this way and at that point. I liked Marko Šorin's comparison that the rock bands that are now operating [doing stories that] will be folk music in a hundred years' time. If today we are thinking about a parent's choice of buying a 800-euro smartphone or a 200-euro electric guitar, of course, a single phone can actually buy four guitars. But doing a band doesn't have an interest or anything, he's gonna stay somewhere in between. Because those who decide always come from one thing, that when new faces come, the soup gets thinner. I've noticed it in sports, which is really a body culture, and there. And now I'm gonna end up there, which maybe was the point of my speech. If we want to put something in place in order not to be stuck in the past and to touch very little on today, but to put into practice the vision of the future, then without people, we cannot imagine the future, nor can we in any way direct and influence it. For this to happen, it must be exactly the kind of sissy among those who reject some of the applications because there is a bird missing somewhere. Rather, the youth seeks to help the initiators. I'm telling you, I really know what I'm talking about. I was the editor of the processing, processing and processing of applications for annual grants for youth associations at the Estonian Youth Work Centre and I got the input that I should rather help young people more. I found a connection to this so-called youth work. I would like us to record in our priorities that officials and decision-makers should be directed towards the people, not towards the ministry, and boldly, even from the budget, to seek more money, not to fear that the soup is getting lax. This soup doesn't get lax, this soup enriches us all. Thank you. Bon appétit!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U86	There's no more calls. Ladies and gentlemen, we have passed the negotiations well. The Minister does not wish to conclude, so we are closed on the first item.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U87	Let us move on to the second item on the agenda. Inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu Reuben Kaalepi, Anti Polandmets, Jaak Valge, Henn Põljaasa, Siim Pohlak, Alar Laneman and Leo Kunnas concerning the value and protection of the farm architecture. Ruuben Kaalep is expected to explain this inquiry as a representative of the heirs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U88	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister, Today we are talking about Estonia's cultural heritage, about the survival, preservation and rescue of no less than one fundamental pillar of Estonian culture. Throughout the millennium, Estonian culture has been one of the most consistent, continuous, most inseparable expressions of Estonian farm architecture. Without it, no one can imagine any Estonian village, the rural municipality of Estonia, the parish of Estonia. Rehiums, smoke saunas and village schools have been part of Estonian landscapes for countless generations and become one with this land, with our understanding of Estonia at all. Without knowledge of the farm architecture, Estonian literature, Estonian history, Estonian folk poetry, the ever-indigenous ways of life of the Estonian cannot be understood. At the heart of our architectural heritage, the unique structure of the Estonian's body and soul is located in the world. Now, in the 21st century, in the era of information technology and major changes, it is high time to start saving the part of the Estonian farm architecture that can still be saved at the 12th hour. Now is not the time or place to blame or point out why no more has been done to save it. We just need to know what reality is. The old farm buildings have already disappeared irreversibly from the map and landscape by village and parish. In Northern Estonia, the farm architecture has been preserved mainly as a few tourist attractions. Farm architecture is best preserved until our day in South-East Estonia, but there is also an enormous danger. We have only a few decades left to save the legacy of our ancestors from irreversible destruction. Even now, the roadsides of South Estonia are full of broken-down terraces. The Time Tooth is doing its job because the state has neglected private owners and is unaware of their priceless value. Those who want to maintain and restore their inheritance must take into account the huge costs. The country has provided minimal support for this. Something also says that only 21 terrace buildings have been protected among thousands of monuments in Estonia, more than half of which is located in the village of Koguva in Muhu county. It would be wrong and incredibly irresponsible to get behind bureaucratic obstacles in this situation, which has not led to any progress in the inventory of hatchyards, and the road from inventory to protection is still immensely thorny. Every responsible Minister of Culture who cares a bit about Estonian culture should, in this situation, take the preservation of the Estonian farm architecture as a matter of priority. Who could continue to live with the knowledge that during his term of office, his centuries - old ancestor's legacy was neglected, broken up, and destroyed? Because of this very great concern, we have asked the Minister of Culture to come here and answer questions concerning the value and protection of the farm architecture. I sincerely and deeply hope that our concern is common, that it transcends the boundaries of political parties and ideology, and that we hear these answers here, which testify to the fact that the rescue of the Estonian farm architecture is indeed taken seriously and that this eternal value will be preserved for future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U89	Anneli Ott, Minister of Culture, must answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U90	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen of the Riigikogu! I will read out the question and answer. "What is the reason why the monuments of the farm architecture form such a small part of the buildings to be protected, and whether and how is it planned to extend the protection of the farm architecture? " Farm architecture includes both residential and farm buildings, which are an important part of the Estonian building heritage and a reflection of local history. It is somewhat under-represented in the list of national cultural monuments, but there are also several objective reasons for this under-representation. First of all, they are historical, which means that the emphasis on defining and protecting the values of the farm architecture has historically been on museums, not on heritage conservation. This has been done with open-air museums and farm museums, which are found in almost all counties, and there are 16 of them in total. Farm architecture has historically been linked to ethnography, where objects, drawings, and messages have been regarded as conservation values. Outside museum buildings, it has not been considered necessary to establish national protection for the farm architecture as a stand-alone place for people living on a daily basis. This is because it is not appropriate for people living in these buildings and for people's homes to impose extremely complicated national standards, rules or conditions on what a person can and cannot change in his or her real estate, where he or she lives. This problem is complex, but despite this, there are 237 buildings under the heritage protection of the farm architecture in Estonia, 57 of which are residential buildings and 180 auxiliary buildings. The terraces are protected as a monument 24 and, as was said earlier, 10 of them are located on Muhu Island in Koguva village, where they were taken as a whole under protection as an object of ethnographic interest in 1968. Secondly, today's opportunities for heritage protection include museums, national parks, local protection at the level of local government planning, and ownership protection are much wider than heritage conservation. As has been said, the farm architecture can be preserved and introduced in museums. National parks, where cultural heritage is protected, have also had a significant impact on the organisation of the protection of farm architecture, such as Alutaguse, Karula, Lahemaa, Matsalu, Soomaa and Vilsandi. The possibility of valuing the farm architecture, which is very suitable and close to people, is also the planning of the local government. Several municipalities have already done so, they have carried out studies and defined environmental areas in the overall plan, where the traditional farm architecture is maintained, we take Setomaa rural municipality for example. The protection of cultural heritage at local level is certainly what needs to be promoted or communicated more. Thirdly, there are practical reasons. As I have already mentioned, it is very difficult to protect the home of a person in which he lives on a daily basis as an object of national importance and to present conditions at national level to the everyday living environment. That is why museums have largely taken on the role of studying and preserving the farm architecture. The criterion for granting heritage protection is the authentic preservation of the object. For example, once the rake has been broken out and modified with it, it can no longer be protected because it is no longer authentic. The good thing is, of course, this house is still there, but there's no reason to take it into protection as a state-of-the-art object. Thus, national protection within the meaning of heritage protection is not intended to be substantially extended. The plan is to continue and, where possible, extend the availability of advisory services for house owners, as well as to continue to pay subsidies and to promote more local maintenance of traditional farm architecture through planning. The second question: "Which programmes, in addition to the existing support for the preservation of the farm architecture, are planned to be initiated to support private owners in restoring and maintaining valuable farm architecture? " There are currently two financial measures available for support. One is an application round for the restoration of the National Heritage Board, which is intended for cultural monuments, and the other is an application round for the farm architecture. It is currently planned to reach EUR 200000 from the budget until 2022. And at the moment, EUR 400000 has been planned from the state budget, and from the Ministry of Culture's budget we have also put EUR 400000 there. The total amount of this project is EUR 800000. In addition, the Ministry of Culture supports the study of land architecture, counselling and training of house owners through the Rural Architecture Centre of the Estonian Open Air Museum. It has also received very positive feedback. Surveys have shown that quality of service is very satisfied and 75% of people have practically partially or fully implemented the knowledge they have gained over the year. Counselling for house owners is so far the most effective activity that has contributed to improving the condition of farm buildings. In combination with subsidies, this effect is, of course, greater. I would also like to point out that, linked to the corona crisis, there has been a significant rise in the demand for services, which is expected to be driven by increased interest in settling on land and also in the application of rural houses throughout the year. The third question: "What deadline is the plan to complete the inventory of rehabilitators in the land-building heritage database so that the need for protection of rehabilitators preserved in different areas of Estonia can be assessed evenly? " This database was compiled by the Estonian Open Air Museum and the purpose of this study was to assess the preservation of the building type in order to develop support measures, but during the work it also changed to get an overview of the main damage to the buildings in order to develop advisory services for house owners. The current active period for the collection of data has ended and this passive update will take place on the basis of received notifications or advice. A total of 1049 entries are included in the database of buildings, which accounts for about 15% of the preserved storehouses. It's a representative sample enough to get an overview of the building type and its problems. Training and information materials for house owners have been developed from the surface of this overview. Question 4: "How is the preservation of the architectural heritage of rural and school areas, which has been inventoryed in the land-building heritage database but has not been protected by heritage? " The purpose of the inventory is not directly national protection. Only a small representative part of each type of inheritance is protected at national level. The rest of the research results will be used to advise local authorities, as I said before, in the preparation of general plans for the definition of milieus and valuable individual objects. Research results are also used by the Estonian Open Air Museum in the development of training programmes and information activities. This information is also publicly available to interested parties. "How does the government intend to help many of the objects of the farm architecture threatened with ruins over the next few years? " Of course, the recognition that farm architecture is valuable and the basis for local identity has increased considerably in the last decade. At the same time, major changes have also taken place and are taking place in rural areas. The traditions of farming are in constant change due to the decline of the agricultural function and the continuing urbanisation. The current use of buildings is also changing, and several types of buildings are actually out of use. And, of course, peripheralization also affects the preservation of this heritage. Given the nature and values of the farm architecture, extending national protection is unlikely to be the most sensible approach. There is no point in making it so that we conflict with the expectation of national protection for the daily use of people's domestic conditions. Rather, a good solution should be found to maintain these values at local level, with the owner, the community and the municipality. Some possible steps would be to continue with the support of the farm architecture and, if necessary, to increase it in the future, to continue with the services of counseling house owners, to promote local protection in order to repair traditional architecture, and regional resources through the organisation of valuable heritage, which provides the opportunity to create jobs and to promote tourism, improve the living environment and attract new residents to the region. It is also important to promote traditional construction and finishing materials, sustainable local materials. Here too, the National Heritage Board can contribute to communication activities. Question 6: "What measures are planned to raise people's awareness of the value of farm architecture? " Based on a value survey carried out at the Estonian Open Air Museum last year, it is estimated that awareness of the value of farm architecture is relatively high in society. Of those who answered the questions, 62% thought it was valuable. In addition to the open-air museum, other farm museums, the National Heritage Board and private companies, such as NGO Eesti Maaehitus and MTÜ Vanaajajaja, perform this work. Their cooperation will continue to improve awareness of training, seminars, educational materials and campaigns aimed at homeowners. For example, a campaign such as "Look at the Old Window" during a pandemic, on its web day in May, nearly 600 viewers from 11 countries learned to restore wooden windows. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U91	The Anti-Semimets would like to be specified. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U92	Thank you, manager. Dear Minister, I've been a window trainer too. This project is pure gold, and training there is an obvious development. I see that this whole structure exists in itself, and it should be like the Earth Architecture Center, but there's no jump that wants to happen. Especially in the situation, I am just comparing that the Ministry of the Environment is going to have some of the largest wooden houses worth 40+ million euros, and at the same time our real Nokia The priorities are out of order here. I have a question. Where to find that money and get a real breakthrough in a situation where 40 million are being shaken from one sleeve to the wooden house and we're freaking out from the other end?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U93	Thank you. Yes, I do not want to put a problem here in the area of any other ministry, but simply from past experience, I say that there is certainly no one support measure designed precisely to preserve this heritage, where perhaps there are already certain restrictive criteria, the only option. We already have operational European Union programmes today. Exactly the same, if the building is authentic from the outside, or if it is still intrinsically valuable in its nature, what if it really does not live there exactly as it lived a hundred years ago, but there is land heating and maybe half the walls have been cut down, then it retains the milieu value, its roof can be improved with support, maybe it is possible to improve the foundation and replace the logs. These are all such issues that should actually be looked at more widely. For example, if a young family wants to buy a building like this and develop tourism there, anything, training, etc., but it preserves its authenticity, that would be one way. My own experience is, if I am not mistaken, from Ireland, where, for example, through this very LEADER programme, completely ordinary private homes were supported. There lived an elderly person who was unable to reconstruct the building himself, but he received support to preserve this valuable heritage and later to re-use it. We, too, can certainly extend this issue from across these programmes. It does not need to be one concrete measure, where there are certain criteria, but it should be such a broad-based approach so that it can be approached in the context of a number of objectives.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U94	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U95	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. As a person in Võrumaa, you should be aware of how serious the problem is in South-East Estonia, which is reflected throughout the landscape. You have pointed out that defences are wider than purely heritage conservation, including national parks, nature reserves, etc. I can give an example from South-East Estonia, where almost every village in the Otepää Nature Park has a number of decomposing rake houses that have remained in ruins in the last ten to twenty years. Do you understand the seriousness of this problem and the fact that the current volume of subsidies and national passive policies are no longer sufficient to prevent an approaching disaster?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U96	Thank you. I would not say that state policy is passive, because I have brought a number of aspects that we are dealing with under the leadership of the country. I think that the most effective is the training of interested people, owners, the availability of good information, and certainly cooperation with local authorities. There are good examples that local authorities also support smaller or larger programmes if private property can be reconstructed. I do not know how to comment on this example of South Estonia in such detail because, to my knowledge, the plots and buildings of South Estonia are very expensive, and especially during the current crisis. So how many of them are out there, where there's no owner, I can't say. Rather, it is a question of the conditions under which they can be adopted. Here, as I have just said, this problem arises: from the young families who come to the country, I do not believe that there are many who would like to set up their own homes in an authentic trench, rather than wanting to have a home with modern possibilities, and this authenticity is the most external. There are these rules now coming up, and the more we take buildings under heritage protection, the more difficult it gets to reconstruct them and the more expensive it gets. People are no longer interested in this. So that's why this system is so designed that we have museums where we can hold this heritage, and we have certain buildings that are protected, but generally we support through support programmes, training and local government measures. Hopefully, as came out of this data, the training currently available is highly valued and people's own awareness of the importance of heritage has increased.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U97	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U98	Thank you for the opportunity to ask! Minister, thank you very much. I also think that this is a very serious issue. But I'm going to expand it a little bit more. In fact, as part of our farm and land architecture, let us say that windmills are also an important part. In doing so, the most windmills in the county have been Saaremaa, as you know. However, there are currently only 35 bonfires in Hiiumaa and 80 in Saaremaa, and several types of mill have been irreversibly lost from the Estonian cultural landscape. At the same time, only EUR 3 million per year are available for all sites and buildings in the heritage reserve. I would stress that there is no separate instrument for all windmills. As Detective Mihkel Koppel of windmills has rightly said, the Heritage Board has a rather large whip and a relatively small cookie. Is it possible to maintain our windmills at all in this situation if only this whip is increased?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U99	It is certainly possible to develop measures to motivate owners more. The preservation of our cultural heritage, and not just the preservation of our cultural heritage, but of the cultural heritage of the European Union at all, is not just Estonia's problem, but it is much wider. It is now that almost 90% of this entire inheritance is privately owned. This issue has also been raised at the Council of the European Union meeting at ministerial level and discussed what measures we could take to preserve a legacy, which is private property, but is actually the property of all of us, for which we all want it to be preserved. What exactly are the programmes and how we will continue to preserve this cultural heritage is currently under discussion. But I agree with you that really without the carrot, we won't get very far. As the problem has been recognised, further work is needed. The development plan also states how it is possible to approach things more flexibly in the sense of heritage protection, so that in the end the heritage will be preserved and the heritage protection will be more accessible to the owner.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U100	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U101	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I would like to extend the same subject as my good colleague, Jaak White. Paide as such is a unique city of Prussian, [where there are still] rare wooden buildings that are built from 18 to 19. In the 19th century. Igor Gräzin said it should be included in the UNESCO legacy list. All these buildings are in a heritage protection zone where, let's say, the residents are not allowed to do much. If there's some kind of boundary wall lie or the shape of the roof tile isn't right, they won't let anything happen. On the other hand, if, for example, something is to be done, the 14th - century lime oven, which is unique, will be destroyed. I see the problem at the moment in this, in fact, Minister, we should quickly table the law on heritage protection now, the current state of play simply shows that heritage protection is a country in a country that does what it wants.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U102	Well, the law is working out here. Every time you have to change the law, it's your first chance. But speaking of our legacy, I think, as I also answered the previous question, that we must be aware of this: the legacy, which is privately owned, is actually ours. We're all interested in keeping it safe. That is what steps must be taken to ensure that he is truly preserved. Because we also have a lot of owners who, because the requirements are very strict or very difficult to follow, do not deal with the inheritance. Then this legacy simply stands and it also spoils the atmosphere, whether in nature or in an urban environment. So this is a multifaceted problem. How exactly do we solve this? Yes, as the issue has been raised not only in this Chamber but also in the wider sense, I expect that at some point we will have these debates in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U103	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U104	Thank you. Good minister! Since I myself own a heritage object and know the charms and pains it brings on a daily basis, I'm still asking. My colleague, Kalle Grünthal, in fact, took away half of my question when he spoke about the fact that we might have to break the law on heritage protection and do a lot of turning around, because even now, according to this question, it does not actually fulfil its purpose. When you said there was no more money or that we should find more money, it would be easy to find more money for these important objects. It is simply a matter of taking down these enormous bureaucratic demands, all kinds of pre-projects, monitoring, requirements for materials, especially for makers, etc. When we come back to the farm architecture, there are actually quite a lot of things that the Estonian person, the owner of Estonia, could do with the peasantry, but it is precisely those requirements of heritage protection that do not allow and that is why these works are so awfully expensive. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Right. My question is this: would you be willing to start dragging this matter as a minister so that the law on the protection of heritage can be opened?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U105	Thank you. I thank you for these proposals and I will certainly take them from here. As I said, the subject is already under discussion and with the National Heritage Board we have discussed it ourselves, and this development plan also describes that both the owner and the National Heritage Board must somehow be able to take a step against each other. How to do it exactly, we need to discuss it. The proposals you put forward will certainly be included in this debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U106	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U107	Thank you very much. Good minister! I am delighted to hear that you are seriously considering the possibilities of meeting the owners with the rules of heritage protection and making things easier. It is good that this has been recognised in society, and it is, of course, very good that it has also been recognised in this Chamber. But there's one thing I've been left unclear. It seems to me that there are a lot of signals that relate to the fact that the rules of heritage protection are a little complicated, it is a bit bureaucratic and maybe a little more harassing than it should be. I ask you this way: have these signals come to the Ministry? Does the Ministry sense that there is a problem here that needs to be regulated, amended, the law broken down, or is it just the adoption of signals?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U108	Thank you. As we know in 2019, this hall discussed the law on heritage conservation, so it was only recently here that this law was discussed. Hopefully, all important issues were discussed then too. But, as I said, at European Union level, this issue has also been raised to preserve our heritage, and this heritage is not just a private interest, but is actually an interest in our cultural space, an interest of our people. It's all our property. There are certainly many of these buildings and monuments that we would like to keep in our cultural space for a long time. But, of course, there are dangers in mitigating conditions. These conditions have not come about by themselves; there have been some reasons why they have been developed as they are. If they do not meet our primary objective of maintaining architecture, this heritage, then of course we must look up these bottlenecks. Why are conditions the way they are? Is it necessary to compensate for the costs arising from these constraints in order for the owner to be able to maintain this inheritance? Or are restrictions too restrictive? These discussions really do exist. Right now, I don't know where we're going, but I'm sure the input is very welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U109	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U110	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister of Culture, First of all, the great recognition to the authors of the questioning that they brought the debate on this subject into this large Chamber, because this is a very important issue. Indeed, there is not much time [to a situation] that we no longer have anything to restore. I know that several ministers for culture have dealt with this issue and have sought and offered solutions. As Minister of Culture, Indrek Saar was a clear spokesperson on this subject. But since reading the state budget is a relative piece of art, I have not found the financial figures for it. Can you point out, as compared to previous years, if not right now, then suddenly you can do it in writing, whether the amount for projects and grants has increased? Because, indeed, local authorities contribute to restoration and restoration, but this is not enough. Do you have any of these state budget funds? And is there any rise expected next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U111	Yes, thank you! Since we started the RES negotiations in the spring so that we finally reached the austerity targets, it was possible to reach agreements on certain new activities now in the autumn, but the Ministry's overall budget remained at the same level, including support for the restoration of the farm architecture. So until 2022, this support is currently planned. It should certainly be moved forward, but decisions have been taken at the moment until 2021. From the state budget, 400000 euros of the budget of the Ministry of Culture have been allocated to this measure, as well as 400000 euros per year for restoration grants.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U112	Good Minister, that's the end of the questions. I'm opening negotiations. Ruuben Kaalep is welcome first. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U113	Dear Riigikogu! Thank you, Minister, for answering the questions. Unfortunately, we did not get the assurance here that during the current government, Estonia's farm architecture would be better protected than it has been for the last 10 or 20 years. I will make a point-by-point assessment of our questions and of the Minister's answers. First, it was pointed out that the emphasis on protecting the farm architecture should be on museums. We have 16 museums in Estonia that are working on it, and that is as if enough. I think it is a very sad picture when our national culture is reduced and banished only to museums. The architecture of the Estonian farm, the terraces must be part of our landscape, part of the natural living environment that we see every day around us, where our children grow up and where our life in Estonia is as it has been for centuries. Another argument was that excessive protection would no longer allow people to live in their own homes because it would lead to too harsh conditions. But why must our heritage defence policy be so inflexible? Why do these conditions have to be so strict? Can we not look at this with a more flexible view now, in the 21st century, where we know that culture, in order for it to stay and be preserved, must be living, organically linked, so that man can live in harmony with the historical heritage and our past? As for the fact that other protection options, such as national parks and nature reserves, are more extensive, I have already given an example of how Otepää Nature Park has basically decomposed terraces on every corner. If the protected object must have been authentically preserved in its original form, then the question arises as to why, for example, we defend the ruins of the Cathedral in Tartu, which has largely been rebuilt during the 19th century, but still we defend it as a medieval monument. If there are only 24 terrace buildings among the thousands of protected objects, given that the structure is the greatest legacy of our nation and culture to the architectural history of the world, it is obviously not proportional. If this programme, which should be sufficient to preserve and save the farm architecture, is only EUR 400000 per year and there are also land-architecture research projects, then the question arises as to how much it will save from this decomposing architecture that is around us throughout South Estonia. As far as inventory is concerned, it is claimed that 15% has now been examined and is a representative choice. But forgive me, how is this a representative choice when 100 terrace houses have been invented in Läänemaa, in Valgamaa, 0, Võrumaa, 0 and Viljandi County 1? So how come entire counties don't contain any rake houses that we need to get an initial picture of whether it needs protection or not? And if there was the idea that the purpose of the inventory is not at all to protect these objects, does that mean that we may have somewhere in the database excellent information about an old village school or farmhouse and what architectural values are there, but if someone wants to disperse it with a bulldozer, nothing will stop it? Can I have some more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U114	Sure. Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U115	As regards the specific measures on how to better protect the farm architecture, the continuation, advice and local protection of the current form of support are not measures that are proportionate to the scale of this threat. Because we are still talking about the destruction of the entire cultural heritage, to a large extent, over a few decades, which is a completely real perspective. On how to prevent this from happening, we did not hear any specific promises. It's like it's enough for 62% of people to know that RVs are valuable. But what good is it if this legacy falls apart? Our goal must be to prevent this destruction. And what became clear here is that Estonia's heritage defence policy needs change in any case and that change must be in two directions. Firstly, heritage protection must enable people to live in harmony with their heritage. There must not be a situation where, as an argument against granting protection, people can no longer live in their own homes. They have to! We must be flexible enough to do so in the 21st century. Secondly, we cannot pursue a heritage defence policy in such a way that only famous objects, stone city buildings and things that are as if to be shown to Western tourists, but our rhetoric is something that we are still ashamed of as peasants in the 19th century. Honourable Riigikogu! There are some things that should not be a dispute in our democratic nation state. One of these is the preservation of Estonian heritage and the preservation of national traditions. We must not and we cannot imagine a future where Estonian children grow up in urban apartments or in new rural development and the only place where they can become acquainted with the lives of their ancestors remains an open-air museum transformed into a tourist attraction. In this way, in addition to the continuity of the level of the idea and the beauty of the South Estonian farmland, we would lose something that is not descriptive of the word It is not too late to save its cultural heritage. So let's do it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U116	Kalle Grünthal, please! Please, eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U117	Ladies and gentlemen, I am very grateful to the EKRE ambassadors who have presented this question to the honourable minister, because valorisation and protection of the farm architecture is a very important issue. At this point, however, it is still evident that the subject that was initiated is not only about farm architecture, but also about all the architecture that relates to history. As far as I could remember from this discussion, the problem areas were still running to an institution such as the National Heritage Board. And now, with the generous permission of the Minister, I dare to make a very serious criticism of the National Heritage Board as well. I refer to their duplicity and also to the fact that although the European Convention for the Protection of Architecture Heritage should be implemented in a comprehensive manner in Estonia and the programme for the restoration and maintenance of architectural heritage should be implemented by promoting heritage policy, this institution, the National Heritage Board, does not encourage it. Perhaps its activities run counter to the Convention for the Protection of Architecture Heritage, which, of course, includes the principles of valorisation and protection of the farm architecture presented by the EKRE ambassadors. In order not to be unspoken, I would like to give an example of Paide, a town in the heart of Estonia, where there are unique wooden buildings preserved in the early 18th, 19th and 20th centuries, about which Igor Gräzin, who visited this city, said that it is so unique in Europe that it should be taken into the protection of UNESCO. But the fate of buildings in the heritage reserve is extremely sad. It is the rules established by the National Heritage Board that have actually encouraged the destruction of buildings in the heritage reserve of the Old Town. Residents cannot repair there in such a way that these buildings are preserved, they move out, then the homeless come in place until the house is set on fire at one point. The list of these destroyed buildings is remarkable. It will take another 20 to 30 years, and the unique architecture of Paide City has completely disappeared. You can only view it on images, and you can read about it in historical records. What's the problem? I don't know if it's anywhere else, but the real problem in Paide City is that Paide's heritage officials have been pursuing a two-faced policy. In the case of a private house where something needs to be done or repaired or repaired, the finger will follow. Now, this border table is under the wrong slope, this window trim isn't quite right, the roof tile is in the wrong shape, etc. In principle, this leads to a situation in which the National Heritage Board is hindering, by means of its own rules, literally hindering the preservation of the building in the future. In comparison, another example. The fact that Paide was wanted to be built and the state gymnasium was also built has certainly attracted much attention. Although there was enough land around Paide and even the place had already been viewed, it was built directly on the slope of the Wall Mountain and with an absolutely inappropriate architecture that does not match the appearance of this city as a result of political games. And imagine, the heritage officials gave permission to completely demolish the unique 14th-century lime oven that emerged during the excavation process. It's never been like this before. And the heritage officials gave permission to destroy the doors to replace the windows of the former Paide Girls' High School. It's a total duplicity. Total duplicity! The recipients of such decisions were Karen Klandorf, then the monitoring officer for the heritage conservation of Paide City. And now, after that, he's landed in the National Heritage Board for a position like a surveillance officer. Well, I'm telling you, madness is what a goat is! As this is the policy, the position of Siim Raie, Director General of the National Heritage Board, actually refers to it. To my question of what can be done to resolve this situation, Siim Raie, in the Committee on Legal Affairs, gave a smiling face that possession of real estate was not an obligation. Since I was at the request of attorney Allar Jõks, who represented the representatives of the old buildings, the buildings under heritage protection, his comment was very clear: for the sake of this sentence, this man should lay down his place. Such examples can be found in quite a large number of the activities of the National Heritage Board. And now, Minister, if you have time to listen specifically, I really enjoyed the idea that it was going to happen. But I think the law of heritage must be lifted immediately. The problems that exist must be highlighted. Because the problem is not only in Paide, but also in Valga, Pärnu, Viljandi, Tallinn, in rural areas with farmers who have unique buildings that should be preserved. This law should be made to promote the preservation of cultural heritage and to comply with the European Convention for the Protection of the Heritage of Architecture. The Minister rightly pointed out that there is a method of whip and carrot, but now, in the current situation, we must replace the whip with a carrot, because the whiping has led to the breakdown of the whole system. Heritage does not actually meet its real goals. There is a need to make a cardinal change here. At present, heritage protection is like the state in the country. In fact, this should be in line with the fundamental values of our country. Maybe I'll add another example of Paide City. Local governments have the power to make every decision in their area of government, but where do you get it? It's the heritage guard who forbids, tells, hangs and shoots. In this matter, power must be taken away from them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U118	We've exhausted the negotiations. I will close the negotiations, and with that we have exhausted the item. Ladies and gentlemen, Our agenda today is over, but we can still use a free microphone to express our thoughts. So if anyone has a desire to say anything in a free microphone, please do so after the hammer hit.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-11_U119	There are no such requests. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you. Have a good night. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00.
