ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the 10th working week Tuesday session of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. And as usual, there is now an opportunity to hand over drafts and inquiries. Helir-Valdor Seeder, is there a procedural question before? Okay. A microphone for Heli-Valdor Seeder, please! No, it wasn't. Got it. Then again: is there a desire to pass on drafts and enquiries? That's not what you want. So we can run a presence check. Mr. Grünthal, do you have a procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U2	If I may, I will vote on my procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U3	Got it. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U4	Currently 85 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present and 16 are missing. Before we go to the agenda, we have one item on the agenda. On today's third item, which is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" presented by the Social Democratic Party Group, Lauri Läänemets, Member of the Riigikogu, will make a presentation on behalf of the initiators. So, Mr. Grünthal, did you have that procedural question or didn't you? You don't have a hand up. There's a hand up. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U5	Thank you, Mr President. Yesterday there was a problem with the conduct of a sitting with remote participation and Mr Jüri Ratas, Chairman of the Board of the Riigikogu, said that this was the case for informing members of the Riigikogu through the media, and this is the result of § 891 (7) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures. I asked him which media he had then informed these members of the Riigikogu, and he said from this remote that he knew [information] existed, it certainly existed in the office, but he couldn't say exactly which media edition, the newspaper had reported it. And now, since he promised to inform you about this, I would like to know which edition has covered this remote session.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U6	Thank you for that question. In my opinion, this topic was exhausted yesterday and I do not consider it necessary to hold a debate on this issue any more, because you have also arrived at the Riigikogu meeting today, as have 85 other members of the Riigikogu. Mr. Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U7	Thank you. I cannot agree with your view that this issue has been exhausted. This issue is not exhausted. The mere indication that not all members will be present at the meeting indicates that not everyone has this information. But I don't want to argue about it, I want to know. Since the Chairman of the Board of the Riigikogu, Mr Jüri Ratas, specifically said that this has been done, I would like to know when it was done and through which media it was done. It's about the press, because that's what he said. Are we saying that the Chairman of the Board of the Riigikogu, Mr Jüri Ratas, has given us untrue information? I'd like to know that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U8	As I said, this subject received a very thorough approach yesterday, and I do not consider it necessary that we reopen this debate here today. Currently 89 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U9	Thank you! Yesterday the President of the Riigikogu said that the Riigikogu website states that we will work in the form of teleworking until the end of April, but I do not see it. Every time we talk about the website, it should be on the first page of the website, not that we should look for it in the drop down list. Do you know if this information has been removed from here and modified according to my request, as I suggested? We do not know how long this pandemic will last, how long we will fight it. For people to have a glimpse of hope, perhaps we could formulate it so that we leave teleworking as soon as possible when our special or emergency allows?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U10	Thank you. The Board of the Riigikogu decided that Riigikogu meetings will take place until the end of this session, i.e. by the end of April in the form of distance participation. This decision of the Bureau was unanimous, and this decision of the Bureau was also agreed by the Board of Elders, where all the political groups took part. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U11	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! I'm asking you to go to a real job. I know perfectly well that the Riigikogu is in session, and I think the other 100 colleagues know that too. Three weeks here, a week off, and it's remote session time. Let's go to work!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U12	Thank you, Peter Ernits! I would like to thank you for this constructive proposal, and I would also advise you to say this to your groupmate, Kalle Grünthal. Please, Mr. Grünthal!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U13	Thank you, Mr President. I will put this question very briefly and specifically. I was informed yesterday about the high-level remote that the media had been informed and that they were allowed to inform me. As of today, this has not been done and Mr Kruusimäe's story has now shown that it is not on the website either. My question is that I would still like to know when the point one was notified. And point two is that this information depends on whether the session of the Riigikogu that we are currently conducting is legitimate or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U14	85 members of the Riigikogu participated in the attendance check and registered as present, so the session of the Riigikogu is legitimate. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U15	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Good morning. I join my colleague Peter's opinion one hundred percent so we can get to work. And I can say that everyone in the Socialist Group knows and has read and received e-mail on how the sessions take place. Interestingly, some members of the EKRE Group do not know that. So let's get to work!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U16	Thank you. There are no further procedural questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U17	The first item on today's agenda is the third reading of the Financial Supervision Authority Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act amending other laws. The commission has proposed a final vote. But before that, we have a chance to negotiate. Would the groups like to speak? There is no wish to speak, so we will go to the final vote. Can we go to the vote? Thank you! Good Riigikogu, I will vote before you on the draft law amending the Financial Supervision Authority Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws 326. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U18	88 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U19	Our second item today is the third reading of the draft law amending the anti-corruption law initiated by the Government of the Republic (complying with the recommendations of GRECO and limiting the public access to declarations of interests of the heads of security authorities). Here too, the lead committee has proposed a final vote, but prior negotiations. Please, do the groups have a wish to speak? Yes, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, Eduard Odines!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen in this Chamber and behind the screen! Basically, neither I nor the Social Democrats have anything against this bill, and I believe that many of you, too, have nothing to do with it. These are GRECO's recommendations, these are things that have been suggested to us by our European colleagues, and as we see and know, our government has also considered these recommendations to be correct. Unfortunately, it's not the previous government, it's the new one, but it's that. These are certainly important changes in the declaration and disclosure of our interests. Ministers' political advisors, as we know from recent history, sometimes have a very large and not always very positive impact on ministers and ministerial decisions. And the fact that their interests will be declared is an important step. However, I say that all the changes that we are voting on today are quite cosmetic and, in fact, may not lead us to eradicate the root of evil, or political corruption. Political corruption in its broader sense is what we need to tackle more vigorously. As we know and have heard a great deal again in recent history, funding political corruption is the evil root of political parties. And I am very sad that in the last few years, even in the longer term, Parliament has not come to take seriously the issue of political party funding. The Commission on Financing of Political Parties has repeatedly and repeatedly put forward concrete proposals on how to do its work better, clearer and more effectively. Unfortunately, Parliament has not reached the debate on these proposals. We are here to declare interests, to deal with other cosmetics, but to deal with big things where big money is going and where every election is under increasing pressure from political parties to raise money, and if it doesn't succeed in the honest way, then there is an unfair way, unfortunately, that is not what we are dealing with. Last week I was on a live radio show and for an hour I answered citizens' questions about what to do with corruption in Estonia. The citizens have accused me of dealing with the doctors' candy boxes and counting the officials' property, but we don't do big things. We don't deal with Porto Franco, we don't deal with millions, we don't deal with hundreds of millions that go into crisis measures, for example. Just recently, we also gave up the establishment of an appropriate committee of inquiry. So this issue is not only important to politicians; it is also important to our citizens. I think that immediately, in the near future, we should take care of these things. The local elections are already at the door, half a year from now, and as I mentioned earlier, pressure on political parties is increasing. The same case of Porto Franco, mentioned, shows that pressure is also quite high for politicians involved in local government work. We're moving on with the declarations. But we should also move forward, ladies and gentlemen, with the issues of party funding. We are not talking about the big principles; we are talking about certain technical matters that would help the Committee on Financing of Political Parties to do their work effectively. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U21	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U22	The Special Committee on Corruption here in the Riigikogu recently adopted an appeal to the Government of the Republic. The Special Committee on Corruption asks the Government, also on the basis of the proposals of the Political Financing Monitoring Committee itself, to speed up the drafting of a corresponding draft law specifying the powers of the Political Financing Monitoring Committee in the exercise of its tasks. The Special Committee on Corruption has called upon the Government to do so as a matter of urgency. This is also possible by our legislation and good practice and, in this case, we should not have a development plan. The Special Committee on Corruption means that we have a local election coming up and that we urgently need to deal with issues concerning the funding of political parties. The Special Committee on Corruption also called on the Government to propose that a round table be convened without delay and as a matter of urgency, composed of representatives of all political parties, in order to discuss these proposals as soon as possible, effectively, and to find political consensus. We need to move faster with this. In the same way, in its approach to the government, the Special Committee on Corruption also concerns the government to complement the anti-corruption action plan with the provisions on the funding of political parties. Right now, they're missing. All these steps would show the public, show them citizens who are calling live, that politicians want to deal with real things, not cosmetic improvements, which simply widen the circle of declarants. I call on you both to support the draft that we have on the agenda today, as it will also take us forward on this issue, but I also call on you to support all other initiatives in this Chamber today, too, one of the debates that will help us overcome political corruption, which will help us stop the stealing of public money by dishonest politicians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U23	The political groups have no more requests to speak, so we can go to the final vote. Can we go to the vote? Thank you. Good Riigikogu, I will vote before you on the draft law amending the anti-corruption law initiated by the Government of the Republic (complying with the recommendations of GRECO and limiting the public declaration of interests of the heads of security authorities) 323. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U24	72 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 17 against and 1 abstention. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U25	Our third item on the agenda today is the first reading of the Riigikogu resolution "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" submitted by the Social Democratic Party Group. The initiators' report is made by Lauri Läänemets, member of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U26	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democrats have proposed to propose to the Government of the Republic. The content of the proposal concerns elections, the financing of elections, the impact of the money on the results of the elections. Its main objective is, of course, to reduce situations that could lead to a corrupt path. The proposal is that the Government of the Republic prepare an analysis and submit proposals to the Riigikogu on the basis of which to reduce the impact of money and the waste of money in elections, including the possibilities to limit election costs and the volume of election advertising. That would be the case in elections to the European Parliament, elections to the Riigikogu, municipal elections and, in fact, referendums. There are two points in presenting this bill. First of all, the Social Democrats have always believed, and perhaps many of you will remember that we have been to the platform with these thoughts and have tabled the corresponding drafts, so that in elections people should first and foremost decide according to the visions, promises and weather vision of the political parties. And this content is not determined by the huge advertising volumes that we usually see on TV before the elections and maybe meet on the street, but, above all, by communicating and justifying people. There is actually this side that the more even, the more even, the more uniform, of course, but the more even this election campaign is from its own volumes, the more even it is from the election campaign. In the sense that people's choice is more equal. As we know, a lot of advertising is available for a lot of money, and so-called 'voices' can also be bought. In fact, there should be other choices. However, the second reason why we have tabled this draft decision concerns precisely this side of corruption. If we recall now, recently, at the beginning of this year, there was reason to be concerned again, because one party, the Secretary-General of one party, had an advisor to one minister all in a situation that allegedly involved various corrupt activities. And when we think about why all of this is happening, we end up out there, it's about money, it's about the need for money. We can both regulate all kinds of laws and repeat how to reduce and how to prevent and improve the work of the investigative bodies, and we can also adopt all kinds of noble principles and codes of conduct in this Chamber, but in fact we should also deal with the other side. And the other side is that when we reduce the need for big money in politics, we actually automatically reduce situations where no one does, I don't know whether to resist temptation or anything else, and we're going down this corrupt path. If we look at the costs, in 2020, state support from the political parties' budgets amounted to 67 to 91% of the budgets of those parties that belong to Parliament. Ideally, by looking at these amounts, there could be a lot of money and opportunity for an election campaign and party work. And the second thing it talks about is that if the state is the largest donor of parliamentary parties, then the state could easily say what it expects, how these parties function in terms of their funding, and it could easily, by this logic, also impose restrictions or restrictions on these financial situations. Now, a little bit more specific than what this government analysis might contain. The upper limit. In fact, it has been said here how we limit election costs, in real life it could be possible by idea. This could be possible, and this could, of course, also be possible in terms of the volume of advertising. Yeah, maybe social media so far has been difficult to track this volume of advertising, to see who and where he spends how much. I'm saying it's not that complicated today. Different social media platforms bring out in public how many people have bought advertising there. It does not matter whether it is an organisation or an individual, it can be monitored. For example, if we are talking about restrictions on the volume of the election ad, if I am not mistaken, it was Germany, where there are also places where it is agreed that yes, you see, every political list that goes to the elections has so many surfaces in the public space, you can use them, everyone can use them equally and there are no problems. In real life, it has been applied in the world. Now the type of advertising that has a particularly strong impact on election decisions, and which is still the most expensive, is television advertising. Television advertising can be measured very clearly and very easily, and it is actually possible to agree on television advertising. For example, even this version, where it is agreed that all parties who stand as candidates in these elections, such as the Riigikogu elections, are allowed the only television advertising at those times in the places that the state has booked and then distributed equally among the parties. It's a very easy thing to do. There's a lot of details and nuances, that's true. That is why we have not ourselves brought out this prepared draft and the prepared vision. In fact, the government probably has more resources to analyze all the facets and make sure nothing gets overlooked. And at the end of the presentation of the bill, I would like to remind you once again that there are two points. One is that elections should be held on a more equal footing, and the other, a very topical issue, is corruption. In fact, we need to reduce the impact of money on elections in order to avoid situations where political parties are planning major campaigns, spending, no money and are going down a corrupt road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U27	Good waitress, there's at least one question for you. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U28	[[Remote connection]] Thanks! Good Lauri! This is how I ask whether the government should also analyse donation regulations when carrying out its analysis. Today we know that only natural persons are allowed to donate to political parties, and not legal. Maybe we could discuss legal matters. Or another possibility that donations will be banned at all and there will be some other financing system, even most of the state budget. After all, we know from history that there has been a lot of bullshit on the part of different parties with this donation. Some people donate, some people don't know where he's got the money, they find it in a man's closet or somewhere. Can we review this donation regulation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U29	Yes, thank you! A very correct question, or rather a good point. There have certainly been quite a lot of these problems here lately, we know that, unfortunately, especially in relation to one of the departments of government. But let's just say no one's left unscathed. Of course, if we are now talking about reducing the impact of money on elections, then we need to look at the whole picture and then we will probably have to take on this side of donations. I guess this will eventually require a bigger debate, but it can be held once the question has been analysed and here we have different options ahead.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U30	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U31	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! It's a very good subject, and there's other things to ask. If a political party has formed such an opportunity that members who support in a world-view but do not want to be members of that political party or are members of another political party, do they have the opportunity to be a so-called supporter? And can a supporter make donations?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U32	Thank you. Yes, in fact, all members and non-members can make donations. The purpose of our draft is not to limit the donation of someone, but to limit the amount of money that is spent on elections, for example, per party. I think we should definitely not get into a situation where people or no one in society cannot donate to a party. I think that there may even have been some impact on democracy if we are all financed only by the state. That should definitely not be the target. The possibility of donation must remain, the question is where and how this money will be used. It is a question of reducing the pressure on this so-called money or the pressure on the need for money. In fact, this money could be used more than anything else. Well, if someone's gonna say I know it's said what we're gonna do with the money. Very simple: in fact, you could analyse more, order more research, perhaps more to deal with the organisation in the sense that the better the party organisation works, the better the political power could be to know people's concerns and people's wishes in different regions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U33	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U34	[[Remote connection]] Good waitress! Do the drafters today also have the knowledge that media publications have made a common 'price table' for all political parties? Or do they treat parties differently?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U35	Yes, thank you! In my opinion, the very right question in this sense is that this is what the government must discuss, examine and analyse in the context of this decision, and finally provide some sort of solution. Because really, there is a situation in Estonia today where you can say that one party is, you see, much less spent on advertising in the same volume as the other party, because it was given a discount. But in my opinion, it would be very honest, it's my opinion, if everyone had the same price everywhere, it doesn't matter how much you buy advertising. Then, too, the possibilities that hidden funding or forbidden donation are hidden in this discount will disappear. There is no doubt that this needs to be analysed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U36	Ladies and gentlemen, at the processing of this draft, i.e. OE, each member of the Riigikogu has a question for each of the two rapporteurs. Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U37	Thank you. Thank you, Lauri, for this introduction. Obviously, if the election costs are more or less similar in size, then the need for such funding will also decrease for each party, as advertising costs are the highest in the election. Do you think this could go on with a discussion on changing the model of state funding, redesigning? If political parties have more or less similar financial needs, then perhaps these state budget contributions could be more or less the same for at least some base money. Otherwise, we will continue to produce larger and larger sums of money for larger parties. Have you also thought that it would be like offering more equal opportunities to political parties in a'start-up' position? Otherwise, the smaller ones will always be smaller and the bigger ones will always be bigger.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U38	Thank you. I think it is worth discussing. This is not directly the subject of this draft; we could set up this debate separately in this Parliament. But no doubt, as you asked, and as you said in your question, yes, today's financing system is one that undoubtedly favours maintaining such a situation as much as possible. There's nothing to do. There is a certain inequality and there is actually a certain impact on democracy, there is a certain effect on the possibility that new political forces will emerge or some greater falls and there will be a smaller increase in this effect. But surely the fact is that if you have a larger party, it may not always mean that you have more seats in the Riigikogu and it shows the size of the party. But a certain size also inevitably involves more work and work. Some difference in funding may be just reasonable. Where does the border run from, it's the debate in this hall, I'd be happy to discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U39	Mr. Karilaid, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U40	[[Remote connection]] I have a procedure. I regret that the draft rapporteur could not, as a whole, present an ethical prism in his presentation, perhaps because of time constraints, how much his home party owes to some commercial banks and whether or not it has somehow influenced this independent policy making. But maybe then, at the next stage of the presentation, you can talk about it. Still, we would like his party to be ethical and honest, too, but now the report is incomplete.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U41	Unfortunately, it wasn't very procedural. Riina Sikkut, please ask your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U42	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Good Lauri! I would ask about two things that have not yet been dealt with. One is how you see the role of membership fees. And another: really, whatever the scheme is, whether we limit advertising or the number of donors, in the end it is still possible to find a way to go by or find a solution that is suitable for ourselves, but also a corrupt solution. In this sense, I consider it very important to work on the side of supervision so that the ICTY can actually illuminate as many corners as possible and bring to light what is not in accordance with law and good practice. Do you agree that whatever we do with the donation and campaign costs, but that there are better ways of monitoring is inevitable?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U43	Thank you. First, the membership party. Well, I don't think anyone's arguing about the fact that the greater part of the party's budget is made up of membership fees, the stronger this political power is. And the better. As far as this is really about the monitoring side is concerned, I agree: as I said before, both are important. Firstly, it is important what we are trying to do, reduce or prevent with this bill that someone should go somewhere in the first place on a corrupt road, because he needs a lot of money for election advertising and election expenses. But the other side is the side of surveillance. And when we think about this side of supervision, both the ICTY and the Chancellor of Justice have made quite a number of proposals on how supervision can be improved. The ERJK has even made several of these proposals to the Riigikogu; we are all well aware of them, but unfortunately, so far these changes have not been made. If we look at the anti-corruption action plan that the government approved here a few months ago, it is indeed, as Mr Odines said earlier in his speech: all the important things and all the important issues are reflected there, but what is missing is the fight against political corruption, or at least the plan to do so. If we have listened to the Minister of Justice, he has said that yes, we are going to analyse, we are going to talk to different parties, we are going to set up committees and someday they will come before the Riigikogu. In this sense, it is sad that, as we know, the government currently in office... from the surface of corruption is wrong to say, but partly because of corruption. The reason for the collapse of the previous government was, in fact, very large and regrettable possible cases of corruption. And, if we look at this in favour of supervision, in fact, today, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is also discussing a draft tabled by the Socialists on improving the work of the Committee on the Monitoring of the Financing of Political Parties and addressing certain shortcomings in the law. The government has given the opinion that they are dealing with the matter themselves and better. That's a shame. I hope that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will find another way today, because a good thing does not need to be analyzed, but simply does not need to be analysed. These are very simple things. If Parliament has written in the law, for example, that it is possible to detain state budget money if the party has broken the law, but it simply does not say how to do it, then we could write it down there. After all, the idea exists, the will of the legislator exists, it is simply not clear how to do it. And there's more of that in the law. So why do they say we're analyzing? Why do they say we're watching? Why do they say we're discussing it? I don't know about that, but it should definitely be dealt with now, not at the end of the year, and not before the Riigikogu elections find that oh, now it hasn't arrived.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U44	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U45	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Can you judge from the Commission's debate, or generally a little, why it is that the Social Democrats have made this proposal for a more equal and fairer political struggle in one format or another for at least a decade, which I have been in the ranks of this party, probably even longer, but, frankly, two major political parties, the Reform Party and the Centre Party, whether they have been in opposition or coalition, have not supported it in absolute substance? All kinds of technical pretexts have been found that there must be analysis, thought, debate, but in reality it has not been supported. Is the reason why they are simply enjoying this certain competitive advantage with the large amount of money with which they campaign, or is there any other reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U46	Thank you. Unfortunately, in the Commission, this is not the way we have discussed this issue in particular, or at least no party representative has expressed his thoughts in such a way that I can bring them out right now. But now, to think about and remember, it has been really like this that we have made a lot of different proposals that, in terms of democracy, concern the whole electoral process to be fairer and more equal and to reduce the impact of money on it, as well as reducing the assumptions that can lead to corruption. Indeed, it has always been opposed for various reasons at all times. Even now, as we can see, in terms of strengthening the work of the Political Financing Monitoring Commission, this is not going in any way. Once again, it is necessary to set up committees and discuss and discuss them. And if I think about it now, I can only talk about what kind of feeling I've developed, it might be right, it might be wrong, but on top of that, there really has been a feeling that at least the Reform Party and the Centre Party would probably lose their position today. At least there is the impression that if the funding rules were to be tightened, if the control rules were to be tightened, if the funding were to go on a more uniform footing, if the electoral campaigns were to be brought to a more uniform footing, the impact of the large amount of money that the two major parliamentary parties today have will be reduced. Let's just say you have to work like those who have less money. And obviously, it's not obvious, but at least it seems to me that it's understood that life is getting a lot more complicated. Perhaps in the future, after the elections, these lines of power will be completely different in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U47	No more questions for you. Thank you. Paul Puustusmaa, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, will make a presentation on behalf of the Steering Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U48	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. And, of course, I would also like to thank Lauri for being very meaningful and very thorough and giving an extremely good overview of what this draft reflects or wishes to receive. Above all, of course, the idea is to set the limit on pre-election winning weapons according to what is foreseen in the draft. Of course, it also reflects a certain naivety, and in a good sense, I don't want to be sarcastic or evil at all, in the sense that it may indeed be asked that if, for example, the Social Democrats were more popular and money-wise, they would put forward this bill. You don't know. Let's go to the bill. First of all, this bill is written out of a really very sincere wish. And before I present the views of the Commission, I can say that this whole Commission session and this debate reflected the concern that, in fact, our people have a desire to improve the situation, and that it is a wish across parties, to sweep down these negative angles, so that governance and the political fight are more balanced and equal. The procedure for this draft has been very logical. It was initiated on 18 January, was accepted on 19 January and was held on 23 March in the Commission. Toomas Kivimägi and the members of the Commission Kalle Grünthal, Andrei Korobeinik, Oudekki Loone, Lauri Läänemets, Paul Puustusmaa, Urmas Reinsalu, Marko Torm and Mart Võrguship took part in the Commission's discussion. Kaarel Tarand, vice-president of the ERJK Committee on Financing of Political Parties, and adviser Zoja Masso, and adviser to the Public Law Service of the Ministry of Justice, Mariko Jõeorg-Jurtshenko, were also invited. There was also a certain kind of emotion in the debate, because, as I said, it was genuinely a desire to improve the situation, but also this wandering and searching was...... the whole framework of this draft was not quite clear, however, it remained a bit vague, but, as I said, it was sincere. [[The connection's breaking up.]] I will then reflect in detail what has happened in the Commission. Lauri Läänemets presented the draft decision of the Riigikogu to the Commission and explained that the purpose of the draft is to propose to the Government of the Republic an analysis by 21 May and, on this basis, submit proposals to the Riigikogu to reduce the impact and waste of money. He pointed out that large electoral budgets often result in political parties going illegal in seeking support and trying to obtain money through prohibited donations or other prohibited activities. He felt that in elections, people should make their choice according to substantive election promises, not advertising. Advertising, unfortunately, has a significant impact on people's choices, including in political elections and referendums. Lauri Läänemets also noted that a decision was made to submit a draft in the form of a proposal to the Government of the Republic, as the changes in question require a lot of complex analyses and consideration of different areas, and this would be a pretty good starter package in this respect. He said that they could not directly suggest what this would be like in the case of advertising restrictions, but, as he pointed out in today's speech, the party could be limited to EUR 400000 to EUR 500000 per election. I asked whether he thought it was important, not how much money is spent on advertising, but rather how advertising is done. It looks like it's real life. On this point, I was given the answer by Kaarel Tarand, who said that the legislator had come to the conclusion a long time ago that the term 'campaign' was useless from the position of supervision and that, according to earlier practice, each party itself set its own election campaign period, which was different for political parties. Therefore, the Political Financing Monitoring Commission did not have previously comparable data which could be analysed. But now, of course, they exist. The overall starting point so far has been that political communication is a permanent activity of political parties not only linked to elections, and the practice shows that campaigns are ongoing and ongoing. Hopefully, it will continue to be avoided in order to introduce the concept of campaign into the law. Kaarel Tarand also found that the rulebook of the political system definitely needed to be improved, and no one had any differences of opinion in this respect. On the basis of a number of benchmarks, the ERJK has found that the economic status of the political party system as a whole is not as good as it could be. This situation increases the risk for political parties to fall into the illegal path of funding. In the last decade, the income of political parties as a whole has not been in the same order of magnitude as the inevitable need for political parties to spend. He also said that when we talk about the need to limit funding, we cannot fail to stress that the level of funding for political parties has not changed over the last 15 years. Perhaps if we start to think about what life has done in the last 15 years, the funding of political parties has not changed during this period and the money for the party has not increased. The only way to increase the party's funding is to increase the popularity of the party, which would also give a pro rata share of the funding. Kaarel Tarand also explained that the current Minister of Justice has confirmed that the amendment of the party law will be undertaken and is expected to reach the intention of developing a new draft by the autumn of this year. It would also be good if the Ministry of Justice further involved scientists and civil society to a wider extent in drafting the draft. The aim of the amendments should not only be to modernise the model of funding for political parties, but should be to make political competition more open and more equal opportunities compared to the current one. In order to achieve greater legitimacy, it is particularly important to achieve greater turnout. In addition, the aim of amending party law could also be for the party system to be financially secure and stable. This would reduce the risk of corruption as a whole. He also pointed out that any change to the funding of political parties should consider how it could be effectively monitored. One of the proposals that could be considered would be to provide in law that the party should no longer have negative net assets and that each party could spend only as much as it has real financial opportunities at the moment. However, as far as the support paid to political parties from the state budget is concerned, it must be made clear whether it is sufficient and whether it is fairly distributed, as it creates additional incentives for the risk of corruption. All of this can be regulated if the knowledge and knowledge in Estonia are sufficiently applied. That's what he said. I also asked him separately whether he felt that when talking about the need to reduce the advertising costs of political parties, it actually meant that we needed to reduce the funding of political parties as a whole. And here, in response, Mr Tarand stressed that it was difficult to say how much support should be paid to political parties as a whole. In the case of state budget subsidies, the amount of support paid to political parties has remained the same for 15 years, and the parties have also not had the courage to increase this amount themselves, because it is clearly not sufficiently popular for associations. Political parties would have been able to increase public support and thereby reduce the risk of corruption, but no party has taken such a step. [[The connection's breaking up.]] At the same time, political parties have failed to increase the rate of other legal revenues. No matter how much the advertising costs imposed on political parties and no matter what it is, there is always a chance to circumvent and find unfair competitive advantages, such as in different online environments, which are difficult or impossible to control. Marko Storm said that the previous Prime Minister of Estonia and the current speaker of the Riigikogu proposed a solution a few months ago so that political parties could only receive funding from the state budget. Has the ERJK discussed this possibility or what prospects would such a funding scheme as a whole have? On this point, Kaarel Tarand replied that the ERJK had not formed a position on this issue. This would probably make it very easy to monitor the funding of political parties if the money came from a specific source. The question is, of course, whether it would help to avoid unfair access to money. In this context, there are a number of questions, such as the principles on which money would be paid to political parties and how this would support the democratic competition of political parties and would it not make political parties essentially public authorities. However, each voluntary association or organisation also requires contributions from its members. But, as we know, politically, this wish for members' contributions is sacred and great, but it is extremely difficult to realise it. The woodland asked that if the ERJK were to actually start monitoring the parties' advertising costs in the future, how could this be technically done and whether this was possible. On this point, Kaarel Tarand replied that it was deeply problematic, and these reasons were different and numerous. Zoja Masso added that the proposal in the draft to set a limit on the costs of the election campaign does not force parties to spend less, because the money beyond the limit can be spent on other political activities which, in substance, are no different from campaign activities. Lauri Läänemets replied that the purpose of the draft was not to limit all the expenses of political parties, but only to the costs of election advertising. It is very good when a party uses the rest of its money for other purposes, such as ordering analyses...... better to work, etc. [[The connection's breaking up.]] For example, if you set a cap on television advertising, does the ERJK consider it possible to monitor compliance with the maximum limit on television advertising? On this point, Kaarel Tarand replied that this was difficult because the ERJK cannot request data from third parties on private agreements and therefore it is very difficult to verify how much a party spent on advertising and to what extent. Then we had long questions and disputes about whether this is possible or not and whether it is a legal problem or a technical problem. The replies of the ERJC revealed that technically there is no problem, but legally this is all the more problematic. Mr Jõeorg-Jurtshenko said that he could not presently express the position of the Government of the Republic, because the draft had not been sent to the Government of the Republic to shape the position. On behalf of the Ministry of Justice, however, he pointed out some aspects that merit consideration. If the draft decision receives the support of the Riigikogu's plenary session, the Government of the Republic will take up this decision in the best possible way. The Government of the Republic has decided that by September this year the Ministry of Justice will prepare a draft for the development of an intention to improve the supervision of political parties' funding. The setting of limits on expenditure raises concerns and risks of misuse. For example, an electoral campaign can theoretically be ordered and paid for before the election period has been established and in this case there will be no costs to which the limit would apply during the election period. It may also be asked whether it is reasonable to set a uniform limit for all elections, or whether the electoral campaigns and the resources spent on them should be of different sizes for different elections, whether we are taking municipal elections or elections to the Riigikogu or the European Parliament elections. Jõeorg-Jurtshenko explained that, when it comes to this draft Decision, it should also be noted that, in the case of significant changes, their effects as a whole must be assessed. The setting of a cap on expenditure is an important change that requires in-depth analysis and such an analysis cannot be carried out in haste. Issues relating to political parties would be recommended to resolve as consensually as possible, including wider sections of society. The time frame proposed in the draft decision, which was originally 1 May, is unrealistic in view of the current crisis and does not allow for a proper analysis. Urmas Reinsalu then noted that Estonia has an analysis of the political system, which includes an estimated perspective on how to reform the political system, including the amendment of the party law. The Government of the Republic can make use of this analysis, and the draft decision awaits the proposals of the Government of the Republic in particular and, according to Reinsalu, the time frame proposed in the draft is sufficient. In addition, Yurchenko replied that the Ministry of Justice sent proposals from the analysis of the political system to the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu as early as 2016, which also covered many of the above-mentioned topics. It is difficult to say what the Government of the Republic or the Minister of Justice would think of Reinsalu's proposal to use this 2016 analysis. Kalle Grünthal considered that the members of the Commission should be able to examine the analysis of the political system referred to by Reinsalu and only then could they shape their position on the draft decision. According to Kalle Grünthal, it is not reasonable to rush into processing this draft. Toomas Kivimägi stressed that this was a draft decision, and according to the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, the draft decision is not sent to the Government of the Republic for an opinion. According to this law, draft laws are sent to the Government of the Republic for opinion. For the first reading of the bill, it is possible to examine the various analyses and to express your views in the Riigikogu's plenary and to vote accordingly. Urmas Reinsalu considered that in the case of a draft decision, the Government of the Republic really had too little time to make its proposals and it would be generous for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, with the consent of the author, to make the deadline for the Government of the Republic in the draft decision later. Lauri Läänemets supported this idea and said that this deadline could indeed be later, for example on 1 October 2021. There was no further discussion at length, and the chairman of the committee, Toomas Kivimägi, proposed an amendment to the draft decision on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs amending the deadline given to the Government of the Republic in the draft decision for drafting proposals. It was proposed to replace the part of the text "by 1 May 2021" with the part "by 1 October 2021." This proposal was a position, a consensus and was also adopted. And then there were procedural decisions, where it was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and that the final vote on the draft be taken on 6 April, or today. On its side were Toomas Kivimägi, Andrei Korobeinik, Lauri Läänemets, Urmas Reinsalu, Marko Storm and Mart Võrguship, opposed Kalle Grünthal and Paul Puustusmaa, with no abstentions. Paul Puustusmaa, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, was appointed rapporteur and the decision was consensual. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U49	Thank you! There's a question for you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U50	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I have a question: did the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also discuss how many people at once are considered as campaigns? And if there was a question here as to whether the supporters can support the parties, if, for example, the supporters form an NGO, can the NGO support the party? Or if the supporters form a private limited company to support the party by, for example, selling some reflectors, can this limited company donate its own profits to support the party?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U51	[[Remote connection]] Yes, thank you very much for your question. First of all, as far as this campaign thing is concerned, there was so much talk as I said earlier that there was a strict recommendation from the ERJK not to legitimise the concept of a campaign as a legal definition. It's just making a bigger mess. All the more so, the political activities of political parties, where there is also this advertising, where there is advertising and where there is political activity, are actually taking place all year round and it is difficult to define the campaign. However, as regards the second part of the question of funding by non-profit organisations, we did not discuss this directly in the Commission. However, it is also clear that this draft decision did not address the principal changes to the financing model because, in this case, if we were to change the principle......... and take it in the direction that legal persons could support parties, there have been such ideas, such proposals have been repeatedly. [[The connection's breaking up.]] Kaarel Tarand has also supported the idea that it is time to consider whether it is reasonable to ban the donation of legal persons. That [the thought] has sounded. However, there has been no political decision on this, and it was not discussed in the Commission either.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U52	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U53	Thank you. Honourable Commission waitress. You have now talked for a very long time about all kinds of world affairs related to political activity and its organisation. I would like to understand specifically in the context of this draft, which concerns the limitation of campaign volumes, either financially or otherwise, which is the actual content of this proposal. Of course, there are still a thousand different issues around, which are all important to address, but on this particular subject: what were the views expressed by the Members of the Commission on this proposal? Was this proposal supported that there should be a cap on the volume of the campaign, or was it not supported? Who expressed what views in a name, and what were their arguments?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U54	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Evgeny. In fact, I spoke on this subject and I also said that the words of Lauri western forest were such that they did not foresee a financial limit, but he suggested that it could be EUR 400000 or EUR 500000. That was the offer, but there was no big discussion over that amount. Because, yes, the debate leaned like other questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U55	Good Commission waitress, there are no more questions for you. Thank you! Now we are opening negotiations, the floor is for the representatives of the political groups and the committees. Please, does anyone have a wish? On behalf of the Central Party Group, Oudekki Loone, please! Okay. Good Oudekki, we couldn't reach you. Would you please try again? Yeah, let's try it again. We can't get in touch with Oudekki Loone right now. Okay. Lauri West Forest. Let's hope in that time we can reconnect with Oudekki Loone. In the meantime, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, Lauri Läänemets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U56	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Socialists, I would ask for this draft to be supported. Because I think we all agree that the relatively bad things that have come to light this year and which have come to light in the past years are relevant to the funding of political parties, those activities that are not legally permitted, which are either directly corruption or are currently involved in the investigation of possible corruption, should be excluded. And I think we could all agree that, if possible, we should take decisions in this Chamber to prevent such situations. This bill actually has two objectives. One objective is to create more equal opportunities for elections to the various political forces, both for those who are represented in Parliament and for those who are not represented in Parliament today. And the second aim is to reduce the chances that the great need for money to make large commercials or expensive ads could lead to political corruption by someone or by a party. I believe that it is in the interests of the country to take decisions on the functioning of democracy and, in fact, on the basis of which both objectives can be resolved so that we have fairer and fairer elections. The fact is, if more money is needed, that money will be sought. And when the money is being sought, unfortunately, a person or organization is slipping and going the way that shouldn't go. So if we reduce the pressure by imposing restrictions on election ads, that we restrict the volume of ads, then we will automatically reduce the need for funding or money in the election campaign. And we will automatically reduce the need that if this money is not enough from the state budget and if it is not enough from the members' donations, then this money will go somewhere to look for it, and it will be done in a way that is not allowed, which is not appropriate for democracy, which does not support democratic governance, democratic elections. So I would ask you to support this draft so that we can discuss further in the autumn the government's proposals on how to do all of this more precisely and specifically. Once again, I will call for support. Because it would be possible for everyone, including the members of the Honourable Reform Party and the Centre Party, to come to computers right now and press this button soon, so that no one could hear or notice, and now no one will vote on this draft decision and we will not get enough votes together. Respectables! There'll be a vote soon. Take this opportunity, do not abstain! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U57	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U58	[[Remote connection]] Hi! I hope I can hear and see now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U59	Very nice.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U60	Absolutely! I'd like some more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U61	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U62	First of all, I congratulate the authors of this proposal on drawing attention to one of the most serious problems of our democracy. In the great sense of privatization of the last century, we have also privatized our elections. Our social debate is no longer held in public space. Our election campaigns, which should be the highlight of this debate, have become the selling of sausage on private premises. We do not discuss streets, squares, community houses or freely accessible media. We sell television clips and post memos on Facebook and Twitter. By the way, social media platforms also require money to spread the message and sometimes censor these messages. Large foreign corporations shape the face of our democracy. This problem must be resolved. Our election advertising is on private premises, which means that private televisions and advertisers will charge citizens a separate tax for their participation in democracy, so that citizens can know which people and political associations want to represent them and what kind of programme. A convenient money machine doesn't have to do anything! Every few years, there is some kind of election, some private owners are growing at the expense of other freedoms. This gives them the opportunity to unfairly tilt democracy. We also heard in the discussion today that both street and TV owners still find ways to offer their favorite parties in some way more favorable offers. And all this has led to a situation where citizens are no longer equal. In Estonia, the total ban on exhibiting election advertising on private premises should be considered, and instead, public advertising spaces temporarily installed should be prepared, where each participating force will be provided free of charge with equivalent space. Then it's the thoughts and ideas, people, not the wallet. Many European countries have, in essence, also banned electoral advertising on television and, in addition, monitor rigorously all pre-election programmes and news to ensure equal conditions for both the government and the opposition. The effect of television is extremely strong compared to other mediums. At the same time, access to it is most limited. Television, as an instrument, allows people's opinions to be biased unfairly and in the short term, detracting from the overall democratic sense and, at the same time, undermining the ability of people with the smallest funds to stand together for their own interests. In Estonia, too, this path should be chosen and television advertising should be abandoned for its undemocratic nature, as well as for the fact that all political forces can actually and directly involve their members, their voters, all Estonian people in government. Our current system also means that the parties of the rich always have more opportunities to reach parliament than the parties of the poor. This means that business parties always have advantages over employees' parties. By subjugating the necessary debate during the election period to the requirements of the market auction, our parties are dependent on individual oligarchs. Indeed, it is high time to put an end to this and give citizens back equality and freedom. However, in the light of the foregoing, of course, this bill remains a bit toothless. It is simply said that the government here could analyse how to spend less money for elections, to actually admit this: our democracy must be saved from the teeth of large private companies. Elections will never have to be a money-making machine for the individual chosen. This isn't about a waste of money. This is not a question of inefficient use. This is about citizens' fundamental rights. Parliament must not remain so passive here. We must take on the role of our legislative power, we must defend our constitutional values and ensure that success in the economic sphere does not automatically lead to success in the political sphere. And vice versa. Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, the Centre Party is not against this bill. But we don't think that's enough. I call on everyone here: regardless of the party, regardless of its membership of the opposition or coalition, we will solve this problem ourselves in this Parliament. We actually find the consensus on how to regulate the organisation of the Estonian elections in a way that puts citizens' interests at the forefront! We actually implement our constitution, keep political discussion clearly and mainly in public space, and stop fattening this advertising space with public money from passive owners and foreign corporations! Convincing our citizens with ideas, discussing politics with them, representing the collective interests of our constituents, and no more selling them sausage! Let's build a better future together! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U63	The political groups have no further requests to speak. The commission has proposed a final vote on draft 317. Ladies and gentlemen, one small detail, however, before we can go to the final vote. In particular, the commission has also made one amendment to the draft decision, which they have fully taken into account. It's about the date. This amendment has been fully taken into account by the Commission. Now we go to the final vote. In the final vote, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is a decision requiring a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu. I therefore put to the vote before you the draft decision of the Riigikogu on Proposal for the Government of the Republic, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group, 317. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U64	20 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the draft decision, 26 against, with 0 abstentions. The draft decision was not supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U65	Our fourth item on the agenda today is the first reading of the draft law amending the law on atmospheric air protection initiated by the Government of the Republic. The Minister of the Environment, Tõnis Mölder, will make a presentation on behalf of the Government. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U66	[[Remote connection]] Happy Members of the Riigikogu! You have before you a draft law amending the law on atmospheric air protection initiated by the Government of the Republic. The main objective of the draft is to bring the law into line with the European Union's emission allowance trading system and with the requirements of the so-called'shared obligation regulation' for the period from 2021 to 2030. The new period of the European Union's emissions trading system will also mean some changes in the activities of companies. The number of emission allowances allocated free of charge to operators shall be increased or reduced annually depending on changes in production levels in the previous two calendar years. To this end, the operator shall submit an annual report on the level of production to the Environmental Board in addition to the emissions report by the end of March at the latest. The quantities of amended units shall be approved by the European Commission. The current law requires free units to be allocated by the end of February. With this draft, we want to make the allocation of free credits more flexible, so that credits can be allocated even when the production level reports have been submitted and the adjusted quantities of units have been approved by the European Commission. The amendment aims at reducing the administrative burden because, if production level reports are submitted after the allocation of free units, there may be a situation where the units allocated to operators do not correspond to the actual production level and therefore a process to allocate or recover units has to be initiated. In addition, the creation of flexibility will allow operators to submit both an emissions report and a production level report at the same time. This allows both reports to be verified at the same time, thereby reducing administrative costs. The draft also amends the provisions on the use of the funds of the Modernisation Fund. We can see that, like other revenues from CO2 trading, the funds of the Modernisation Fund should also be planned in the context of the country's budgetary strategy process. This will allow resources to be channelled towards those areas where the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions is greatest, while also ensuring a country's long-term perspective on climate and energy investment. In addition, the draft amends the provisions concerning sectors outside the European Union's emissions trading system, the so-called'shared commitment decisions'. The period for the decision on the shared commitment ended in 2020. As of this year, the level of commitment allocated to the same sectors shall apply. It is therefore necessary to supplement the provisions of the existing laws also with regard to the regulation of a shared obligation. The collaborative commitment regulation foresees that the country will have to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions in these sectors in total by at least 13% compared to 2005 levels by 2030. To this end, the European Commission has calculated the quantity of national units allocated to each year for the 2021-2030 period. One unit equals one tonne of greenhouse gas emissions. Therefore, in order to meet the targets, emissions must be reduced at least annually to the extent that they remain below the amount of national units available. In addition, there are other technical amendments to the draft and we will bring the content of the draft into line with the new European regulations and parts of the directive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U67	Good Minister, you don't seem to have any questions. Thank you! Jevgeni Ossinovski will make a presentation on behalf of the Committee on the Environment. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U68	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu discussed this draft on 22 March and I will give you a brief overview of the progress of this debate. This is a beautiful draft of a technical nature, in which, indeed, these changes need to be made for the new period of trade in emissions are due to certain implementing decisions by the European Commission, as a result of which we need to clarify certain provisions. In this context, however, some broader climate policy issues were also addressed by the Commission, which may also be of interest to you. As has been said, the draft concerns two broad areas. One is the emissions trading system, where companies buy quota to pollute, and countries auction this quota. On the one hand, countries will benefit from this and, on the other hand, companies will have to pay to bring pollutants into the atmosphere in their activities. What, then, are the most important changes concerning the current draft? One of these concerns the Modernisation Fund. It is part of a new period of emission management system, which will create a new pocket to support countries' transition to a more environmentally friendly society and production. According to a representative of the Ministry of the Environment, this number of units of the Modernisation Fund is 7.7 million units for the new period, which means that it has a financial volume of about 300 million euros. Today, the money from the Modernisation Fund can be used for priority areas relating to the reconstruction of buildings, the greening of energy systems and heating systems. And while the current Act on atmospheric air protection, which has been amended here by the Riigikogu during its composition, was initially intended to make an open round for the predominantly modernisation fund, where various projects can be submitted, from which it is possible to select those that are approved, the Ministry of the Environment considers that the concept has now changed as a result of the European Commission's clarifications. In particular, individual projects require all state aid permits and, in addition, a preliminary ruling from the European Investment Bank, which is why today's state vision is that the system of such longer-term national measures rather than the way in which public competitions take place. Well, for example, from this modernisation fund, it would be possible to finance part of our thermal insulation programme for apartment buildings and should not apply for State aid for each project individually, so it would be easier to do so. Member of the Commission Ossinovski said that today's law proposed that at least 70% of the modernisation fund would go to these priority areas and asked if it could not be 100%. The representative of the Ministry of the Environment replied that the State did indeed have such an opportunity to provide for it. 70% is a minimum obligation for the directive, but at national level we can also target all 100% of these priority areas. Mr Ernits, a good colleague of the Committee on the Environment, asked more fundamental questions about the number of installations belonging to the emissions trading system in Estonia and why the quantity of units will be reduced annually by 2.2% over the next decade. The representative of the Ministry of the Environment replied that there are 11000 12000 installations in the emissions trading system across the European Union; there are 44 installations in Estonia that are part of the emissions trading system since 2021. There were 47 in the last period. Some have exited the system, like Kunda Nordic Cement and a boiler house that I don't remember right now and I'm not going to look for, but there was a boiler house that left the system. And 2,2% per year is indeed such a factor of linear reduction, which means that annual emission reductions in the system will be achieved in order to achieve a 43% reduction in the emissions trading system by 2030. So in order to get there, they're going to be reduced linearly. It has been a question of how much the quota price is today and how much it can grow. While the emissions trading system did not work in substance in the first half of the previous period, as the unit price was very low, below EUR 5 per tonne, as a result of certain regulatory changes towards the end of the previous decade, where units were withdrawn from the market, prices started to rise. In conjunction with the Paris climate agreement and the corresponding European Union decisions in this context, this price has been above EUR 20 in recent years. The representative of the Ministry of the Environment said that at the moment it is even close to EUR 40. This means that these projected revenues, for which we have taken into account that this is state revenue, we sell these units and companies have to buy them, that the projected revenues actually increase significantly compared to what we have foreseen. We have already planned some investments from these units here in the direction of climate neutrality, with regard to rail electrification, the purchase of radars, so that new wind areas can be opened up for development. In fact, there will be considerably more of these funds than we have planned so far. So if it has been discussed here how expensive it is to achieve climate neutrality for the Estonian state, then it will certainly be a great effort for the whole society, but our quota sales revenue will increase significantly and this will greatly facilitate this effort. How much could the unit price be by the end of the period, of course, no one knows at the moment. This depends very much on what the regulatory proposals that the European Commission will come up with for this summer will be and on the form in which they will be agreed between the Member States. With regard to increasing climate ambition by 2030, the agreement has been made to increase the overall ambition to 55% instead of 40%, i.e. a reduction in total greenhouse gas emissions compared to 1990. It was 40%, now it's up to 55. However, it is not yet known which instruments this 15% increase will take place, to what extent it will take place within, for example, the emissions trading system. There are different options, whether to add additional sectors or, for example, to increase the same linear reduction factor that was mentioned. These options are still open. As a result, by the end of the period, the price of the quota may be 55 euros per tonne, for example, more than that, let us say, 30 to 40%, could increase the income of our country. And, of course, for those companies that basically have our expensive oil shale power plants, this will mean the end of their activities even faster than they have so far wanted to make us believe. The second half of this draft concerns the area of "shared responsibilities." This is a separate regulation, which has then been clarified. And this is an area where countries have a duty to reduce CO2 emissions in certain sectors, which is not part of the emissions trading system. It mainly includes land use and agriculture, transport, small energy, we have little. But transport is one of the largest blocks in our case, where then we will have to reduce our total emissions by 13% compared to 2005. This is a very difficult task for us undoubtedly, because our transport emissions have been increasing all along with one of Europe's fastest and greatest levels of caring. This trend, unfortunately, does not seem to have an end. This draft specifies how emissions in this area are managed. It has now been agreed in the European Union that emissions in this area will lead to an annual target level up to 2030. Estonia also has this trajectory ahead of us that the annual CO2 emissions allowed in this area of shared commitments will decrease until 2030, and we must make sure that we do not pass it. Because if emissions in this area go beyond the target that has been set annually, then the quota in this area must be purchased. This is now the second quota when it was the first. It is traded between countries and its price is still unknown. And this could be considerably more expensive than the price of the quota for the emissions trading system, because the reduction of transport emissions actually has serious concerns for very large countries, such as Germany. If Germany does not fulfil its objective, it will have to buy a great deal of quota from other countries in this area on the market and, of course, this will also increase the price. We will then also transpose the corresponding clarifications from this directly applicable regulation into our law and hope that we will also be able to meet the beautiful ambitious targets set in this area. Although, frankly, at the moment, we do not have the necessary political decisions to keep us on the right track. But miracles can happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U69	You also have a few questions, at least one. Rock Hard starts.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U70	[[Remote connection]] Thanks! Have a nice noon! Good Evgeny, I have a question. You said that you discussed these issues more widely in the Commission. We have an electricity market law[the draft law supplementing] in the proceedings of the Riigikogu. With this law, the government is trying to reduce renewable energy charges for energy-intensive companies. There's nothing to do, it's a good plan, but smaller companies have to pay for it. So all of them have an increase in this remuneration compared to what it really is due to the normal reduction in fees. My question is whether this CO2 quota money could also be paid for a reduction in the renewable energy fee for this so-called energy-intensive companies. That would be a very good solution and, as I have heard, it will be done in Finland. Have you discussed this? Or at least discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U71	Thank you, Mr Tough. Quite in conjunction with Bill 344, which is exactly one figure ahead of what we are discussing today, it was not discussed. However, the question raised by the Commission was whether renewable energy fees could be paid out of quota units. There, representatives of the Ministry of the Environment hesitated to use it in particular from the Modernisation Fund. This was allowed to be clarified. But it is clear that this can be done from the overall quota revenue of the emissions trading system. And indeed, today, the government has brought before us a bill that will increase the 40% renewable energy fee for all consumers, apart from 70 of the largest companies. This is a predatory rise and, without doubt, this is a very unfair idea and proposal. Of course, it would be most helpful for both large consumers and all other people to cut the charges for renewable energy for all. This can be done, indeed, three times compared to today, with renewable energy charges being reduced in all ways so that we will have these next major fewer offers forecast by the Ministry of Economic Affairs in accordance with electricity market law this year and next year in order to achieve the 2030 target, so that we can finance them from quota revenues. And as I said, in fact, these quota sales revenue have been much better than we predicted because the price is higher. So we have free money there and it is very fair to have it at the expense of reducing the renewable energy fee for all. Not in such a way that 70 companies fall by 85% to the detriment of 40% renewable energy charges for all other businesses, both households and the rest of them. I'm sure that's unwarranted. A very relevant issue, and I hope that Parliament will find a consumer-friendly solution here in the context of this second draft, in 344 SE.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U72	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Since you seem to have a great deal to do with this, I'm going to ask you a little bit more specific. If Estonia were to have a surplus of units in the sector of a shared obligation due to an effective reduction in emissions, we would have the opportunity, if necessary, to compensate for the greenhouse gas emission limitation targets of the land use and forestry sector for the period 2021 to 2030. Would you speak up in a little simpler language, which means this forestry sector and land use?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U74	Well, now I've gone on a slippery road, so much I've talked about, I've raised further questions. The question is very relevant. I hope that I will not say anything wrong when I answer because I do not have this material at my disposal. This emission management system in the European Union is very complex, point one, so it is terribly difficult to explain it in simple language. For example, only one part of this system looks like this. . [[Shows the diagram.]] We're gonna need about three more blocks in here, then we're gonna get the whole picture. The area of shared obligations and the emissions trading system, these are the two separate systems that we talked about today. One is for companies, particularly the energy sector, but also for larger industries, such as the cement or metal industries, where companies purchase units traded on the market, which are sold by countries. The area of the shared commitment is not an obligation for companies, but for countries, i.e. countries must reduce emissions there and trade in other units, with AEAs taking place between countries. Then there is the third area, with the beautiful abbreviation LULUCF, and that is what specifically concerns land use and forestry. In this LULUCF, which is not part of this draft, but is an undoubtedly very important area, it has been agreed that the emissions of this decade, which we are currently dealing with, in a very simplified way, in forestry, must not be higher than they were in the earlier reference period, which was the previous one. This means that we have to carry out our forest management in such a way that our forests tie at least as much carbon as they bound during the reference period. What does that mean in practice? That we shouldn't grow cutting capacity. If we grow cutting volumes, our emissions will increase. Very simplistic. Now, what you are referring to is that, between the burden and the LULUCF sector, countries are able to make transfers of certain units. In order to ensure that if one area is missing and another area is transferred, it is possible to transfer it a little. In the case of all these areas, or in the case of both areas, the Estonian state actually has exactly the same dilemma. In general, if we can all reduce our emissions in the LULUCF area, forest use and this shared commitment, we will have a surplus quota and this quota can be sold. This is the real income that we can get. If we are missing, we must either buy it or compensate for it from this other pot, which practically means lost income. So, in theory, we are able to make some of these transfers between these two sectors, but in general it is also important to achieve these targets within each sector so that we do not have to buy ourselves so that the taxpayer does not have to bear the costs, on the one hand. And if we're doing better, as I hope we could go, for example, in forest management, it wouldn't be so difficult to reduce the volume of felling by a few million cubic metres, then we already have a surplus that can be realised on the market. And probably the price of the quota that comes up there, the third one, will be pretty expensive. This is technically difficult, but the general principle is nevertheless simple: it must be below the target. If you're down, you're in profit, if you go over, you have to pay for the quota to other countries that have done better.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-06_U75	No further questions. Thank you! Now I'm opening negotiations. Do the groups have a wish to speak? It doesn't look like it. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 345 be completed. That concludes our first reading and sets the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 20 April. Ladies and gentlemen, we have well exhausted today's agenda. Thank you. Get back to work on the committees, I'll see you tomorrow! Have a good day. The sitting is adjourned.
