ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U1	Good fellows! Honourable Riigikogu! Members of the Government of the Republic of Great Honour! Happy Question Time Watchers! Good afternoon. We're gonna start the briefing on 8 December, and first we're gonna run a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U2	16 members of the Riigikogu registered, 85 are missing. The following members of government participate in the Question Hour: Minister for Public Administration Jaak Aab, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Taavi Aas, and Minister for Social Protection Signe Riisalo. Dear colleagues, since there are 13 issues registered this time, I would like to ask you to ask us to make a specific question and an additional question for each question. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U3	The band Orange sings a song like "The Five Last": the five last ones who never get to the table, and so on. Once I made a noise here about why I'm always the last one. The other such unhappy is Mart Helme. Is it going to be that we are always the last questioners, or is it still possible to change this procedure in such a way that we are among the first to ask?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U4	Thank you. I'm sure it is. We do have a certain set of rules that first the opposition parties ask, each Wednesday one opposition party asks first. We have also agreed in the Bureau that ministers should change and political parties should change. There is no ranking, who must be the last or the last. Of course, it will change, just as you said. You, too, personally, have been much higher on this list, and I believe that these good days will come again at some point.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U5	Let's get to the questions. The first question has been asked by Helle-Moonika Helme, a member of the Riigikogu, and this is answered by a member of the Government of the Republic, Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration, in the role of Prime Minister. The issue is vaccination. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U6	Thank you, Mr President. Minister Ab in his duties as Prime Minister. My questions have two keywords, the first being the vaccination of children. I actually would have liked to ask them to Minister Kiige or the Prime Minister, but since we don't have them here today, I'm asking you maybe you have some answers to give. We know that the Ministry of Social Affairs has been sitting with a working group since autumn, who has discussed the subject of "Vaccination of small children," we are talking about [vaccination] since the age of five. Neither we nor the public have ever heard of it. Now we hear that decisions have been taken in principle and are going to vaccinate children. We have also heard propaganda here about how toddlers are responsible for their grandparents being infected at the Christmas table, and young children are infected, even though we know that vaccinated people carry the virus the same way. Therefore, to say that children are the biggest culprits is probably not the right thing. But we also know that your coalition mates won't hesitate to go after the children or not. I ask how you feel about this. As a member of the government, do you agree with this process, and should and how should we proceed with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U7	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! As for the vaccination of children aged 5 to 11 years, we will read the news and know what is happening in the world. The European Medicines Agency (EMA) has been authorised to [administration] of Pfizer vaccine in children of this age. We have discussed this in Estonia by the Committee on Immunoprophylaxis, which will make recommendations on the introduction of vaccines and when to introduce them, as well as on other matters. The Immunoprophylaxis Commission has recommended the use of this vaccine. But I must remind you that I do not know what has been said in the working groups of the Ministry of Social Affairs. I can't comment on that. This has certainly been the subject, and in previous discussions it has always been said that sometime vaccine manufacturers are likely to come up with vaccines that can vaccinate children. The government has discussed the information that has come to us from the Health Board, the Medicines Agency, the Immunoprophylaxis Commission and the Ministry of Social Affairs, and we are of the same opinion as the Committee on Immunoprophylaxis has recommended. I will continue to recall the principle that applies in Estonia: vaccination is optional for all. We have also talked about the principles that we are unlikely to support child vaccination in any form of campaigns. The main place where children can be vaccinated in the future is family medicine centres. And surely tomorrow, when we talk about vaccination in the government office, we will also be given information on how these things will evolve. According to current information, these vaccines, which are specially designed for children, arrive in Estonia around Christmas, either before Christmas or after Christmas, are not yet clear. It shall be made available in accordance with this timetable. It is certainly important for parents to decide whether they want to vaccinate or not to vaccinate. I'm sure it's voluntary.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U9	Now, here's a very specific question. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U10	Thank you for your answer. We know how this voluntary government is very well regulated by restrictions. With adults and teenagers, everything has already been tested beautifully, how a vaccination certificate can limit their access to [certain places], especially such social interaction. We'll probably see in the future how when a little kid asks his mother why I can't go to the playroom for a friend's birthday, and Mom says that sweetheart, you haven't been vaccinated, the baby starts crying, screaming and trampling and says, Mommy, I want that shot. You said that vaccination is voluntary, and here we come to the second question. The European Commission's leader, Ursula von der Leyen, has come up with the idea that in the future the European Union should be subject to compulsory vaccination against European Union citizens. Mandatory! Again, this question would actually be for me to the Prime Minister, who has said that we have the most European, or most European-friendly government, we know that, in fact, it means that everything that has been decided in Europe will be implemented in an undisputed and obedient manner in Estonia as well. After all, as we know, our laws on so-called coercive [vaccination], we can discuss where there is a limit between duty and coercion, in fact, do not allow. How does the government intend to proceed with this? The instinct of the Reform Party is, as we know, to stick to the European Union and the European Commission on every issue. Again, I ask you what your sense of this matter is. Does the current government of Estonia intend to move forward on this subject in accordance with the proposal put forward by the European Commission and Ursula von der Leyen? What awaits us, the citizens of the European Union, but above all the citizens of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U11	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U12	Thank you for your question. I would like to come up with a little more child vaccination, because you commented on that. The principle that we have discussed in the office is that the vaccination certificate, which is automatically generated, probably also in the case of children, will not be an access limiter or permiter in any public place, as it is currently the case in terms of restrictions for people aged 12 to 17 years and adults. In 12 to 17-year-olds, it is possible to obtain [permit] a PCR test or an antigen test. As far as the idea of compulsory vaccination is concerned, I probably also understand the European Commission and Ursula von der Leyen. It's not easy what's been going on here for two years. We've been through all these things, all these waves. Scientific arguments suggest that vaccination will still help, especially in terms of how seriously the person suffers from infection. This is what we have seen, purely statistically, also in Estonia. I guess that's a concern for the future, given that there is still a risk of new strains. But I assure you that the Estonian Government has not made any decisions that would mean compulsory vaccination of people, and certainly [the Government] has no intention of doing so either. Let us stick to this principle, as it is now. I do not believe that our government will be discussing compulsory vaccination in the near future. You know that the employer can submit certain conditions to [workers] when carrying out a risk analysis depending on the spread of infection, the nature of the work, the contact or what the employer must ensure, be it in the public sector or in the private sector. Based on this risk assessment, it can use different confidence measures, whether it is wearing a mask at the workplace, whether it is keeping a distance or something else. The Defence Forces have found, on the basis of their risk analysis, that it is possible to guarantee national security if they do not have to worry about people becoming constantly ill and becoming self-insulated. They have imposed such a requirement that state-paid Defence Forces personnel must be vaccinated. This is a question of risk analysis for every employer. No national government decision on compulsory vaccination has been taken, and I do not believe that it will be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U13	And now one more question. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U14	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You have very beautiful and proud slogans that are completely different from reality. Real life is completely different, and I think you know it. First of all, I would say that you said that you did not do this about the vaccination campaign, yet it has been your party minister who promoted it and initiated it. My question is that yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs, the Scientific Advisory Board, the WHO representative and the representative of the Health Board introduced the omicron strain. There were statements such as "flooding from immunity," "have better immune escape potential" and "immunity after transmission and vaccination is less effective." This means that vaccination or vaccination and penetration will not protect against this strain. My question in this light about this behaviour of omicron is: what is the government's plan for the Omicron strain? Are you still saying we're gonna vaccinate, even though we know it's not gonna help? What's your plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U15	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U16	Thank you for your question. I guess this new strain is a topical issue, and there is not much to know about it. This strain is being tried to be more precise around the world, to understand its behavior, its spread, its impact. No precise database or database or conclusions have actually been drawn, as has the scientific council, the experts have told us. The initial views of the Omicron strain was, yes, I have read them too and, of course, our scientists also draw from them, looking at international scientific literature, are such that a faster spread may be in the case of the sufferers. There is no such response in the case of vaccinees. Various experts have said that vaccination should also help to prevent serious disease of the omicron strain. There's so little information that I'm not gonna be smart or say it's either way or the other way around. Tomorrow, a representative of the Scientific Advisory Board and representatives of the Health Board will be present in the Cabinet and we will receive further information again. Well, that's the information we need to determine what happens next.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U17	Thank you very much. I will stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U18	Let us move on to the second question. It is presented by Priit Sibul, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by Taavi Aas, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. The subject of the question is the price of electricity. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U19	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. It's a pleasure to see you here this week. I hope you managed to do the test at the airport on a voluntary basis last night. But now to the question. Dear Minister, I don't mean to be so mean at Christmas, but it looks like it does. It seems to me that the government's actions are now best characterised by the word 'joking', although you must be acknowledged: you personally have taken the initiative in some respects. I'm going to read out a sequence that goes for this year. In April, Fatherland submitted a draft for the abolition of the planned increase in excise duty in 2022. The government really started supporting it in the fall. In September, we submitted a draft wishing to abolish the electricity renewable energy charge for consumers and to cover the renewable energy fee for producers in the form of a national budget allocation from the quota revenue for CO2 emissions. The coalition did not consider it reasonable to support this draft. In October, the Fatherland proposed a temporary reduction of VAT on the excise duty on gas, electricity and heat from 20% to 9%, but none of the members of the coalition group in the Committee on Monetary Affairs supported this proposal on 23 November. In November 2021, last month, the government decided that 50% of the online service fee would be reimbursed to the consumer within six months. In addition, it was agreed to establish a support measure for less insured households, partial payment of electricity, gas and district heating bills. Well, we see everything that has happened at the price of electricity, and the measures that have been adopted by the government, of course, I think, will not satisfy you either by listening to your next proposals. I have a question. In what form, what and when do you think it's gonna happen? And what does the consumer see on his accounts?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U20	Tavi Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U21	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu and a good questioner! Just as you stated yourself, certain steps have been taken by the Government of the Republic today. Unfortunately, we really are in a situation where the electricity price has been set at new highs since these steps. It is certainly appropriate, at this point, to look at other measures as well. I think the most important thing is which measures can be implemented quickly or as soon as possible. This should be the basis for action now. There are certainly long measures, but it will take time to bring additional energy capacities to the market, and that is not what will help us this winter. Fast-track measures, as you have always said and as you have said yourself, are tax measures and compensatory measures. Tax measures would be uniform for all, while compensatory measures would be more targeted and feasible through local authorities. The government has made decisions about them. Now, as I said, indeed, the electricity price has continued to grow and new measures would be appropriate here. Our proposal has been that there could be several, because it is true that it is very difficult to resolve the situation with only one measure. Our proposals have been, I say again, the following. Firstly, to review the VAT issue, the VAT reduction. Secondly, given that such a high electricity price affects more and more families, it would probably be important to also review what the beneficiary's marginal income is. It is currently EUR 673 and it would probably be wise to raise it, because so high prices are affecting more and more families. And the third proposal could be to review what is happening at the stock exchange price and whether it would be reasonable and possible to provide a ceiling share for consumers for the maximum price on the stock exchange.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U22	Thank you. Since the questioner was worried about me too, I thank you for that. Yes, a very convenient test facility has been created at Tallinn Airport. I took this opportunity and I learned my test result today before the start of the working day, it was negative. Thank you. Priit Onion, now you have a chance to clarify the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The way I see it, you'll be texting after a while, and then you'll have to go back to testing. At least I had it like this a few weeks ago. So wait for the message and you can go again. But I will continue the question to the Minister. You and I were in a working group in the previous government, and I know you're a sincere and benevolent person. But when I look at the messages that I am hearing from you now, you are clearly in bad company and take the example of the wrong people. At the end of last week, when the Minister of Education and Research came up with an action plan for the transition to education in Estonian, he announced, among other things, that he had not discussed it with the coalition partners. It was a communication plan. Now that I look at the proposal you have come up with to lower the VAT on energy carriers, unfortunately, it seems that you forgot to negotiate with your party in addition to the coalition partners. Otherwise, people would hardly have voted against this proposal on 23 November, as they did in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I strongly recommend that, in addition to the coalition partners, they also communicate with members of their political group so that they can support these proposals. The question is, when do you plan to end this pingpong coalition? Pingpong makes sense to play with the opposition, we have a lot of good and great ideas and it makes sense that it's easier to go out than to realize it, but it doesn't make sense for you to do it with each other in the coalition. You could still come up with plans that you're able to discuss and realize to somehow be reflected in people's accounts and lives. I have a question: where do you think you're going with your proposal tomorrow? What do you hope to achieve in the government? And when a similar draft of the Fatherland comes into government, do you intend to support it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U24	Tavi Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U25	Thank you. In fact, pingpong is a very nice game and can also be played with friends. There definitely doesn't have to be another one on the other side of the front line to play a nice game. I think you can play with anyone. Now, on the one hand, you ask me what I think we should do and, on the other hand, you say that we should discuss the answers first and then answer them. Unfortunately, life is a little different, life is a little faster. As a minister, I have undoubtedly a duty to go to the government with the proposals that could be made in this situation, what could be done, what would be the urgent measures we should take? And with these proposals, I will undoubtedly go to the Government of the Republic tomorrow. Whether all measures will be approved by the Government of the Republic and the coalition partner will be revealed tomorrow. After that, I can also answer your questions about how it went.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U26	And now one more question. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U27	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I must add to the questioner that our party council has already adopted its own positions and proposals for the coming winter in October. Even then, we saw that electricity prices were beginning to rise to record heights. How do you bring them down? We have provided a long list of possible measures, starting with the exit of the stock exchange and ending with the reduction or elimination of certain taxes and charges. So the proposals to the government have actually been made not only by the Fatherland, but also by the Estonian Conservative People's Party a whole number of months ago. What the government has not done is that it has not taken any of these proposals into account. Such a small addition. Your answers, of course, say that your proposal is that all consumers take their hat off in cold weather and go begging at the door of the authorities. I think this is not the most constructive approach and the government still needs to start moving brains to bring down the price of electricity in the cold winter. My question is on a slightly different subject. We all remember this autumn storm of 2019 when the city of Võru and its surroundings were left without electricity for a while. What is the government's current crisis plan in case, for example, our eastern neighbour announces in February that he does not have a surplus of electricity and is therefore forced to shut Estonia off from its power grid, and our own production capacities are also unable to cope? What is the government's crisis plan? Do we have generators for hospitals and other vital centers? How do we supply electricity in this case to a large bedpan line and so on?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U28	Tavi Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U29	Thank you. There is no doubt that there are crisis plans for power outages. As far as the Eastern Neighbourhood is concerned, actually today we are in a situation where very little electricity comes from our electricity trade. So the practical situation you described has already developed in Estonia. I think it would be very good if there were more of this trade in the current situation, and I hope that we will also be able to agree here between the three Baltic States in order to increase this trade. In particular, this agreement is needed with Lithuania. Now, about the plan in case there's little electricity. Yes, of course crisis plans have been developed. This certainly does not mean that hospitals have to give priority to their generators. First of all, it still applies to the situation that we actually have a energy deficit, of course, large consumers, especially they must start to reduce their consumption. We'll definitely get to the hospitals in the final order, and I hope we never have that time. I consider the decision made by the previous government to be very correct: the production capacity of 1000 megawatts must be in reserve on Eesti Energia. This was an extremely important decision, and I think that this decision will help us now and will certainly help us in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U30	Thank you very much. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U31	Let us move on to the third question posed by the member of the Riigikogu, Helmen Kütt. This is answered by Minister for Social Protection Signe Riisalo and the subject of the issue is people's livelihood. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U32	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister for Social Protection! There are a lot of different topics in your work area and on your desk, and one of them is definitely important for people to cope with. I am talking about national measures, income support. Today, the Minister for Public Administration is dealing with the regulation on the impact of the increase in energy costs for families living in relative poverty, while income support as a measure is on your desk. Did you also consider the idea of raising the level of subsistence in the state budget negotiations? This would be the easiest way to help more people in need to cope with the current price increase, the energy crisis and everything that prices actually do with people's lives and livelihoods. We also tabled an amendment on this during the budgetary procedure, unfortunately it was not supported in this Chamber. It is true that opposition parties supported it because they realised that raising the subsistence limit, for example, currently EUR 150 for the first family member, by EUR 20 or EUR 170 would already help to ensure that families with children, where each of the next [minor] family members has a 20% increase, would be easier to manage. But it also helps the elderly living alone. In a situation where next year's pension increases by a true coefficient rather than by the government's decision to make an extraordinary pension increase in relation to the base and the average pension is free of income tax, it is actually quite difficult for the elderly to cope with and the income support would be one of the [aid] measures. Did you put forward this proposal? Unfortunately, what the Minister of Public Administration is doing today, and what is very right is being done, has remained entangled, and social workers are concerned about the workload that this entails for them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U33	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U34	Thank you, good Chairman. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! These are very correct questions, Mrs Helmen Kütt, which you have asked. The package of topics you touched on is quite wide. I come to [first] income support. In the run-up to the negotiations on the country's budgetary strategy, I introduced a memorandum into the government so that the housing loan component would also be taken into account when determining income support. When we were doing the state budget in the spring, we lived in the knowledge of a slightly different forecast and remained conservative. We didn't know at the time what unexpected changes would happen to the energy price. As a result, the government reacted quite quickly when the state budget was already in the final stages and a solution was found to help people living in relative poverty or households living in relative poverty. It is true that the government decided to settle the organisation and financing of this measure through Jaak Aab. However, our ministry, as well as our domain, has come to the aid of the S.T.T.A.R. Registry. What we have done in this budget for next year is to alleviate the more difficult situation for the pensioners who live alone you have mentioned. We will ease this with a one-off grant of EUR 85 higher than it has been in previous years. Talking about increasing income support, it is true that raising the income support limit by, for example, 10 euros would be a rather marginal cost to the state budget, or half a million. If you raise it to 20 euros, we can't do a real mathematical multiplication, it's going to cost more than double. But next year's state budget negotiations, as I have said before in Question Time, we certainly consider it necessary to discuss this issue and I will take it to the government for negotiation. However, as regards income support, I must say that, just as the number of beneficiaries of income support has decreased for the past five years, this figure has also decreased in the last two months. For example, in October the number of households applying for and receiving income support decreased by 16.5% and in November the number of households receiving income support decreased by 11%. Of course, a number of conclusions can be drawn from this. First of all, recipients of income support often live in rental housing with fixed-price energy packages. But on the other hand, we know that a better-for-nothing economy means higher incomes, and then the limit of living really.... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U35	And now the point to be clarified. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U36	Thank you very much for your answer. I know that the Social Ministry officials consider this option, raising the level of subsistence, to be very reasonable. I am not so sure that this regulation, which is currently in the coordination circle, is also expected to receive very quick feedback from the Cities and Municipalities Association, municipalities, because 30 problems were brought out in this respect, very much cheaper will come. Also, these solutions, which concern the S.T.A.R. Supplement, so that it would have been faster... Just as quickly, a government meeting between the readings of the budget, knowing what the situation would be, would have been able to take a decision and, by raising the level of subsistence, would have had access to better livelihoods for a greater number of people. That was a commentary on [the previous question]. My second question concerns expensive nursing homes. You have pointed out in the press precisely the increase in their cost. In a very large number of places [the place fee] will be expensive on 1 January, in part on 1 April, because then there will be a slight increase in pension. You have pointed out in an interview in the press that it is the responsibility of the local authorities to deal with it. At the same time, you have also said that this is the government's priority for next year. In this budget, which is submitted for admission to the Riigikogu, there is no measure to ensure that local governments can help more people and their loved ones who are in trouble with paying the place tax, or that, even better, municipalities can create new services so that people do not have to go to nursing homes. I understand that this is the responsibility of the municipalities, but the responsibilities of the municipalities range from pushing snow to oh-oh-oh, how many things. To just say turn to the local government, they'll solve the problem, they'll certainly try it, but research has shown that they can't do everything. Therefore, why is there nothing in the [public budget] that concerns support to municipalities?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U37	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U38	Thank you for the additional question. Yes, the role of local authorities in welfare is very important. In 1995, when the Welfare Act was adopted, the organisation and, where appropriate, the financing of welfare activities, in particular general care homes, and the provision of home services to people who need help and support to cope at home so that they do not become institutional care, were left to the role of local government. However, the income base of local governments will increase significantly in the next year, 2022. Local governments are able to plan their budgets so that they can look more closely at welfare. On the other hand, the European Social Fund also continues to provide support to local authorities. Very specifically, we have targeted Ida-Viru County as a region for which we know that there are somewhat greater social problems. It is true and regrettable that the budget and the fact that there are no resources planned for long-term care or general care in general for the following year. However, I must remind you that, unfortunately, the previous ministers too, knowing from the analysis of the 2015 Task Force and the World Bank, that we are in need of several tens of millions of euros in order to improve people's lives and support local authorities in this regard, have actually remained the voice of the shouter in the desert. Forty-five million was the amount of money I used in my office to provide a component-based financing model with a package of support for carers, which would have brought relief to those who cared for themselves, both in terms of leave and social tax. But once again we did this budget knowing that our economy was not doing as well as it actually did. I have agreed with several members of government that my priority next year as Minister for Social Protection is to solve the two problems mentioned in long-term care: support for inherent carers and component-based financing for general care services. But there is no doubt that prices will rise and pain will come to both close and local authorities. I believe that the overall increase in the revenue base will, however, help local authorities to cope.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U39	And now one more question. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U40	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister for Social Protection! It's about people's livelihood. The previous answers, as well as the questions of a good colleague, largely concerned those who are already among those who are coping badly. However, with the rise in energy prices, we are already seeing people who have managed so far well may not be able to cope with their lives in the near future. Indeed, if we are traveling around at night, for example, in sleeping areas, it is as if we were at war because the windows of the sleeping areas are all blind. People have already been taken somewhere to the point that they don't even dare to light a lamp. This is perfectly understandable because the systems that have been built up so far are very brutal. If, for example, families who have done well so far are indebted for electricity, the bailiff immediately enters the proceedings and people's bank accounts are seized, their property will be seized. It is impossible to make a mistake, and all these people fall into your social protection sphere. I quote Minister Taavi Asa sitting next to you who said earlier that, as a minister, he has a duty to go to the government in the current circumstances with proposals on how to deal with this situation. You were here before, in response to a good colleague, Helmen Hunt, talking about such long plans, but now we need a quick response. I ask whether and how the Minister for Social Protection has planned to go to the government, with which proposals he has planned to go to the government to take any measures to help the people of Estonia if they are in trouble and unable to cope with the rise in electricity prices and other related costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U41	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U42	Thank you, Mrs Helle-Moonika Helme, for the question. The government is primarily a collegial body and we make decisions and choices together, because the people we are talking about are people we all share. In the same way, we all share the state budget. In September of this year, the government was already discussing how to compensate people for the rise in energy prices. The decisions taken jointly by the government are as follows: the abolition of the increase in electricity excise duty, the 50% reduction in the network charge for electricity and the aid package of up to EUR 37 million already discussed several times today, which helps families whose income is less than EUR 673 per family member and the calculations with a coefficient to continue there to receive up to 80% of this increase in support to alleviate the rise in prices. As far as further steps by the government are concerned, I can confirm that tomorrow there will be a debate in the government office, which will look more broadly at how to ensure the stability of electricity prices in the future, which can be done in the near future. We are also definitely discussing whether the EUR 673 limit is reasonable or whether we should also go here to help more households and support the measure that the government already has. I'll sort out the information in the hall. The electricity price relief measure is already in force and partly in place. Depends on the local government whether they are ready, whether they have been able to hire staff. There are no obstacles to the receipt of applications and the payment of resources. The regulation is in force and in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U43	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U44	Let's move on to question four. It is presented by Rene Kokk, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration, in the role of Prime Minister. The issue is the availability of public services. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U45	Thank you very much, Chairman. Minister, good Jaak! I'll ask you as Minister of Public Administration. We have only recently read how the PBA closes its service centers in 11 cities for a few days a week, and they remain open for three days a week. The new year will take over three days in Kuressaare, Paide, Rapla, Jõgeva, Põlva, Võru, Valga, Viljandi and several others. We know that in the past the offices of the Transport Board, the former Road Administration, have been moved to a smaller opening time in rural attraction centres. We are already reading about the queues in the service centres, mainly with regard to obtaining passports and ID cards. And then let's read that, according to the PPA's identity and status office field coordinator, shortening opening hours and reducing staff will probably lead to an increase in waiting times in service halls, I say that this is already a long one, but the experience so far has shown that customers are understanding and that [PA's] staff are mostly satisfied with the arrangements. What's your vision? Is it still better kept for Estonia and for Estonia that we are moving in this direction? Today, we already have the queues for the [driver's] licensing exams in February-March across Estonia, people travel to make their passports and ID-cards across Estonia. And now we're taking the service further [less], taking it beyond rural areas. Are you sure this is a reasonable move? Are there any plans to slow it down and turn it back on track?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U46	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good questioner! Yes, if you now answer this whole problem in a long and meaningful way, then of course it has several angles. Surely the need for such a counter will continue to decrease over time. After all, we have contributed to this as a state, having developed e-services and digital state. I've been making a passport and an ID lately, too. I didn't need to go to the counter. I needed to update the photo. I went to the pit where I was transferred, took a photo and gave me fingerprints, then went home and did my application in e-service, and eventually I just went after [documents]. In fact, we've been working here for decades to make it work. Many countries can't even dream of it. As regards the way in which this service is available in the county centres and whether problems arise, I will certainly follow closely. I do not want to impose any responsibility on anyone else, because the Minister for Public Administration is also responsible for ensuring that the welfare and services of people in the regions, regional policy, do not deteriorate. If we replace them with e-services, there can certainly be queues at some point. I have not done such an analysis, but I certainly want to ask the Minister of the Interior. What has the Minister of the Interior answered to me? First of all, I am not in favour of making austerity plans with such percentages either. We were in the country's budget strategy in the spring before this choice, we have spent a great deal of money during the crisis, and the budget is negative. We know the reason for this. I'm sure those choices were heavier then. An austerity plan was drawn up. René, you know for yourself that we carried out such reforms and reforms in such a way as to be properly analysed, we also looked at duplications and support services. I am in favour of this approach. But in a crisis like this, the percentages came from the RES. In the case of the Ministry of the Interior, we reduced the cost-saving task. As much [as originally planned] they did not have to reduce their budget. They searched inside their structure for places where savings could be made. You always have to look for savings, you always have to look for savings. And now I'm going to tell you which process I would have preferred. The Minister of the Interior has confirmed that people's sense of security regarding the activities of active police officers or even constables in rural areas is not being undermined in any way. And no one plans to reduce the reaction speed of the Rescue Board's commandos. Whether it goes exactly like that, I'll be watching closely. For service halls, an analysis should also be made of how much this complicates access and whether [the queues] really occur. I know that there are more [long] queues in larger centres such as Tallinn, Tartu...... and not so long in county centres. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] But I'm sure I'll look into that information.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U48	And now the point to be clarified. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U49	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! I mean, Jaak, I agree with you. I think that's the way you think and look, you have a heart in the right place, I don't doubt that. But the problem is serious, because in fact, the queues are already there, that's a fact, even in smaller places. In fact, Raplaski's traffic test queues already extend to February-March, although the last few years are allowed to be resolved immediately. That's all we've got to talk about. The fact that people's security doesn't go down isn't true. As a matter of fact, it is, and the Rescue Board is also under attack. The second question I have is whether you have any research. What worries me very much is that with these closings, we want to push all this action into the hands of the people. We've already closed down Saturday services, no more service on Saturdays. I do not know how a working person should be able to go there, because most services are available only on working days. On Saturdays, there is not even a two- or three-hour window of time in the services of the Transport Board or in other matters. This is completely wrong in itself, and I do not know how people who work should be able to go there. We also want employment to be good. But the question is, has anyone discussed this [the connection with the green turn]? We are always talking about how we are moving strongly towards a greener Europe and towards environmental sustainability and things, and now we are making these rural people drive. Driving, car depreciation, his own hours, road wear, fuel consumption, pollution, danger in traffic because people are driving. Instead, we are talking here about 11 people who are being made redundant by the EPA. Instead of keeping 11 people on the payroll in Estonia, this is, of course, the cost, I will not argue against it, tens, hundreds if not thousands of people will be driven down the road every day, and then we will talk about moving towards a greener Europe. Is there a study under which, for example, the concentration of these 11 people on the footprint of the environment will ultimately do at the expense of people who will travel and consume their services every day across Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U50	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U51	Thanks for asking. As far as I am aware, such a specific study has not been carried out on the movement of people in rural areas, nor on the movement of people in rural areas when they are more mobile and driving is greater. I will certainly pay attention to this issue and carry out this analysis. How do I put it? I'm trying to be relatively frank about how these austerity plans were made and where they ended up. After all, when drawing up the budget strategy, a certain objective was planned, which all ministers had to look at in their field and do so already in the spring. I have told both ministers and the public that if we get to the active worker and we have to lay him off, this is not the right austerity plan. Savings must be sought elsewhere. If a service that is not a counter service and is increasingly going to e-services, self-service and digital state services raises problems in certain rural areas, I will certainly raise this issue. After all, we will also have the next budgets and next reviews, and I also agree with the Minister for the Interior to discuss this. We have actually discussed these plans with the Minister of the Interior quite a lot, since spring, and he has given information to both the cabinet and, for example, to me on how austerity has developed. It all started with such a general process, then the ministries got the plan and, in fact, it only materialises now, the same issue that concerns the service halls. I certainly intend to monitor [the situation]. I have tried to do everything in my office concerning the availability or development of rural services, and some positive signs are, however, seen lately not to turn into a negative one.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U52	And now one more question. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U53	Thank you. Dear Minister, You tried to prove and justify how good it is to close the service counters and close them for a few days a week. You didn't convince me. It amazes me that you are saying that you are prepared to discuss with the Minister of the Interior now that the Police and Border Guard Board has already publicly announced a new working schedule and people's redundancies. But you will discuss and analyze. It's extremely strange. I also do not understand that, when there was a crisis situation in spring and you said that we must cut the budget, now that we all know that the economy is growing at record speed, there is much more revenue coming into the budget in hundreds of millions more than was planned in the RES, we are going to implement a cut-off plan with which we are completely insanely restricting the availability of public services in rural areas. We force people to make additional expenditure and increase the environmental footprint, knowing that there are really opportunities to maintain service in [rural areas] when drawing up the budget in the autumn. Today, the situation has developed that all these authorities have different opening hours in the regions: the PRIA has different times and not all days, the Road Administration has its own days, the Police and Border Guard Board has its own days. The person no longer orients in the county centre on which days the service can be obtained. We're just wondering if that makes sense or if it doesn't make sense. I am not going to talk about cutting down county public transport routes, which, in turn, makes it worse to get to county centres. Not to mention the disposal of toilets and garbage containers along state roads in this country. My question is: how much do we save in this country? And is it possible to change this situation from 1 January? It's a month away.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U54	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U55	Thanks for asking. I said that every minister has rolled these plans in his own field. What were we able to do in the fall? I don't know if it was a big step or a small step, but the Homeland Department's savings got about half as small. It was our political will, and we were able to realise it, otherwise perhaps it would have hurt. Could the government have foreseen such fine growth figures when drawing up the budget? Couldn't have been directly. This is what we do on the basis of the Ministry of Finance forecast, as a good questioner knows, which is always relatively conservative. And what happened this year, and what's coming now, isn't going to do anything for the next year. The questioner knows exactly the same thing. It helps to cover the minus that has arisen maybe only in a specific year, it will no longer allow additional costs to be incurred in the following year and it will not generate any additional revenue. However, if this situation continues and the tax receipts continue, it seems that even [Ministry of Finance] exceeds forecasts, as happens occasionally, these bottlenecks will certainly have to be put on the table. I told you I wouldn't dodge responsibility. I really want to go through these plans the way Rene Chef asked me how these service halls are. The situation described that they all work at different times is ridiculous. I know that the questioner is not very optimistic about public buildings, and Viljandi's first [state house] may not have been the best one. I admit it. But we'll get better. Well, in Viljandi, it's a problem that the PBA is in a different place. They'll be, say, a service counter and an information worker. It is often necessary to help a person in self-service or using an e-service on the spot; he does not need a specific official to go anywhere at the counter at all. We are trying to work towards making it more conveniently accessible, and state buildings in counties would bring together representations from several institutions in one or two places. But that's a good idea, I'm sure I'll put it behind me. I haven't been following these reception times lately. And just as the questioner said, wouldn't it be possible to look at these slots and make sure that the working person gets there at some point on Saturday? I think that's a pretty good idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U56	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U57	Let us move on to question five. It is presented by Heiki Hepner, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by Taavi Aas, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. The issue is crisis measures. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U58	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, The magic limit was broken yesterday, and the price of electricity was over EUR 1000 per megawatt-hour. Currently, the price is more than EUR 600 per megawatt-hour, but the daily average is more or less equal to yesterday. To sum up, it's a completely crazy price. If you add more energy to this, the assessment is simple: we are in a new crisis situation and it is called the energy crisis. Petrol, diesel has increased in tens of percent compared to the previous year, gas and electricity in hundreds of percent. When you are in a crisis, you cannot drag away from the crisis, but you must take swift and effective action. That is, of course, when there is a desire to get out of the crisis as little as possible. The Fatherland has made a number of proposals and has initiated drafts to eliminate excise and renewable energy taxes, reduce network charges, reduce VAT. The government has agreed to some of the proposals with a long stick, but it has obviously been few. You have taken the initiative, but the government is whole for good and for bad. Unfortunately, the situation is bad now, actually very bad, and not just in the electricity market. The price of gas has also increased insanely and has led to a noticeable increase in the cost of indoor heating. In October of this year, the Fatherland ambassadors proposed to reduce VAT from 20% to 9%. Your coalition partner has announced that this is not a good idea and should certainly not be implemented. Here's my question. If, as usual, nothing happens, how do you think the people should cope with this crazy price increase and how do we emerge from this energy crisis? Or will a miracle happen, and will the government actually do something about it? If so, when and what?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U59	Tavi Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U60	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I find it difficult to agree with you that nothing has been done. However, two measures have been implemented. Yes, in that I agree with you that prices have continued to increase, the situation is not normal. But we still have to look at what we can do quickly. When we start talking about the reasons why we have this situation today, it is very difficult to deal with their direct causes, or most of them. It is very difficult for us to do something about the increase in the [price] of energy inputs on the world market. Yes, we certainly have opportunities for certain price components, and we have done so. I, too, have raised the issue in Europe that the CO2 quota system does not work in this form and needs to be reformed. Unfortunately, there are countries in the European Union that feel the same way with us, but there are countries that do not think the same way we do. There is certainly no quick solution to this. In the Estonian state, we should look at what we can do quickly. And quickly, as I said, we will be able to implement either tax measures or support measures. With regard to charges, we have already implemented the measure, the network charges have been halved. As regards support measures, the government has taken a similar decision to support low-income consumers. Are these measures sufficient? Obviously not enough, because, as I said, prices have continued to increase. We need to start thinking about additional measures. I have already answered one previous question here that we will certainly propose new, additional measures for the government to discuss. And the aim is, however, first of all to propose those measures that are to be implemented as soon as possible and which we can decide for ourselves here on the ground. There are certainly measures in which Estonia could contribute and we could make proposals, but the decision on which may not depend solely on us, so these are probably the next step. But the first one is what we can do right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U61	And now one more question. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U62	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. We understand that in this coalition, it would be perfectly possible for the Centre Party to discuss the topic of 'Exit from the power exchange', which would immediately bring the issue of 'Exit from CO2 trade', which would immediately and to a considerable extent bring the price down, as well as the issues of tax policy and all kinds of charges, the reduction or withdrawal of fees and charges. In particular, in view of the way in which the revenue from the state budget thanks to the implementation of the pension reform and the various other factors that the previous government has done, the state budget currently receives considerable amounts of more money than in the past. The conclusion is that the Reform Party is like a dog in a haystack: it does not eat itself or let others eat. But here's the question. Since you have such a coalition partner that there is no way of reducing the price of electricity, has at least the stock agency and the state's reserves reached this stage in order to provide existential assistance to households who are not able to cope in the cold winter?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U63	Tavi Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U64	Thank you. As I said, tax measures can indeed be implemented, because tax receipts are better for very different reasons. On the one hand, our economy is doing better, or at least so far, it has done better, but on the other hand, high energy prices also create the situation that tax receipts are higher. These measures that we are implementing can actually be implemented in such a way that they do not have a major impact on the balance of the Estonian state's budget. You mentioned the exit from the stock market and from the CO2 trade. Leaving CO2 trading is probably not that easy. It is undoubtedly not only dependent on Estonia's decisions, and here we must also look at what the consequences of such a step would be. It's like leaving the stock market. This is certainly possible purely legal, but once again, it is not just a unilateral step by Estonia, and this step will certainly have its consequences. The longer-term effects of the exit from the stock market must also be assessed. In a crisis, yes, on the one hand, it must be dealt with, on the other hand, the causes of the crisis must be addressed. But certainly, in a crisis, decisions must not be made rashly, with sharp turns, which may in turn have serious consequences. As I said, we have to deal with the things that are in our hands, which we can make our own decisions quickly on the ground. Once these decisions have been taken, look at these medium- and longer-term solutions to avoid coming into similar crises in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U65	And here's a very specific question. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U66	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, I would like to return to this reduction in VAT. I think it is one of the good measures that can be implemented quickly. We really know that your coalition partner has said that the main concern is that suddenly the rich also receive no support and that is why it cannot be implemented in any way. That gives me two questions. First of all, how do you think that those people who receive the average wage in Estonia or some hundred euros less than the average wage in Estonia are upright and do not need any support in the current energy crisis? And the second target group is municipalities, which are very large energy consumers, consumers of electricity and heat energy, too, would be very important for them to reduce VAT. Are our municipalities also standing up and absolutely not in need of any additional support in this energy crisis, they live very well and there is no need to support them?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U67	Tavi Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U68	Thank you. First of all, I think that every crisis brings out some new perspectives in society. Although we have so far been talking about average wages in Estonia as a rule, I think it has been misleading information in some ways for a long time, which shows society somewhat more prosperous than it really is. I think it would have been much more appropriate to start talking about the median salary, or the number, of which half will get more, half will get less. This actually shows the state of society or the income of our society. When we talk about subsidies, indeed the first support measure that the Government of the Republic has taken was aimed at people on low incomes, those with a first household income of EUR 673 if I am not mistaken, and a somewhat smaller one for each subsequent household member. However, looking at today's situation, I think it is appropriate for us to start talking about subsidies for people who receive less pay than the median wage. This would certainly increase the number of people who would receive support. That is, on the one hand, to give such targeted support to people who really have lower incomes. At the same time, the rise in energy prices has hit all members of society. Maybe it's a little less felt for some people, and there are definitely those who feel it very, very strongly. But it's hit everyone. I think that all the measures that are being developed must be very clearly reported on how the implementation of these measures is the easiest, how we can get to the people the fastest, and how many of those to whom we are implementing these measures should do on their own. In this sense, this transfer fee measure is a good example: for this, a person does not have to do anything for himself to get support, does he not? The VAT measure would also be the same. At the same time, I agree that there should also be measures that apply very precisely to those most in need.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U69	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U70	Let's move on to question six. It is presented by Lauri Läänemets, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration, in the role of Prime Minister, and the subject of the question is the reduction of high energy costs. Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U71	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, Really, I would have liked to have asked the Prime Minister this question, but since you are in this role yourself today, I will ask you. Since the electricity exchange and the price of electricity depend not only on the production we have here in Estonia or anywhere else in the world, but on the back end of everything that is probably or is the most expensive price, in fact, other companies make significantly higher profits, including Eesti Energia. My question to you is this: have you predicted in the government how great the additional profit of Eesti Energia will now be and whether and when we will see this money taken out of Eesti Energia as dividends, or in whatever way it will be taken out? And what expenses is the government planning to distribute this money back to the people today unfairly, not in Estonian terms, but in the logic of market competition? In short, what is the amount by which Eesti Energia earns more, and when and for what is the money intended to be used?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U72	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U73	Thanks for asking. There has been a lot of talk here today about these prices, which is certainly a topical issue. As far as Eesti Energia is concerned, the owner's representative is the Minister of Finance and he should know best, as well as the general meeting of Eesti Energia. But, of course, the government also makes its forecasts when approving each draft budget. I guess those projections are pretty messed up right now. Due to the high price of energy, the price of electricity, it is actually good that we still have these capacities. Someday we may have to start redecorating and closing them, but right now, it's a good thing they exist. They're practically at full power. Let's hope Auvere can finally work. Eesti Energia may not have made so much profit after I talk to Taavi Asa. You know what this is? Eesti Energia has a subsidiary, Elektrilevi, where grid losses, as in Elering's case, must be paid on the basis of a higher electricity price. It's a strange formula that makes a loss. So on the one hand, production really makes a profit, but on the other hand, a high price for network losses causes losses. It is very difficult to predict what the result will be, after all, we must look at it again when we make the next decisions. But I can say [almost] about this support measure, which has been discussed here, and for which we are seriously, in fact, already tomorrow, we have to consider whether the EUR 673 that is the limit of relative poverty for the first household member from there we will continue to calculate which household income is below which 20% of households are still sufficient. It seems that the next tens of percent [households] are no longer able to cope with these price increases either. We need to think... well, what is the measure that we have confirmed and which is financed by carbon trading money, which also comes more thanks to this high price. It is possible to make a direct link here that, since more money comes from CO2 trade, we either invest that money or give it back to people. The current forecast for this money is that this year's surplus from the latest forecast will be as much as 50 million, and it will probably be over-exploited next year as well. So tomorrow, we will have to calculate more precisely that if we raise this border even towards the average income, in order to decide which households could receive support, because they are also in trouble, how much it will cost. But I believe that basically this source, the money from CO2, can cover it. It also does not require any changes to the state budget, and it is in principle possible to make this decision within the government. In answer to the question: I really cannot predict the profit of Eesti Energia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U74	And now the point to be clarified. Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U75	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The question continues to be for you as acting Prime Minister. Prices have risen, above all electricity prices have gone up a lot, and this actually affects not only the people with the lowest incomes, but also the Estonian family with an average and even a little above average income and how to cope with it. The rising prices of food, nursing homes, transport, hobby groups are basically a matter of life. We know what will happen in the future: those prices that have increased today will not fall. Essentially, the rise in prices will eat up the wage growth of the people this year and, to a large extent, the result of next year's wage growth, i.e. its appreciation, is that the people of Estonia are poorer in the spring than they were this autumn. It is quite a serious problem that we actually share these proportions in society over and over well, but we still share them around and some people's livelihoods are very affected. I wonder if the government has any plan to level out this major social change in any way, and if there is a plan, please, tell me if you have discussed it in the government. No more subsidies will be sufficient here, but there will be changes in the tax system or something like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U76	Thank you for your question. As an experienced politician, I think that, as far as the tax debate is concerned, it tends to stay there, given the approach of the parliamentary elections, in the area of the whole system. As far as energy prices and energy carriers are concerned, these tools have been considered by the government that they can be implemented as quickly as possible. The reduction in the [fees] of the network service simply meant that we had to pay EUR 90 million from the reserve of the Government of the Republic. This reached [consumers] at the earliest, we decided at the end of October, and the October accounts already had half of the network service [charge] deducted. That was the fastest approach. The support measure may seem a little bureaucratic and complicated, but it was also possible for local governments to pay them [grants] out in accordance with both the directive and the law. S.T.A.R.R.'s development is also fast-tracked. Thanks to the SCA and the S.T.A.R.T. developers that we've made it this far. It's all done pretty fast, because there was only a month to do it. As far as other prices are concerned, I would come back to VAT. Is it going on? This is the subject of a longer debate. As a middle party, I would say that indirect taxes must be as low as possible, I think the Social Democrats are talking about the same and direct taxes could be higher, but let's not start this debate here today. However, at least as a temporary measure, a reduction in VAT could also lead to inflation [slowing]. If we do this even with regard to energy carriers, the prices of energy carriers will be passed on to all other prices. The biggest impact that has been highlighted at the moment in the price increase, which in itself was perhaps more than 8%, was, in my opinion, about 40% affected by the 8% impact on energy prices, and I do not remember the exact figures. So if we can slow down energy prices, we will in itself also slow down the overall price increase. The withdrawal of excise increases was also a conscious choice, a forward-looking move to avoid higher inflation in the future. Is there any other steps that can be taken here? It has to be considered. Are we, on the one hand, dealing with measures that affect everyone, as was the partial compensation for network services, or should we look at any temporary tax reduction in the future? Or should we deal with getting to the middle family? Because not only are beneficiaries of income support hit by 10,000 households. Or [consider] even the measure that we prepared and in which some 70,000 households would have received support? I think we should cover, compensate, compensate about half of Estonia's people, households, for the impact of this price increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U77	And now one more question. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U78	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. We know this now about the existence of high energy costs, we have already talked about this, that what is happening on the Nord Pool stock market is a very important part. I would ask a very specific question that I had yesterday when I looked at ERR's "First Studio," where Sandor Liive was performing and interviewed. He came up with a very interesting fact. It was amazing in this sense that even Sandor Liive, who deals with energy issues on a daily basis, was extremely puzzled by the fact that we have been partners in Nord Pool and this participation has been sold out in the meantime. Even he didn't know anything about it. When we talk about the fact that we cannot influence this process in any way there, yesterday it turned out that we couldn't even access these data anymore. I have this question that maybe you know when it was done, why it was done, at what price this stake was sold and why it was needed in the first place.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U79	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U80	Thank you for your question. I cannot answer the detailed questions raised at the end of this question; unfortunately, I did not see this show either. But I think that Taavi Aas, as minister in this field, maybe this stock market thing and these details can be more enlightened. You'll have questions for Javier. As far as exit is concerned, my assessment is that we can think that the stock exchange is bad and hurts us a lot, but the main reasons for rising energy prices are still two. One is the corona crisis, where certain production capacities were pulled together at the beginning of the crisis, with lower demand. Now that the economy has begun to emerge from the crisis, we are still in contact with this infection, but you can see that Estonia is experiencing very rapid economic growth, that there is very rapid economic growth worldwide, that demand has grown exponentially, which means that energy production has reached its end. How long is that gonna take? Experts say the most painful thing is somewhere till spring. What happens next, I don't know. The second main reason why we are scratching our heads here over these prices is the lack of production capacity in this region. I saw that Äripäev or Delfi had brought out the reference numbers. For some reason, only Western European figures had been wanted to show that it was cheaper than us, although Finns are not much cheaper. In Central Europe there have been even more expensive prices in a certain period than we have. Perhaps we are saying that we are lacking in production capacity or that these capacities are very expensive in terms of policies adopted together [because], such as producing electricity from gas, and that they are upsetting the price. Gas is a major source of electricity from across Europe. We must contribute to making the production capacity in this market situation and the regulation that we have here as cheap as possible. I guess we have taken some serious steps here, both in the previous government and in the current government, to finally dismantle this issue of renewable energy production development, so that, after all, this wind power will become more solar energy. Taavi knows that fewer offers and competitions for renewable energy have also been made. This will be gradually increased and, in the long term, we must resolve it in such a way that there will be more of these production capacities in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U81	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U82	Let's move on to question seven. It is presented by Kert Kingo, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by the Minister for Social Protection Signe Riisalo, and the subject is public health. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U83	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu is in the process of the Public Health Act. According to the draft law, the aim of this law is to ensure the protection of human health, to create the conditions for an increase in the life expectancy and healthy life expectancy of the population, to prevent and reduce undesirable health effects and inequalities in the health status of the population and thereby to achieve positive changes in the health of the population. Paragraph 59 (3) of this draft provides for § 56 of the Health Services Organisation Act, which sets out the tasks of the Minister and a list of the acts to be laid down by the Minister, to be supplemented by paragraph 12 of the following wording: "12) the conditions and procedures for dealing with gender mismatches, according to which the Medical Expertise Committee shall base its decision on the persistence of gender mismatches and a psychiatrist's assessment, which precludes gender mismatches from arising from mental disorder. " Explain to me how this so - called gender mismatch relates specifically to public health, health in the sense of this bill. How does this contribute to the protection of health, the increase in life expectancy and healthy life expectancy, the prevention and reduction of undesirable health effects?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U84	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U85	Good manager! Good Riigikogu! Thank you, Mrs Kert Kingo, for the question. But I must begin by saying that the Public Health Act is the draft of Minister Tanel Kiige, and he also regulates this area. This is a purely medical decision-making exercise, also involving psychiatrists, which is being done with regard to gender adjustment. But when we approach this question in the sense that how it affects public health, public health is the health and well-being of every person, and every person can feel well in his body when he can be who he is mentally. Therefore, the regulation of gender correction is indeed linked to the Public Health Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U86	And now the point to be clarified. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U87	Thank you again, Mr President. Dear Minister, According to the Health Services Organisation Act, which is supplemented by the introduction of a section on conditions and procedures for gender mismatch, the health care service is a health care professional's activity in preventing, diagnosing and treating illness, injury or poisoning with the aim of alleviating a person's distress, preventing a deterioration in his or her medical condition or an exacerbation and restoring health. I remain unclear about the relationship between gender mismatch and public health law and also about the organisation of health services. I do not understand the logic of putting this issue into these laws. It seems that another bill has been published that has been built up without any logic and good legislative practice. It's just been done by putting a nice subject on the Minister somewhere in the law. The question, however, is this: what is the gender mismatch between these health services listed above? Is this mismatch treated as an illness, injury, poisoning, distress, worsening of health or worsening of the disease? What, then, is the meaning of the law: diagnosis or mental state?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U88	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U89	The direct question is, what is it classified under? It's a diagnosis. And as for the choice in which law one or the other rule should be reflected, isn't that the question of options? Of course, the Riigikogu will also have the opportunity to make proposals here if you see that another law is more suitable for regulating this area. But really, gender adjustment has been a health issue, and it is indeed a diagnosis that a psychiatrist puts into it. As a result, a process will be launched that will be regulated by the Public Health Act and the regulations to be issued will be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U90	And now one more question. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U91	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. We know what is really behind this draft point, but now explain the human languages to the people of Estonia, what is gender mismatch, the persistence of gender mismatch. Are we actually talking about transgenderity, gender change, gender change operations at the expense of the state, including young people and children, as is the case in Sweden? How would this law regulate this process? What services will the state finance from taxpayers' money in the future? How will the application procedure change? And what is the purpose of all this? There has also been talk about the Commission, which will deal with these issues. I would also ask, then, what is the composition of the proposed Commission and who will be in charge of it, because, actually, let us be honest, these people are starting to depend on the direction to which we are actually going under the public health label on gender change.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U92	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U93	Thank you for the clarification. I would like to start by saying again that this is the law of the Minister of Labour and Health, Tanel Kiige, and I have no precise knowledge of how they plan to conduct this activity in the case of a certain diagnosis, which is a psychiatric diagnosis, indeed, we are talking about transgenderity. The Commission has also been in place under existing law. This autumn, the Commission's membership was changed and renewed so that gender change is still available to people. This option is not extended, nor is it now dependent on the age of the individual. If we base ourselves on the knowledge of experts and doctors in the field, we can say that people's gender identity will develop at an earlier age rather than later. Perhaps fears because in teens, when young people are very vulnerable and can go along with group behavior [and want to change their sex, are baseless. ] In fact, gender identity develops at a significantly earlier age, the fifth year of life. Hence, there is no age limit. Of course, no such procedures are carried out until the age of five, but the law is independent of the age of a person who wants to make a sex change. And I repeat: if you have a more precise interest in this, please, if Tanel Kiik comes to the briefing, ask him.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U94	And now the procedural question. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U95	Thank you, Mr President. As I recall in the Committee on Social Affairs, you introduced this draft, at least a part of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U96	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U97	Let us move on to the eighth question, which is asked by Aivar Kokk, a member of the Riigikogu. This is answered by Jaak Aab, Minister of Public Administration, in the role of Prime Minister; the subject is a heroe. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U98	Good manager! Dear Minister, During this government, the office of Minister of the Environment has been in the hands of your party, and as far as I have talked to the previous and current Minister of the Environment, one of the things that has always excited them and for which they have fought has been the reduction in cutting capacity. Now, on Monday in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, it came as a surprise that, at the order of the Minister of Finance, the officials of the Ministry of Finance prepared a proposal for an amendment from the state budget for the following year, which was covered by an increase in cutting volumes, in theory, i.e. an increase in the expectation of the RMK dividend. I know that during the previous government, there was a very clear decision in the RES discussions that Rally Estonia would be supported by the government reserve. Looking at the state budget for next year, the government reserves EUR 2 million for the big event. And now I see that support for culture and sport in support of WRC Rally Estonia has been put in place to increase the expectations of the RMK dividend by 2.5 million. Has the Centre Party changed its policy and just crashed into its ministers? The most interesting thing is that this decision is not a government decision, but it came to us in the Committee on Monetary Affairs with a clear message that it is a proposal or a wish from the Minister for Finance. And, of course, coalition politicians unanimously [supported] or not quite unanimously, five out of six supported, Jürgen Ligi abstained.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U99	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U100	Thanks for asking. First of all, this principle. I am not familiar with all the details of this proposal. You were so good at laying these details out here, I really don't know. But as far as RMK's cutting volumes are concerned, or how much of the dividend is being taken from it, as far as I know, this proposal, where... probably, yes, was trying to find cover for the WRC rally, so that it should not be done from the government reserve, which is not very large, like you, Aivar, even known. I think there's six million euros left. How's that gonna work out next year? Well, the transferable reserves are coming over, so maybe we can. It's the profit actually coming this year. It doesn't increase the volume of felling in a way that turns the future. And that overcharged profit from which you can take the dividend comes from the fact that prices have simply gone up. What RMK has delivered this year is that these prices have gone up so hard that there is more profit earned and there is also the possibility of spending on the dividend to be paid on it. It is usually planned to draw up a budget, and it is expected that we will take so much dividend and include it in the state budget. But just as energy prices have gone up suddenly, some other prices have gone up very unexpectedly, and [increase in profit] is possible without increasing the volume of felling, which I can certainly confirm. A longer line in the national budget strategy, when you look at these figures, is, in fact, reducing the expectation of the dividend in RMK and thereby reducing the pressure of logging.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U101	And now one more question. Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U102	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I often don't know if it's a green tourniquet, or if it's a green tourniquet. I see that we are moving towards a redemption in the rural area, also in connection with this green turn, and that is very sad. For example, I expect the Environment Board to respond almost a year already to the cost of protecting one of the flying squirrels for society, or to the impact on [green turn] food production, for example, the export of cereals, how [greens] affect livestock farming and poultry farming, how energy security is affected. I would ask whether we rely on analyses or emotions or on who is paid for. For example, a leader of ornithologists said in the spring at a meeting with the producers, when there was talk of goose damage, that he was being paid for the protection of birds, and how the producers were doing was none of his business. Can we still rely on socio-economic analyses when making decisions that what this will bring us is that, in five or ten years' time, will it cause damage or rather damage? It would be very sad if we were to liquidate our business, especially the rural economy, and make our people dependent on subsidies. I see this trend very clearly right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U103	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U104	Thank you for a good and topical question, Merry. Well, here I am prying for this regional policy and for the development of rural areas. We have done something, though, with quite concrete measures. For example, on 1 January, the measure will be triggered by the possibility of obtaining a guarantee from KredEx for the purchase or renovation of a dwelling in a rural area outside a market area. It's been talked about for a long time, and I've been pushing it for three years. Well, we got there on January 1st. Regional measures to support living, entrepreneurship and job creation outside larger cities are increasingly needed. In fact, in the next funding period, all measures must be regionally prioritised. Less and less money comes to this developed region and more and more goes there, let's say, not so fast in the developing region. I don't want to say any worse, but that's the way it is. Some happy news. Over the last four years, the growth of disparities between regions has actually slowed down, stabilised. It's not happy yet, either, but at least it hasn't gotten any worse. The statistics show this. I think the decisions of the government and the Riigikogu have also had an impact here. I think one of the tough regional policy decisions was when we increased the income base of local governments across Estonia. The municipalities that have become larger as a result of the reform have a larger wallet and can improve local life, create conditions for the development of entrepreneurship, job creation and provision of services. The total revenue of the municipalities has increased by 50% over the last five years, much faster than the revenue of the state budget. So we are looking very much at the municipalities, and we are also looking forward to the development of these regions. Now for the analysis. Speaking of the new climate package, various proposals on the agenda have been made by quite a number of institutions, such as the Stockholm Institute, as I know. We're gonna break our heads pretty hard. These proposals are known to talk about Taavi Aas and Tõnis Mölder, who was formerly Minister of the Environment, and the current Minister Erki Savisaar. In our office, too, these points of view are constantly going through. We have tried to keep a position as flexible as possible in the negotiations, because looking at how quickly these initiatives can be implemented in Europe, it seems that they will not be able to do so very quickly. And we are still trying to find a balance there, also on the basis of the interests of the Estonian state and our situation, whether it be the forest or agriculture or something else. Proposals have been made in different directions. We need to find the places that, in the perspective, give us the opportunity to develop, rather than hindering development anywhere, as certain proposals may make. It's a pretty serious process, and it's gonna last a long time. I can't tell you where we're going. We are trying to defend Estonia's interests.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U105	And here's a very specific question. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U106	Thank you. Dear Minister, The dividend's hope is on this year's revenues. The price of wood did not rise in September, perhaps now in December, if it were known, more could be made from wood. But thank you for that answer. The second issue is CO2 quotas. We know that, in fact, all the calculations by the European Commission are based on a price of EUR 25 to 26 per tonne. Today the price is already EUR 82, by 2022 EUR 130 per tonne and by the end of 2023 EUR 240 per tonne. The real situation is that we do not have security of supply. Five or six years ago, Estonia produced 100% to cover its needs, but yesterday it was covered by two thirds and in 2025 only half of it will be covered at rush hour. Tomorrow you will discuss how to compensate or support Estonian people and entrepreneurs. Have you also thought about restoring the universal service to small producers in Estonia? Two thirds of households in Lithuania and all households in France are covered by it. Today we know that the cost price of electricity produced in Eesti Energia is less than 30 euros. If we put everything in there with taxes, productivity, value added tax, it will still be less than EUR 50. Even if we consider the price of CO2 to be EUR 82, as was the case yesterday, the price cannot in any way rise to EUR 1000 per megawatt-hour. Does it not seem to you that the actions of certain officials and government leaders have been why we have reached the situation that our productivity or performance is only 50% by 2025? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U107	Thank you for your question. All nuances will certainly be better explained in Taavi Aas as a minister in this field. But general sentiments are, as I described, that demand is growing very rapidly at certain moments. In Estonia, I think we made a wise decision that we left these boilers in reserve. According to another plan, which was then ready, they had to be shut down in a row. However, since they are not yet fully depreciated and can still produce small investments in the Estonian Energia road, these boilers produce small investments at all times. Let's hope Auvere gets back to work after these little shits. So we have at least these boilers. If we didn't have them, we'd really be in real trouble right now. Different production capacities need to be deployed and supported. Taavi knows that less and less offers have been made in the case of renewable energy to bring more production capacity, be they solar panels or wind energy. In fact, cogeneration plants are now the main place where we will have the volume of renewable energy. We must continue to operate on this route. If we are to encourage the generation of electricity in households, whether with panels or something else, then we must also think about it. We're planning on doing this thing pretty wide tomorrow. I don't know how specific decisions we're going to make, but it's like I want to see the background, what else can we do to bring more power faster. Another issue is the issue of mitigating the current acute price increases. Much depends on the Javier that brings him to the table tomorrow.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U108	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U109	Let's move on to question nine. It has been presented by Ivari Padar, which is answered by Jaak Aab, Minister of Public Administration, in the role of Prime Minister, and the subject is the availability of state services. Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U110	Mr. Acting Prime Minister. In fact, you have already answered my question once today about the availability of public services. I thought I'd never ask that question again, but let's talk. None of us are interested in the state acting like a fool. Builds real estate, a state house, builds a counter there, and then holds it. In fact, for a person, a new police house is also a state house, because there are public operations, it is a state house. In the same way, the former Executive Committee of the State House is the building from which the State House is now made. That's exactly the situation right now. Really, these D.O.R. cuts are an unthinkable subject. [I am not saying this] not because I am in opposition. The second topic that is there is, once again, the state. It's a police matter, district police. The number of regional police officers is currently being cut and very large areas have been handed over to the regional police. They have been given very large regions and very serious problems. It is clear that reducing the number of regional police officers is a smaller role for the country. Not if I go to my constituents, they often don't understand, I'm an opposition or a coalition. They say the state has acted foolishly: it builds a counter, but it doesn't put a person there. I have such a question that, if the budget is put in place today and if these budgetary discussions have been, you have said that you will be very attentive to what will happen in the areas of these services. How's that working out for you? It's like you have to be a good fairy in regional policy. If these things come to the government, you'd have to sort of put them in a row just so you know, these things don't really work out like that. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U111	Using questioner's wording, good fairy Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U112	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you, questioner! I guess I tried to describe as much as I could, the process that affected the austerity plan. Finally, it will be realized by the Ministry through specific agencies. If the questioner thinks that we [know] in the spring of drafting the RES or, for example, in the autumn of the Ministry of the Interior, by reducing the austerity plan, it was our firm wish when we talk about our delegation in the government, and that we achieved this, how it will materialise specifically in these budget lines or in the workplaces on the ground[, then he is wrong]. This will only come at the end of the year: if you adopt the budget, the ministries will make their plans. That's where it comes out. To be able to control all of this systemically is difficult. As I have said, I have really tried to monitor all such issues in the government, to express my opinions and to try to direct these decisions so that services [will] pass through Estonia. [It also concerns] the various measures and programmes which contribute to the promotion of rural areas, both in sparsely populated areas and more generally in regional centres or other centres. Still trying to do it. As regards the availability of public buildings services, it is the case that the PBA is also a state building and their design, we are going to go back to the details, or to the service counter, that is the detail. Half the documents are made in self-service, and the same box where you can take a photo is open every day, even though you can't get to the counter every day. I guess we're gonna have to get a little more used to self-service and e-services. I understand that it is difficult for the rural people for the time being. That's why I was talking about a state house where there's an information worker who can at least help a person, so he shouldn't track down a particular official to whom he can get to, but [information worker] will help him get to this service as a digital service, as an e-service. I made sure most documents can actually be made in self-service. Most people can be self-serviced. But there's still a problem. We have a common concern, either the opposition or the coalition. Well, Ivar, you know how life in the countryside is gonna turn out. We have really made a huge contribution to local governments, their revenues, various regional programmes. I dare say that I am now the watchdog who monitors how the next programmes based on European funding are regionally prioritised, and I will also draw up an Estonian regional action plan, where all ministries show how they prioritise their actions and programmes so that rural areas, less developed regions, are favoured.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U113	Specific question, Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U114	Yes, thank you! I guess I know from experience how easy it is at central government level to do a thing, a digital solution. Let's solve the problem, we have a digital solution. We're gonna get rid of some people behind the counter again because we have a digital solution. However, it is often difficult to hit people, including me, with these digital solutions! Including me. Do you have a solution in this regard? It says here that there are people who have approached the Chancellor of Justice that please allow me out of the e-state. What are these solutions? How can I support people when using digital solutions? I remember that in the case of PRIA's digital solutions, it was that the PRIA had a network where people were supported in this matter some years ago. What are the odds? Believe me, based on digital solutions only, without a supporting side being added, the digital solution becomes a fool.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U115	Yeah, again, I don't know how to speak here for all the areas. This consultation or advice on how with an e-service or digital solution, you can get your things solved with this slightly more universal approach we are trying to offer in public houses. But this program is still in progress, I can't report all the achievements yet. There is an information worker who advises, announces, directs to the right official or service and helps to do it. There's nothing to do. After all, if we want to cope with the ever-increasing costs, it is that we want a better service. As people, we want an ever better society, a welfare society where all services are guaranteed at the best possible level. But then we get to the other questions. Then we will get to the extent to which we have a tax burden, how much we are willing to contribute together to having a welfare society. We are at the moment in a situation where we are really trying to do so as optimally as possible with regard to the costs of government administration. There's nothing to do. Today, computers, information technology and e-services help save money. If we hadn't done them, our costs would be even higher. We would be in even greater difficulties and would be able to offer people even less of these services. But everything is evolving and everything is mobile today, but both e-service and counter services are definitely needed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U116	And now for an additional question. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U117	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. We all know that it is no secret that distribution problems already do not allow all e-services to be used in rural areas. Are you aware that already by the end of the year, there are no free numbers in many regions, even now, even though we have a reception at the PBA for five days a week? As for Viljandi, the PMA department that deals with documents is doing an excellent job, advising people in every way, and really in five days it will be able to solve the queue. But check the status of today's online registration. Even now, there are no more free times for the rest of the year. What happens at the beginning of the new year? Looks like we're kind of in a bit of a shift because of this. I agree that we have a certain capacity, we have a tax burden and we have a huge number of tasks and people are waiting for a good service. But we can't do it like it's made-made, not meant-made. We're talking about getting to the last mile and solving these problems. Yeah, we'll get there, but we're already cutting the country in local governments. Reducing the number of police officers, reducing the opening hours, believe, people just get the feeling that the country is taking not one step, but several steps forward from that area. And back.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U118	Thank you for your question. Everything is very right and often painful questions for me too. But under limited resources, we need to manage this way so that the quality of the service does not fall, so I say, even when we talk about the reform of the state or about the activities that I do. As regards the queues and opening hours, I really want to talk to the Minister for the Interior more specifically so that it is not possible to organise this more rationally. And if there's any major traffic jams, they're gonna have to be solved operationally. Perhaps you should think then, because it is now obvious that the queues are going to be so long, whether it makes sense to reduce [the counter] from 1 January or whether it should be done more smoothly. I am certainly talking to the Minister for the Interior, because our goal really is not that people should not be able to access the service, must suffer, or, as it has been observed here, that not every person may have access to the service provider on a working day. You should think more flexibly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U119	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U120	Let's move on. Question ten, Martin Helme. Mart Helme has a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U121	The procedural question is that, unfortunately, since Mr Helme cannot be here now, is it possible to change my question and his?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U122	We don't have that chance yet, but we can get to the point where you can ask. Question 11, Peter Ernits. Since he's not in the hall, it's off.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U123	The 12th question is asked by Mart Helme, member of the Riigikogu, answers the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Taavi Aas, the subject is austerity measures. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U124	Thank you. Peter Ernits did show up, but because I'm scary...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U125	But it's late. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U126	Which one? Still for me? Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. We all know that toilets and trash cans are being picked up off the highway. It has become a great deal of trouble, but it is, of course, a change compared to what austerity measures lead to other infrastructure development and investment. Would you please bring out, in the main, the cuts that hit the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications? I am thinking not only of reducing the construction of roads, but also of power lines, power substations, railways and so on. I'm not going to extend the list in terms of time savings.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U127	Tavi Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U128	Thank you. As far as the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is concerned, there will actually be no cuts in investments next year. We're good with investments. Our cut-off plan concerned a total cost of 6.8 million, the largest part of which, 3.8 million, is under the administration of the Transport Department. And that is precisely the cost side. On the expenditure side, we did indeed find additional resources for public transport or for transport subsidies at all. Unfortunately, these funds were simply not sufficient, given the current forecasts regarding the increase in fuel prices. It is possible that resources will also be sufficient if fuel prices really fall. Now, as far as these toilets and trash cans are concerned, just as we have said, from the very beginning, it is certainly not all trash cans. This issue will be thoroughly reviewed by the Transport Department. And actually, it only affects fifty out of 600 trash cans, or 550 trash cans. So the concern that we shouldn't be trashing anywhere along the highway shouldn't arise. But yes, it concerns these large waste bins, where, unfortunately, old furniture and all that were taken from home and not to waste disposal sites. But yes, the main concern for next year is precisely cost savings. Investments will be good next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U129	Thank you. I thank everyone. I will conclude on this issue. I thank all the members of the Riigikogu and I thank the members of the Government of the Republic for their answers. Question Time is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U130	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the 10th working week session of the VI session on Wednesday. The members of the Riigikogu now have the opportunity to hand over drafts and questions. The first is the desire to do so on Helir-Valdor Seeder. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U131	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Had I known what was going to happen, the second pillar of the pension would indeed have been tied to the price of electricity and we would have all won. But the price of electricity is insane and has shocked both households and businesses. The government traditionally naps, it's hibernating. In order to awaken the government from hibernation, the Isamaa Group has submitted a draft decision of the Riigikogu on the confirmation of the principles of the reform of the electricity market, which contains briefly the following. Within one month, the government will develop a programme for the reform of the electricity market to protect domestic and small consumers, based on the following principles: Firstly, electricity sellers are obliged to provide small customers with an off-exchange electricity package, as provided for in the new universal service, whose pricing is coordinated with the Competition Authority. Secondly, Nord Pool's electricity market in the Estonian price area is obliged to sell directly, without a stock exchange, the electricity needed to meet the new universal service obligation. The pricing shall be based on the costs of generating electricity and on the return on capital in accordance with the rules laid down by the Competition Authority and the prices shall be coordinated with the Competition Authority. Thirdly, in the form of a budget allocation to electricity producers, the State compensates for the cost of the CO2 quota for electricity produced as a universal service. I hope that this short but substantive and understandable proposal and the decision of the Riigikogu will help us to emerge from this crisis and prevent any extreme fluctuations in electricity prices in the future, as we are seeing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U132	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U133	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, In a situation where the current government is applying electroshock therapy to the public, it seems that there are no other issues. In fact, there are many other issues. And one of the key issues that must never fall out of focus is the civil rights of all of us. Estonia has, as we know, very loudly criticised the actions of the leaders of the authoritarian regimes of neighbouring Russia and Belarus in repressing the opposition. We now see that similar trends have reached our southern neighbour, Latvia. In Latvia, the decision has been taken that members of the Seim or local government who have not been vaccinated or have not suffered from corona cannot perform their duties. Not only was Aldis Gobzems, a member of Latvia's parliamentary immunity, arrested on 6 December. We have questions for the Prime Minister in this regard. Has the government of the Republic of Estonia protested against such practices of the government of a neighbouring state? Secondly, does the Government of the Republic of Estonia see here a parallel with the measures taken by Alexander Lukashenko and Vladimir Putin's regime against dissidents? Thirdly, has your government considered the possibility of taking similar measures against Estonian MEPs? We expect meaningful, exhaustive and reassuring responses from the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U134	I thought I'd use a slightly different tactic. I'll be quiet here, and I'll listen to you, see if we can get the hall quieter, but I can also point out that we have some important messages to tell you. First of all, I have adopted a draft and an inquiry on behalf of the Bureau, and we will decide in the Bureau that they will be dealt with further in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Another important message is that we can now carry out a presence check. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U135	87 members of the Riigikogu registered as present.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U136	Ladies and gentlemen, I also have a third very important message for you. Indeed, we missed the first reading of draft 462 yesterday and it was not in progress during the negotiation phase. Jaanus Karilaid, Jaak Valge and Lauri Läänemets had expressed their wish to speak. So let us therefore continue the debate on this point. Call chair, Jaanus Karilaid, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U137	Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank Marko Šorin for his very good presentation yesterday and the presentation of the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U138	Jaanus, I'm sorry! Ladies and gentlemen, really, a terrible buzz is here. Colleagues back there, Onion and Mölder, hello! Who wants to have a conversation here also above, please do it outside. Otherwise, we're all gonna miss the presidential debate that Mr. Karilaid here is trying to tell us.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U139	Mr. Onion, come this way, I'll talk about you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U140	Really, please all take this tone now so that we can hear Karila, too. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U141	Ladies and gentlemen, The Centre Party was, is and will remain true to the idea of direct presidential election. Thank you for not being supported in this initiative in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs led by the Reform Party Toomas Kivimäe. Yesterday, we heard words of support from Priit Sibula, a member of the Fatherland, who was concerned that the bill should not stop, the bill must not be left to collect dust. I see that the Fatherland is finally going to come out of the earth and heaven and to shape its position, and it is a sincere pleasure. In the nineties, the Centre Party was alone with the idea of direct presidential election. After the turn of the century, Urmas Reinsalu Res Publica and Märt Rask, Siim Kallas and Jürgen Ligi from the Reform Party came as our allies. In total, 72 signatures were on the Central Party bill at one point, but then our allies got tired, the initiative stopped. We were alone with it for years. But then we got new allies, EKRE and one Social Democrat, 45 signatures. That's how this composition converges and gathers. Ladies and gentlemen, who do not yet support this draft. You have to overcome fear. The field of action of the parties must be extended to the centre of the people. You have to trust your people more. The back rooms of the parties have not been infallible. Don't think people can't make the right choice. He can! And let us remember that the state remains trustful, the people's trust. Let us get rid of fear and support the direct election of the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U142	Now, Jack White has given up his call, I understand. You didn't? Then please, Jaak White, you were before Lauri in the West Forest yesterday. So please! Mr. Ligi, would you like a recliner? Mr White, I would like to ask you to wait a moment, Mr Ligi has two minutes' opportunity to speak back because he has been mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U143	Thank you. Here's what I have to say. I have not become an ally of the President's direct election supporters in this or last millennium. That was vile slander. But I have been an ally of Siim Kallas. He regrets such an initiative, and so do I. It's one of the few times I've just given my signature, how to say it politely, by mistake.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U144	Now, it turns out that Mr Karilaiu has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U145	I can't tell you how we're gonna identify it, but 2003 was the signature of Jürgen Ligi under the direct selection bill. Whether it was sincere or disoriented, we will make sure of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U146	It was not a procedural question, Mr Karilaid. Mr Reinsalu, your name has been mentioned, do you have a wish for a rejoinder or not? You've noted yourself. Do you want some? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U147	Thank you. No, I didn't sign in a distraction. In 2003, Jürgen beside me, I beside Jürgen and others, Siim Kallas in front of everything. This law was, of course, initiated to amend the Constitution. It wasn't the force that ended, it was the Reform Party that ran away from the coalition. That's why the ride stopped. But if it had been done in its time, it would have been done in its time, it would have been our constitutional reality.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U148	I'm glad... [[In the Laughing Hall.]] I am pleased to see that the spirit of the parliamentary debate is also coming more and more into the Chamber. Now this content is expected to create Jaak White. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U149	I'm asking for three more minutes right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U150	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U151	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear listeners, I am not talking about the substance of this bill, maybe there are some small nuances that should be updated, but that is not the point. The main point is that, between 1993 and now, there have been 12 drafts in Parliament which would provide for the direct election of the President. These drafts are similar, which means that a common understanding has developed. In society too, as you know, there is no lack of support for the direct election of the President. On the contrary, it is supported by two thirds of Estonian adult citizens. This is one of the reforms that has one of the biggest grants among citizens in Estonia. Using the words of Urmas Reinsalu, who, by the way, was one of the direct drafters of the 2003 election with Jürgen Ligi, the President should be the author of topics, conciliator and adviser in society, so he should be trustworthy, experienced in life and perceive Estonia. Very well said. This can be ensured by direct selection, not by cow trading with the votes of local councillors, as is the case today. I could talk a lot more about these half arguments, but the point is to stop at the arguments. One very widely used statement is that Of course, I may not agree with these arguments at all. But when we look at those European countries where the President is directly elected, it turns out that this does not depend on the geographical position. In the European Union, presidents are elected directly in 14 countries, slightly more than half. There are these countries, both north and south, both west and east. Why should we choose one of them, or why are we immature here? The second argument, which has been used against direct elections, and I understand that this was also done in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, is that we have a representative democracy. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U152	Ladies and gentlemen, There was a hint from the back lines that the buzzing in the hall was still so big that the rear lines couldn't hear. I'm really asking you to keep it down in the hall. We can't really turn it up in sound engineering, we can do a little bit, but still. Who has their own debates, the Riigikogu cafe will certainly offer you a cup of coffee as well and you can discuss it nicely there. Please, Mr. White!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U153	Yeah, I can speak with a louder voice, but it may not be very aesthetic. This statement that we have a representative democracy, and that is why we must not, in fact, divide these countries into representative democracy and direct democracy. If this is the case, please tell me a country that is a direct democracy. They are still divided into democracies and undemocratic ones. And directly electing the President doesn't make us any less democratic. On the contrary, the direct election of the President corresponds more to the core definition of democracy than the election of the President in Parliament or in the electoral body. Thirdly, it is claimed that the election of the President can severely polarise society or, as we heard yesterday, in the case of a direct election, the President is elected by the press. But let us ask why it is the presidential elections that polarise or whether the press has a smaller role to play in the parliamentary elections. Let me remind you that democracy is a competition for different ideas, and the press really has a role to play in communicating these ideas. I would also like to point out that the presidential election is different from the parliamentary elections, when political parties appeal, in particular, to the votes of citizens who think closely about their programme. Political parties do not usually appeal to the support of the majority of the electorate; the directly elected President must do so. Thus, in the presidential campaign, on the contrary, there is a search for common ground and a sharp avoidance of polarising issues and the establishment of problems that are important in society but still hidden in the dominant party politics. Fourthly, it has been argued against the direct election of the President that it is impossible to establish a direct election, as in this case the mandate of the President should necessarily be extended. It's actually a more serious argument, but it hasn't been proven. And it doesn't seem to be true. At least the experience of other countries of the European Union does not confirm this. For example, the functions of the directly elected President of Austria have become totally ceremonial in practice, although de jure is quite extensive in his powers. I must admit that I have not carried out a bottom-up analysis, but on the basis of a comparison of constitutions, I could say that the directly elected Czech, Slovak, Slovenian, Bulgarian and Croatian presidents are essentially of the same power as the directly elected Estonian President. They have more powers, some fewer. Finally, this expansion of the President's powers is not a taboo issue, but an issue that can also be discussed in any other way. In any case, it is quite certain that some expansion of the President's mandate, if necessary, will be possible without amending the Constitution. So I come to the conclusion that there are no or no substantive arguments against it. Finally, I say that the EKRE has always been in favour of directly electing the President and there is no reason to believe that we will ever abandon this objective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U154	For the Socialists, Lauri Western Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U155	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill does not have Social Democrat signatures, except for Raimond Kaljulaid. I will explain to you why, which are the greatest challenges of this draft, which has not been resolved in any way in this debate either. The first challenge for this draft, a major deficiency, concerns the powers of the President. As we have asked in this Chamber yesterday during the debate, we have discussed this in the Commission, the will of the initiators of the draft is that the President's mandate should remain the same as it is now. For some reason, the presidential election systems tend to copy [other countries] or look to other countries. Yes, you can see how the systems work there, but the background of each country, the background of each nation, the story of the formation of each society, is different. We often do not take this into account and this draft has not really done so either. Somehow, it has been said that the people of Estonia would simply like to elect a president, and that is why a direct vote should be made. No, you don't! I think that the Estonian person, if he elects the President, wants to choose the kind of president whose word is paid and that his mandate does not go to waste. I think that such a president would be wanted to be elected if they wanted to be elected, isn't it? If we don't change those powers, we're kind of fooling people. Actually, we're cheating on people, saying you can choose the president, but look, this president and your voice have no power whatsoever. In essence, we are reducing the power of the voice of the people. I think it's a big problem, you shouldn't fool people. If we get there now that we really find a way to increase the President's powers, there will be a new question, and this new question is whether we have a parliamentary state or whether we have a presidential state and where we are inclined and how much. In my opinion, for the first time in the Estonian constitution and now in the current constitution, the Estonian people have clearly stated their vision and will: Estonia is a parliamentary state. This is because, in fact, through Parliament, every person's voice and will are significantly better represented. Can I have an extra three minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U156	Please! Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U157	The second reason for the presidential elections is that there is today a major debate between Parliament and the government. I dare say that if we choose the President directly, Parliament will be excluded from these debates, because the President will have a very strong mandate for the people and the debate will go between the President and the government. Where is the role of Parliament, how well the voice of the people is represented, there are no real answers to this question. It hasn't been analyzed either. I think it's a very important thing. Now, the third question is that the choices put before the people will eventually become the President of a party. The current system directs, if there is no will or there is some other problem, parties that represent different views, who represent different desires, different visions of social developments, to seek common ground. As we have seen in the last presidential elections, at least three parliamentary parties, if not four, [must look for a common section]. The current system is aimed at the widest possible common element. In the case of the direct election of the President, yes, several candidates will be put out at the beginning, but ultimately, ladies and gentlemen, it is the choice of a candidate for one party, and there is no need to look for a common element. A candidate for one party will be elected and we will have the presidents of one party. We're going to have a completely different social debate. And I think that's a pretty big problem. That's a pretty big problem. These are three reasons why this bill is difficult to take seriously. The mandate of the President does not change, and the people are basically fooled. Today's debate, which is between Parliament and the Government, is between the President and the Government, and Parliament is getting out of the game. And the third is that, in fact, we are no longer looking for a joint section, but we are choosing only one political party as the final President of one of the political parties. In short, we would change, essentially, even if not practically, a great many of the principles that apply so far, how Estonia works and how we carry out these democratic processes. These are the shortcomings of the draft, that is why there is no Socialist signature on this draft. I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U158	Mr. Kaljulaid, would you like a reclining? Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U159	Thank you. Since previous speakers have already mentioned my name twice, I [I would say that] I joined the initiators of this draft because I really consider the debate that is in this Chamber today and this principle very important. Now, when it comes to whether the people of Estonia understand or do not understand what they choose. We currently have local elections, the Riigikogu and the European Parliament. Estonian people generally understand very well what are national, what are local and what are European policy issues. Those who do not always know the difference are politicians who, in my opinion, tend to confuse elections. I believe that if we go on the path of legitimising the direct election of the President, the Estonian people will certainly understand the powers of the President they choose when the elections take place. If there is anything to worry about, perhaps it is because of whether the President so elected will understand what his constitutional powers are in the future. But it is not, in my opinion, a question of legalism, but a question of political culture and ethics.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U160	On behalf of the Reform Party Group, Toomas Kivimägi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U161	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I congratulate the initiators of the draft for launching such a cross-party debate, and what to deny there is also a very popular debate. Therefore, it is probably not very surprising that we are doing this here for the twelfth or thirteenth time in the last time. However, there is nothing new here; we are still in exactly the same position and exactly the same constitution. I rely on Estonia as a parliamentary republic. This was the starting point from which the constitution began to be drafted 30 years ago. This is the starting point, according to which the balance of powers was actually created, according to which powers were allocated to Parliament, the government, the Head of State, the courts and so on. Now, if you ask me if this balance is perfect, I think 30 years have more of it confirmed, and you could say yes. And if there are any such non-balances in this balance, these positions are perhaps rather that the executive power in the parliamentary republic pre-empts de facto over the legislator. Rather, this is the problem, not the competence and authority of the President of the Republic. So because I believe that this same beloved constitution has served us very well for 30 years, I think it would be quite a risk to take and try to change this balance in one way or another. All the more so as there is no real need and justification for this. The second argument is that representative democracy dominates direct democracy in the Republic of Estonia. These forms of direct democracy, or higher authority, are the people who exercise higher power through the rightful people, and there are two ways of doing this: these are Riigikogu elections, here the people have been very busy, and they have done this task very nicely, and the second form and five are referendums. But, as we all know, this second opportunity has been used very little to this day. So, in fact, this is still one of the opportunities on the table today, through which the people can exercise their higher powers, rather than giving the people the right to elect a president. It is also very important that the comments made by the same constitution contain a very clear statement that the powers of the Head of State are generally taken into account when choosing the way in which the Head of State is elected. That's the main objection I've been talking about. Indeed, in providing for the direct election of the President in a parliamentary state, it must be taken into account that in this way the President will have a strong mandate, the extent of which is limited to the public's expectations. That was a lot of talk in the Commission, and also yesterday in this Chamber. Indeed, the initiators of the draft, both from the Centre Party and from the EKRE, stated that they did not really mean to extend the President's power by presenting this draft. However, in the debate they have not ruled out that perhaps in the future, after this draft has received Parliament's support, an increase in the President's powers could still be discussed. I think it's kind of a double-edged sword on the one hand, it's a little weird that we're going to do this bill and then maybe we're going to extend the powers of the President of the Republic. In my opinion, if this is to be done, it should be done together. And in that case, to do so together for the reason that there is no contradiction to which I referred, reading out the constitutional comment that the fundamental problem is that, if you choose the President of the Republic directly, he will have a very strong mandate, and if you take the competences he has according to the Constitution, there will be a rather strong contradiction, which I believe may actually compromise this balance. Now, second of all, if you ask if... I'd like more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U162	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U163	... the existing procedure for electing the President of the Republic has served us well or not, when you look at the final result, I think everyone agrees that it has actually served us very well. We've gotten ourselves very different, but actually in our own time, I think, some of the best choices for the presidency. That's exactly what I'm stressing in my own time. I therefore believe that there is no reason to be too critical in view of this end result. However, if we look at it before and during the presidential elections, there are, of course, a number of critical remarks, different perceptions, which is why I do not want to say that we should perpetuate the procedure for electing this existing President of the Republic, but that is also one of the reasons why we are fully supporting the debate on this draft, so we are open to debate on how to proceed with it. Indeed, as an important advantage, I would like to emphasise the same thing that was just mentioned by the previous speaker, Lauri Läänemets, which is one very strong advantage in the procedure for electing today's President, especially in view of the last elections, namely when Alar Karis was elected in the Riigikogu. The President of the Republic has a much wider political base than the President of the Republic's direct election. This is also acknowledged by the initiators of the draft that yes, it is likely that, if the President of the Republic is directly elected, the future President would still rather be a candidate for one party or another. Of course, he eventually needs the support of most people, but he still belongs to one party or another. And now that we are talking about the role of the President as a balancer, there is obviously a very strong problem and contradiction here when he is one party. But let us take this final example once again: Alar Karis needed a total of five of us in Parliament, four political parties to be elected. This is a much wider political weight than it is, we are talking about the President's direct election, where he is rather a candidate for one party or another. Speaking of possible changes, as I said, we do not need to praise this existing regime for the election of the President of the Republic. In view of the final result, there is a reason to praise, but the procedure can be improved and this has also been repeatedly pointed out by my colleague, Urmas Reinsalu, for example. For example, one, and it is relatively easy to do that the closing point for the President of the Republic elections should still be the electoral body. The Constitution gives the Prerogative three choices to the Riigikogu. If he is unable to do so, the President of the Republic should in any case be elected by the electoral body. It's not at all some kind of complex geometry or gymnastics how to do it. There's a pretty simple solution. We take § 79 of the Constitution, which says that the electoral body will elect the President of the Republic by a majority of the members of the electoral body who have taken part in the vote. Now, the question is who should be considered a voter. There is one suggestion on the table that does not necessarily have to read everyone who has placed the note in the ballot box, but it is conceivable to consider only the person who has expressed his preference for the election, or to base himself on the number of valid notes and to disregard blank and corrupt notes. This is not the first thing to do in Estonia. Similar logic is used in the calculation of the simple quota in the Riigikogu elections, so there is actually a de facto concrete example. My main concern was whether it requires a change in the Constitution or not, because it is actually more interpretable, that it does not necessarily have to be done through a change in the Constitution, regardless of the sentence that is written in the same way in the Constitution. Once again, the Reform Party is open to debate on changes to the procedure for electing the President of the Republic, and I therefore once again congratulate the initiators, the representatives of Jaanus Karilaud and EKRE, and all of the central groups that have initiated this draft. After all, the President of the Republic's attention has also happened to this. So we are, in any case, open to debate, but we certainly do not give up our principles very lightly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U164	Mr. Raidma, did you accidentally get a finger? I can tell from the nod that it did. On behalf of the Isamaa Group, Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U165	Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U166	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U167	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, A lot of different ideas have been expressed, and I suppose all of these thoughts have been correct and necessary. The previous speaker here congratulated the initiators of the draft for raising this debate again. I, too, congratulate and can assure you that the Isamaa Group is also open to discussions concerning the presidential elections. However, I do not think that it is currently borne out of a genuine and positive desire to reach some sort of end result, but rather is enjoying this process and is expected to benefit politically from it. When I think that the initiators made a short phone call with me, but some sort of substantive attempt that, cross-party or involving all political parties and political groups, and that is the only way to achieve some sort of final result on this issue, to try to achieve a shared part and then come up with this initiative, there has been nothing like this. Just before the local elections, this bill was handed over so that there would also be a signal to the voters that we would like to discuss this issue. And now we are here and we are already discussing, I do not know, for the 12th or 13th time, the draft, knowing that politicians and political parties have very different positions. So I am not convinced at all of this sincere desire to reach the end result, but rather it is indeed a desire to enjoy this process. Now, as far as direct elections are concerned, it has been idealized here at times, and at least one thing I would like to refute here, which has been said earlier by several speakers, and also on questions, that if the people choose the President, it will unite, it will be the common President of the people. Let's think about it! In America, did Biden unite the Republicans and Democrats? Excuse me, did Trump unite the Republicans and Democrats? Did he hook you up? Did he still unite the community?! Did Biden unite the Republicans and Democrats and [they] are united behind the people? [[The cavalry.]] It's not another matter. I am currently rejecting, as far as [the claim] is concerned, that the directly elected President himself unites the entire nation. Already, this process may not be like this. So let's not idealize those processes that may not actually be like that. In the case of Estonia, the main problem today is certainly not whether the President is directly elected or not. We have a constitution where there is quite an optimal balance between executive power and legislative power and the President. Rather, the problem is how this balance, which is between the executive and Parliament, will remain true, as the Constitution has meant. This has gradually shifted in favour of the executive power over the decades, and Parliament has remained in the background. In my opinion, this is a much more important issue concerning Estonian society, so that the representatives of the people who receive a mandate on a regular basis every four years will fulfil the role that the Constitution has given them. But, unfortunately, we see that over the years, Parliament itself has eroded itself and has increasingly given power to the executive power. The executive, in turn, has delegated power to the authorities, and then we are talking about having a state of officials. And actually, over the years, the state of officials has become more and more established. So we could seriously think about this in this Parliament about how to increase Parliament's role. This is already brought to the attention of various experts and institutions. The Supreme Court and the Chancellor of Justice are already pointing the finger at the parliament that you have given too much power. Either that or we'll take the coronathematics solution right here. A number of issues should be resolved at parliamentary level, not at executive level. We are dealing with this first and foremost! Now, would the President's election law need to be amended? Yeah, I need a change. It would need to be changed if we could reach some kind of common ground so that we could agree and change. Very much has been said about the size of the electoral body, and the principles of assembly have also changed since the administrative reform compared to what it was initially when the law was passed and when the constitution was adopted. The situation has changed considerably today. The President's appointment, the set-up and the process would need to be changed if we can agree. I come back to what concerns the restoration of the size of the electoral body. In the previous coalition, all three parties agreed. But when it went to the debate on how it should be divided specifically between local authorities, all the common parts were lost. In the same way, or even in my opinion, this process should still be such that the President is not elected in silence. The presidential candidate could have the opportunity to give a speech before Parliament or before the electoral body. Right now, we're picking a grave in silence, we're carrying out this procedure, and the candidate has no chance of expressing his or her thoughts in front of the picking body. Yes, we can read it somewhere in the media and hear it from some other meetings [hearing], but since we know that this appointment time may also be extremely short, it makes sense that at least the candidate who comes before Parliament or the electoral body has the opportunity to present his or her views publicly. It should not be just as it was during the last elections. I'm not saying it was bad. They met separately with different political parties, different political groups, and some then performed one show for the people online, and then made this re-show separately behind closed doors. [It should be so] that such a need disappears and that both the public and the selective body can see directly and openly what the elected presidential candidates say. I think that would be appropriate. My proposal is: we focus on the substantive problems and topics of the Estonian state. Let us not only address issues that could bring political benefits, populist benefits, and we will deal with them just before the elections, in this cycle. We know that in this short time, Parliament will not be able to agree on a new presidential election procedure anyway. Let's not just enjoy the process, but focus more on the end result! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U168	Okay. All the political groups have taken advantage of this opportunity in their negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee on this draft is to conclude the first reading of the draft. You can't see the opposite. So we have finished our first reading, and I will set the deadline for tabling amendments, which has now changed, please pay attention. December 22nd at 5.15 p.m. And one more distraction. In particular, our rules of procedure and rules of procedure provide that amendments to this draft can only be tabled in at least one fifth of the Riigikogu membership, i.e. if an amendment is to be tabled, 21 members of the Riigikogu must sign it. We have exhausted this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U169	We will move on to today's second item, the draft law amending the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure, Traffic Act and Tax Administration Act 457 initiated by the Government of the Republic. We have a third reading. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Centre Party Group, Marek Jürgenson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U170	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! By adopting the Act amending the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure, the Traffic Act and the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, we are taking a big step towards even safer Estonia. Local authorities will be given the opportunity to install automatic traffic surveillance systems on their administrative territory. The local authority which has installed the equipment will receive 50% of the fines for the infringements detected in its own budget, which can be used in future to ensure road safety. Such a solution will provide an opportunity to better defend the security of our region. Community involvement is increasing, among other things, as local residents have the opportunity to raise problems and make proposals, and local authorities have a real opportunity to realise them. It is important to mention that this is not a bill that imposes yet another obligation on local authorities, but gives more opportunities and incentives to deal with road safety issues. I think there are people in this hall who could immediately propose a place in their own home or on their way home where such a traffic surveillance system could be installed. A place like Paldiski road in Tallinn hits my head personally. When I worked as an elder in Haaberst district, we worked hard with both the police and the Tallinn authorities to lower the limit speed from 70 to 50 there. And why? Because unfortunately, the traffic culture in Estonia is such that where it is allowed to drive 50, it is usually 60, where [is allowed] 70, there are already 80. On the way to the zoo, the big shopping centre, the Õismäe, the Rocca al Mare school, Kakumäe, where thousands of people, hundreds of young people and children go, such behaviour should not be allowed where traffic rules are constantly violated. Today, the Paldiski highway has a speed limit of 50 kilometres per hour, but still many drivers are capable of ruining it. Police raids in problem areas will certainly help to improve the situation, but the whole area would be much safer if a stationary camera had been installed. The fact that local authorities can contribute more to road safety is not the only good news in my opinion. Installing fixed cameras gives the police the opportunity to deal with more difficult cases where the machine cannot handle or the machine cannot replace the person. We're constantly debating that we don't have enough cops. However, the increased introduction of automatic traffic monitoring systems should reduce the time used to monitor compliance with speed limits and the [compliance] of traffic lights. Police officers will be able to pay more attention to general law enforcement, prevention and offences that cannot be fixed by automatic traffic surveillance. Once again, as a result of the introduction of automatic traffic surveillance systems, the police have more time to deal with public order and other traffic offences. Finally, I would also like to mention some statistics. Between 2016 and 2020 59% of all road accidents involving human sufferers occurred on the roads or streets of local governments. On average, the number of fatalities in these traffic accidents accounted for 29% of all road fatalities. These figures show in black and white that prevention needs to be addressed, and on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, I am very pleased that we are taking such a big step towards a safer Estonia. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask all of you to support this good draft. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U171	I don't see any more calls, I'm closing the negotiations. This bill goes to the final vote and requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, also those who have just come! Draft 457 of the Act amending the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure, the Traffic Act and the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic requires a majority of votes in its composition for adoption. I will put draft 457 to the vote before you. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U172	The bill supports 59 members of the Riigikogu, against 27. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U173	Our third item on the agenda today is the draft law amending the Family Law initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in connection with it, the amendment of other laws 474. I'm opening negotiations. Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, on behalf of the Centre Party Group, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U174	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the family law and other laws has stimulated much passion not only between political parties, but also within the Central Party Group. We discussed this draft in detail several times, trying to find common ground and assess the consequences for society and families. Of course, the arrangements for subsistence allowance and its assignment are a sensitive and emotionally charged subject, but in the interests of children and divorced parents, we should leave emotions aside and focus on how to better protect the interests of all children, be they from the first, second or third life together, and enable parents to support and support all their children equally. The current principle of minimum basic allowance, where maintenance depends on the minimum wage, is in no way related to the needs of the child. I would remind you that in 2021 the minimum subsistence rate will be EUR 292. It is not fair for parents to continue with a situation where the minimum living population continues to rise as a result of the increase in the minimum wage. All the more so as the minimum wage rate is not linked to the actual cost to the child. Moreover, parents are increasingly in a situation where they have not even been able to pay the minimum subsistence allowance, or when children are born in a new family, very large inequalities have arisen, with significantly less money left to support them. There are also more and more parents who appeal to the court for a reduction in the current livelihood, as the payment of maintenance has become too much for them or causes a very large difference between children. It is not fair that children in one family are materially better off than others. This draft is based on a study completed at the end of February 2020 on a child's need-based minimum livelihood. Researchers, parents, child protection specialists and various experts were involved in the study.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U175	I apologize for a moment, good Maria! Can you turn down some microphones?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U176	Is that better?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U177	It's much better that way. Yeah! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U178	According to the draft, the base life would consist of five different components, which, due to the lack of time, will not be discussed further. I would only stop on two components that determine the amount of the allowance. According to the study, the basic amount of maintenance due to the minimum needs of the child was EUR 362 per month on average. Since parents must participate in the child's upbringing in solidarity, half of this amount falls to one and half of the other parents, i.e. the basic amount of maintenance would be EUR 181 based on the survey. The basic amount proposed by the Ministry is EUR 200 in the draft, as the standard of living and the cost of living have increased in the meantime. According to the draft, this base amount has to be indexed each year on 1 April to the consumer price index of the previous year in order to take account of the increase in the cost of living. This is supplemented by 3% of the average gross wage. Thus, in principle, the basic amount of the maintenance is EUR 250. When calculating the minimum subsistence allowance, account shall also be taken of family allowances, the child's shared place of residence, and the number of children receiving maintenance in the same family. The proposed solution is the basis for both mutual agreements, conciliation agreements and judicial decisions. I would like to stress here that we are talking about a minimal living that must be guaranteed for every child. At the same time, the amount may be higher, even if it is a child with special needs. I am pointing out here one of the bottlenecks that may result from the transition to a new system. According to the Bill, maintenance defined in the judgment as a minimum subsistence or as half of the minimum wage is frozen at the current level, i.e. EUR 292. This means, however, that more than 30,000 obliged parents still have to pay a living allowance that goes beyond some of them and does not rely on the child's real needs and still leads to a situation where children in one family can be materially better off than others. The draft provides that parents may renegotiate the matter or apply to the courts. The amendment I tabled, which was essentially supported by the Commission, pointed out that the obligation for the parent to turn to court to change the size of the maintenance and to request a new size of the maintenance based on a change in the legal situation. This will ensure equal treatment for all children and parents. It has to be recognised that the main beneficiaries of the allowance are women whose socio-economic situation is more vulnerable for certain reasons. We still need to work hard to reduce the gender pay gap and create conditions in society and the labour market so that women, especially women with young children, are better protected. Thank you for your attention and please support the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U179	On behalf of the Reform Party Group, Mr Toomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the family law and related amendments to other laws, i.e. the draft law on maintenance, has been prepared for four years. During this period, a number of round tables and discussions have been organised involving all interested parties. The text of the draft act is the best possible compromise between the different interests of these parties. The purpose of the draft is to create a flexible procedure for determining minimum livelihoods for a minor child, which corresponds to the standard of living in Estonia. The bill sets a minimum amount, less of which a parent living separately from their children must not pay a child's child's livelihood. The court can reduce this minimum, but only if the parent is unable to work or if his other children are left unsupported. For example, a small wage is not a good reason to reduce according to the bill. To the extent of minimum subsistence, a parent requiring a child's child's maintenance need not prove the cost of the child. The maximum amount of maintenance shall not be fixed. In excess of the minimum subsistence amount, parents can always agree or can be cleared by the court. For example, when a child's needs are greater, he goes to many groups of interests, private schools, health problems, or something like that. It is also possible to understand a greater livelihood if the parent's income required to pay is higher than the average, as the parents also contribute to the family's livelihood by living with the child. The draft does not alter the judgments and agreements already taken. If the amount of maintenance in the court settlement relates to the minimum wage or the current minimum subsistence, this amount shall remain the same at the level of 2021. If the new law does not come, perhaps today, we will not adopt the law, then next year the amount of minimum subsistence per child would already be EUR 327, EUR 654 for two children, EUR 981 per month for three children, etc. This should be paid by all parents living separately from their children throughout Estonia, regardless of the size of their income. How many people are really able to do that? Of course, the child needs adequate maintenance. The system put in place by the bill will ensure that the child is adequately supported. It is not in the interests of the child that parents who fight each other for maintenance money or that their parents are bankrupt or disappearing from their lives because of their overmuch livelihoods. It was clear that this could happen four years ago, and that is why the draft was prepared. Certainly, the reasons for the break-up vary greatly, the situations are extremely different, but the law must create a framework on which to base as general principles. These general principles are: based on children's needs, parents' incomes, actual expenditure, etc. And these general principles will be better established by the new law. I continue to believe that children are born out of love, and both parents want the best for their children. And in this spirit, child maintenance, meeting arrangements, etc., will be agreed when parents can no longer live under one roof. The Reform Party Group is asking you, ladies and gentlemen, to support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U181	On behalf of the Isamaa Group, Tarmo Kruusimäe. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U182	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good coworkers here and on the other side of the colored bickering screen! Just as the series of songs says that the land must be filled with children and grandchildren, all the topics related to children are extremely important to the Isamaa Party. All this premeditation created by this bill is also a good ideal. However, the Isamaa Group is of the opinion that these issues, which generate many different opinions in society, and I do not know, maybe later also tension, they should be negotiated and not, say, on our little debates in committees somewhere, but still in the Estonian public, in the public information space. This is one of those joke stories that a member of the Riigikogu sees a minister in the Riigikogu and asks that, good minister, tell us how this new draft is. The minister says you do, I'll explain. "No, I can explain, too. What about the bill? "Maybe when it is clear to all of us that this is a good bill, we do not really make these laws for ourselves, we do these laws for the people of Estonia. Then we could just accept some sensitive drafts in this big hall once our society has figured out what we're doing and why we're doing it. And now again from this engagement. When the draft was launched three years ago, there was also a small round of involvement. It is not, however, what has now been adopted by the fast-track method or the fast-track procedure, the two readings of this week, because we know that we have the most important thing, that we can still link this law to the state budget. What's the reason for this rush? I think the reason for this haste is precisely because there has been no agreement with the parties, someone still feels that injustice has been organised on his account. And after that, we're starting to have these disputes. So, a good initiative that came out of the ministry three years ago, we have now finally formed here, struggling, quickly making it so that we may be discussing it sometime later. But, well, the general situation is that we still have other drafts today, and they won't remember who did what anyway. I would not like to give Estonian parents, Estonian children such a Christmas gift, where we have forgotten halfway through the process of involving it, that the draft itself is more important than inclusion. Well, let's get our people involved! But there is nothing to be done; the Group of the Fatherland will not give its support to this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U183	On behalf of the Socialists, Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U184	Thank you, Mr President, for giving the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, this draft does not provide enough assurance that it will fulfil the objective that the draft family law should pursue, especially when we speak in the context of a livelihood, that is to say, it should protect the interests of the children first and foremost. Every next step in family law should better protect children's interests. Unfortunately, the Social Democrats have serious doubts about this, if you allow us to speak softly, and so there is no way to support the adoption of this draft. We understand, of course, the need to define a minimum for a more flexible livelihood. In particular, if, for example, the parent is unable to work, or if this minimum subsistence rate is used, other children could suffer significantly. But this bill, unfortunately, creates a series of new injustices and uncertainty. This injustice begins with the threshold of EUR 292 for children whose agreement has been concluded with or without the assistance of a court this year. Given the increase in next year's minimum wage, it would be EUR 325. But now this threshold is brought up to EUR 100 above the threshold, as the minimum is 200, but it is increased by EUR 43 as a result of the calculation of the average wage. But it could also be the minimum wage, it's twice the addition, and this difference is significant. The Social Democrats have proposed an amendment on this subject so that this number does not fall at least significantly, because, due to the decoupling from the minimum wage, this growth will be much slower in the future, but unfortunately the Commission did not support this amendment even as much as it would have reached the large hall. Unfortunately, this creates injustice, so this change is not fair; it is not in the interests of children. We spoke here yesterday or the day before yesterday at second reading of this draft about the so-called'scale effect' that has been included in the draft law. How biased this bill has been in some nuances or how there has been no sense of what really means to raise children on a daily basis shows that at first, the scale effect had been written in as much as 30%. We were talking yesterday about how we take into account this scale effect when it comes to children of different genders, for example. These needs may be different as to why it does not simply give one skirt to other legs, also for other reasons, not only the gender aspect, but even this has not been taken into account. Where's the 15% scale effect coming from? I don't see any calculations on which it's based, it's just a number taken from the ceiling. This is also evident from correspondence with those who pointed out that this 30% is a lot. Then they said, well, let's say 15. Let's say 15! And that is what we say to thousands of Estonian children. Let's say 15! Another topic to which attention has also been drawn is the Round Table of Estonian Women's Associations and the Association of Estonian Women's Shadows. I think you could listen to them because these people really know what they're talking about. They talk about border situations, or situations where parents cannot agree with each other, and about how it gets complicated. This, by the way, is also the subject of the Child Welfare Association. If we start to reduce the size of this paid-out livelihood according to the father's sometimes babysitting, for example. If it's traditionally gone like this, it's a mother who's been sentenced to a living... I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U185	Yes, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U186	... and then while keeping the children half the time of the father, then reducing this number by half. Can you actually imagine that the cost of a child is actually halved? It's not. The child continues to attend a hobby education. The baby keeps going to kindergarten. And in the meantime, it will not be paid by another parent if the agreement is concluded without the fact that it is separately entered in it. Not to mention the cost of keeping this home, which is the child's basic place of residence. These nuances have not been taken into account. And that is why it would be very worth listening to what the Women's Association has said again that this calculator, or this basis of calculation, is one-sided, does not take into account the differences. There are better examples in the world, you don't have to invent a bicycle yourself. For some reason, we're gonna go with an axe and then we're gonna start gossiping about these consequences in the court cases and in the process of framing the case law. This creates a great deal of uncertainty and injustice. The future of people of such a fragile age should not be regulated so rawly from the level of the legislator. That is why neither I nor the Social Democrats can support this amendment. We also call on all those who have not yet taken this bill into consideration, but who may have listened to what I have said here and what some colleagues have said in the past, to vote against this bill and not to rush so quickly with fundamental changes. At least it could have taken time for the Riigikogu to have been a good time between second and third readings to process these things for a moment. Not to mention that it all comes into effect between Christmas and Hops! - One. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, The whole case law must be new. The courts have recognised that they are not really prepared for these fundamental changes. Not to mention that there is doubt as to whether all the changes to the register that need to be made and the IT developments will actually be completed. Please don't make that mistake! There will be a great deal of uncertainty and injustice for the future. So I ask: we reject this bill. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U187	There are no more requests, I will close the negotiations and we will prepare the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that draft 474 requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu for adoption. I am voting on the draft law amending the family law initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the amendment of other laws in this regard 474. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U188	71 members of the Riigikogu supported the draft, 5 against. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U189	Our fourth item today is the third reading of the Bill 368 on Amendment to the Copyright Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote. I'm opening negotiations. You don't see that wish. Ladies and gentlemen, can we go straight to the final vote because we have just had a vote? There's no opposition. I am voting on the draft law amending the Copyright Act initiated by the Government of the Republic (transposition of directives on copyright) 368. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U190	With the result of 81, the opponents and abstentions have not been passed as a bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U191	The fifth item today is the draft law amending the Environmental Monitoring Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 440. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the EKRE Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U192	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, We have a lot of problems, serious problems. But many of the drafts we're dealing with here are dealing with relatively small things. This is a law amending the Environmental Monitoring Act, which costs just over EUR 100000 a year. Now we're discussing it, we've been working on it. 140,000 last year, that means the Environment Agency. Someone wants to order a viper. This isn't the rose that comes up somewhere on the body, but ports and energy and construction companies and the media, too. Here are special weather forecasts, pay-per-view synoptic information phones and things of this kind. It is set out here how much KAUR can provide these services and at what prices. I would like to remind you, for example, that a paid syncoptic helpline: one minute can be charged between 1.1 and 2.2 euros. But if you want to...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U193	I'm sorry for a second. [[It's ringing the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please listen!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U194	Have a nice bell ringing here on the Christmas moon. Thank you. Or you'd like to order a viper. How's that gust of wind around here? You can get the cheapest kite with 24 euros, the most expensive 44 euros. So this kind of nice little law is made so the Environment Agency can make some more. But looking at the big picture where tens of millions need to be spent in order to make people's lives more normal even in the current emergency electricity market, or what the government has not wanted to do, the 20 million (i.e. the state budget will soon have to be allocated to higher education institutions, so that education in Estonian can be maintained in the current emergency electricity market, it is already a little more difficult to find this money. But, of course, who can oppose the formation of a gust of wind or against paid meteorology! I would remind you that last year there were 61 customers and 267 orders, and the price of each order was, if taken on average, about 2,000 euros. So what we can do about it, and we're in favour of it, and I think you're in favour of it, too, such a beautiful little Christmas present for the Environment Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U195	No more words, I'll close the negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote before you on the draft law amending the Act on Environmental Monitoring initiated by the Government of the Republic 440. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U196	With the result of 86, the opponents and abstentions have not been adopted as a draft law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U197	Our sixth item on the agenda is the third reading of the draft law 442 on the amendment of competition law initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. I'm opening negotiations. Urmas Reinsalu, please, on behalf of the Isamaa Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U198	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U199	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U200	Thank you. The Isamaa Group supports this draft law relating to ensuring free competition. The question raised here is whether the draft decision on the reform of the electricity market, initiated today, complies with the principles of Estonian competition law and, most importantly, with the provisions of European competition law. I can assure this high House with absolute certainty that the draft decision on the reform of the electricity market initiated by the Fatherland to protect consumers is fully in line with this. We must implement this reform without delay. The price shock that has hit Estonian consumers requires a rapid response. Our principle provides, firstly, that the provision of electricity to small consumers is defined as a universal service. Secondly, that a dominant electricity producer in the Nord Pool region in Estonia must, as a universal service, provide a package for small-scale electricity consumers, both private companies and all domestic consumers. This means more freedom of choice. More freedom of choice in the sense that those consumers, small consumers who wish to be on the stock exchange package in the stock exchange system, may remain on the stock market, but those who wish to use the universal service package can take this package. In addition, in order to protect the foreseeable price of electricity, it is important that the package offered by the electricity producer under the universal service obligation is subject to the competition authority's principle of price coordination. It must include actual costs as well as a reasonable rate of return on capital. However, we also have a proposal that, in the case of packages established on the basis of universal service, the State would make a payment to small consumers in the form of a public budget allocation in order to make sure that the amounts of CO2 quotas are reimbursed to small consumers. In short, this means that, firstly, Estonia will continue to participate in the Nord Pool Stock Exchange, but this means that all small consumers with an estimated market share of two thirds of the Estonian electricity consumption market in around 5 terawatts would have the possibility to receive electricity with a clearly predictable, relatively predictable price horizon, which is less than EUR 50 per megawatt. It's a foolproof solution. This is a quick solution and must be implemented without delay. Once again, I stress that this is in line with the principles of European competition law, which is in line with the Energy Directive of the European Union. This is the same principle that Lithuania, which is a Member State of the Nord Pool, uses today for two thirds of small consumers to provide universal service to small consumers of electricity, and is used by France, for example, from other Member States of the European Union. We call for support for this draft, which is currently under discussion, but we call on the legislator to make a decision as soon as possible so that we can implement a decision in Estonia this year, which means reforming the electricity market to protect consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U201	Mart Helme, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U202	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I'm gonna put my glasses on, and then I'm gonna see all our beautiful, presentable delegates. But actually, in my mind, I see a very historical and magnificent piece of art, namely Pieter Bruegel's engraving "The Big Fish Eat Small Fish." A wonderful piece of art that I have always been deeply impressed with, and which I bring into this context right now, in that we do not actually have competition. We have directives from the European Commission that impose on us an abusive framework within which competition is limited, that competition is limited to certain requirements, certain conditions. This applies not only to the area spoken by the previous speaker, it is the electricity market, but it actually applies to all areas. And whose interests are these directives? After all, these directives have been made for the benefit of all kinds of multinationals and multinationals in Europe. Maybe big fish eat small fish. You know, as a historian, I'm an antique-interested, probably an occupational disease, and as an antique-interested person, I occasionally watch an old-fashioned show on TV on History Channel and on some other channel. And you know what a depressing picture is going to be on these shows. Not because Europe or America has few artistic and technological achievements that deserve to be collected, preserved and preserved, but it is frustrating that these collectors pass by bankrupt companies, along closed churches, along small towns, where life has gone, where there have been decades and sometimes generations of working companies, small family companies, all of which have ceased their activities because large fish eat small fish. We see how the same process has reached us in Estonia. I am fondly reminded of the 90th years when, right here in the Old Town of Tallinn, going down the hill, 100 to 200 meters, life pulsed. And what's in here now? Closed. Everything is closed, and there is no reason at all for this unfortunate corona. I'd like to say right now with the English expression, okay, look on the Internet for what it means, FUBAR, the star combination FUBAR. See what this means in English, and then you will understand what has happened to us here in the Old Town and in Estonia as a whole, where we have villages, small settlements are dying out, as if the war had gone over, as if the deportation had gone over. Why? Because we really don't have any competition. We have more and more directives, we have more and more restrictions, we have more and more demands from the Health Board and other demands, and it will kill the life out. There's no point in shaking your head in there with reproach. There's no point in blaming me for anything. There is nothing to blame for me, there is nothing to blame for our party, because I personally have contributed to a very large extent to ensure that life continues in the Republic of Estonia. But he won't. In many places there is not enough, and this is a set of processes, but one of these processes is that we no longer have free market economic competition at national level. Instead of this briefing today, the Minister of Economic Affairs is offering us all a hat... Can I have an extension, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U203	You mean extra time? Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U204	... offers us to go, hat in hand, beg at the door of the local government. This is the destruction of the middle class, as Indrek Neivelt says, and this is a humiliation of all our national pride. For this not to happen, healthy competition is needed and therefore, because this draft does not guarantee it, our group is not among the supporters of this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U205	On behalf of the Reform Party Group, Annely Akkermann, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U206	Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Reform Party, I would like to take this opportunity, and as the leading judge of this draft in the Committee on Economic Affairs, to remind you that the essence of this draft is quite something else than the previous speakers were trying to speak here. This draft will further finance the Competition Authority in order to be stronger in monitoring the price of network customers, firstly. Secondly, this draft reduces the burden on local authorities concerning the regulation of water prices. And thirdly, we asked for an opinion on this draft from, among other things, the Owners' Association and the Association of Housing Associations. They did not have any objections to this draft, and I think they would rather support it, because with this draft the Competition Authority will have more power to curb the price increase of monopolies or monopoly companies. That is the content of this draft. I ask that you support this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U207	Okay. I don't see any more words, I'm closing the negotiations. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote on this draft. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put a vote before you on the draft law on the amendment of the competition law initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in this connection, on the amendment of other laws 442. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U208	With a result of 68 votes in favour, 16 against and 0 abstentions, the draft has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U209	Our seventh item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on Health and Safety at Work and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic and amending the Act on Employment Contracts and related amendments to other laws. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Siret Eagle Centre Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U210	Good chairman of the sitting! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Our common goal is to overcome the COVID-19 crisis so that the normal life can continue. It is vital that people are prepared to stay at home and not to be sick in their work environment when they experience symptoms. Tanel Kiik, Minister of the Centre Party, proposed a measure that would encourage this. In particular, compensation for sick days so that the first day of illness would be borne by the employee would be paid by the employer for the next four days and then by the sickness fund. Today we have before us a draft law which would extend this temporary sickness benefit system until the end of 2022 and thus again reduce the employees' liability for compensation of sick days to one day instead of three days, and the employer will pay for the next four days instead of the previous five days. This is a very good draft, and it allows people to stay at home even if they have the first symptoms, without therefore losing significantly in their incomes. The Estonian Trade Union Confederation and the Estonian Employers' Confederation have proposed that an impact analysis of the temporary system of sickness days should also be carried out after the end of 2022, and in the event of a positive outcome, the Riigikogu should consider whether the temporary system that we have today could be made permanent. The Centre Party supports this idea. We'll go ahead and press the green button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U211	On behalf of the Socialists, Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U212	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll pick up where Siret Eagle left off nicely. It is really very nice to have an analysis planned at the end of next year to see how two and a half years of the most generous reimbursement of sick days has worked. I am even more pleased to recall that almost one and a half years ago, the Social Democrats proposed an amendment to the first draft reimbursement of sick days, recommending that a more generous reimbursement procedure for sick days be put in place immediately for at least two years, with the condition of two years after two years, when two, in particular, the winter period in which the infection spreads, has been completed, an impact analysis to see if it is working and if the measure really needs to be made permanent. At the time, the amendment was not supported, but it is very nice that the government coalition, now after several viral waves, has reached the same conclusion that an impact analysis and consideration of the permanent nature of the temporary measure would be reasonable. But in addition, the generous reimbursement of sick days works. This has been confirmed by the Minister of Health and Labour, the Minister of Finance, perhaps also the Prime Minister, from this very remote area. Trade unions also support and support the permanentisation of the scheme. Employers are willing to consider making it permanent. So it is incomprehensible that, in fact, for a year and a half, we have been discussing more generous compensation for sick days, and that is now the third time that we decide to extend this scheme. This is indeed a confirmation of this saying in the national language that the most lasting are temporary solutions. However, when we are talking about crisis measures, about the need to control the spread of infection, so that we need to keep people at home with the first symptoms, the solution that is currently in the draft is not enough. The Social Democrats proposed an amendment to compensate the corona-positive and close contacts for the first day of sickness and 100% pay. Why? Because all these restrictions, prohibitions, and commands work in one direction. But in order to motivate everyone to stay home, the carrot has had very little to do with the current crisis. That would be the question where it would undoubtedly be needed. Especially when we look at the distribution of revenue and at the positions that people in employment are at greater risk of infection. It is clear that positions where teleworking is not possible, where pay is low, where collectives are often large and these are service companies, commercial companies, and also manufacturing companies. Avoiding monsters there is important for all of us, and in order to avoid monsters there, it is necessary that these people stay home with the first signs of disease. This can only be done if it does not put their livelihood under pressure. When we talked a year ago about putting the deal under attack, maybe it seemed kind of theoretical, but given what is happening to us with overall inflation and, more specifically, energy prices, it is undoubtedly unfair and perhaps a little bit of self-deception to hope that people earning a minimum wage with a mild cold and a rough throat will stay at home in order to limit the spread of infection in all our interests. It's not realistic. We need instruments to actually enable these people to stay home in our interests. A more generous reimbursement of sick days serves this purpose, is proportionate and is correct. This type of amendment has already been repeatedly defended and tabled by the Social Democrats in this Chamber, but it turns out that we must continue in the same direction. It is a pity that our amendments were not supported, but we will come back with these very good thoughts next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U213	There are no more calls, I will close the negotiations and we will begin the preparation of the final vote on the draft. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on draft law amending the Law on Health and Safety at Work and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic and amending the Act on Employment Contracts and related amendments to other laws 456. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U214	The bill is supported by 88 members of the Riigikogu and there are no opposing and impartial members. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U215	Our eighth item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. No requests, I'll close the negotiations. Can we go to the final vote? There's no opposition. I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic 458. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U216	The draft is supported by 86 members of the Riigikogu, one against and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U217	The ninth item is the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 467. I'm opening negotiations. Heljo Pikhof, please, on behalf of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U218	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U219	I'm sorry for a second. [[It's ringing the bell.]] Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U220	Today is the third reading of this bill and it is quite appropriate here to remember a few years ago, to go back a little bit in history. In 2017, the Social Democrats in the government fulfilled their promise before the voters. On 1 July, the dental care allowance for adults in a renewed form came into force under the leadership of the Social Democrats. As of 1 July 2017, all adults with health insurance began to receive compensation at a limit of EUR 30 per year and EUR 40 per share from 1 January 2018 and a 50% share in the marginal price. At the same time, the dental allowance for pensioners, people with special needs, pregnant and mothers with small children increased from EUR 19 to EUR 85 and their own contribution is 15% of the marginal cost of the service. This is a non-cash benefit, which means that the patient does not receive the money, but it moves directly from the health insurance fund to the service provider. In 2018, the compensation was worth EUR 12 million. Maybe some people are asking today why they didn't do it immediately and at once and more, but then the coalition got an agreement on this number in the budget. The idea of social democracies in setting up dental benefits for adults was, and is, that annual dental benefits should increase and, at the same time, their participation in the measure should decrease, even for target groups receiving a higher threshold. Studies show that dental care benefits have helped more people to see a dentist. The main beneficiaries of the benefit are pensioners and those with partial or lack of work capacity, according to an analysis of the application of dental care benefits. After the entry into force of the adult dental care allowance in 2017, both the number of people who visited the dentist's initial visit and the number of people who visited the doctor more frequently increased and the use of the benefit from year to year. The Social Democrats support every step in expanding the range of people benefiting from the increased threshold, in other words, the unemployed and beneficiaries of income support also receive compensation at the increased threshold. Unfortunately, studies also show that we still have too many people who do not take care of their oral hygiene, even if dental care is free. These studies have been carried out at different times, but the same picture is drawn out. As a result, more emphasis must be placed on prevention, as it would help prevent or detect diseases early, and also an important emphasis must be placed on communication, especially among children and young people. If you come to the National Audit Office's audit, it says that the current conditions for receiving compensation leave people with a greater need for treatment in trouble. The audit report points out that even favourable benefits do not improve the availability of dental care, as the protection of people with high medical needs against high healthcare costs remains very low and ineffective. In dental care, people's own costs are high, according to recent data, nearly three times higher than in healthcare in general. As a result, we need to take further steps to ensure that people with greater need for treatment and a thin wallet also reach the dentist. The Social Democrats support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U221	On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U222	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! This bill represents one small step on a long journey that we have begun to take together. As some recall, during the 2009 economic crisis, when it was predicted that it would be a soft landing, a very large number of other things were reduced, including 300 kroon dental care. Well, it took a while for the previous speakers to speak here, but years later they gradually began to think about how to bring this support back to the risk groups. So it was decided, not to mention political parties, well I can say that we were in the government, we were a party of power, that an increased threshold for dental benefits, or 85 euros plus 15% participation will be granted to old-age and incapacity pensioners, people with partial and lack of working capacity, people over 63 years of age, pregnant women, mothers of a child under one year of age and those who really have a heightened need to receive this treatment because of some illness, i.e. simply whose teeth are breaking down. To remind you that there is free dental care in Estonia for people up to 19 years of age and adults with special needs. With the addition of today's law, which we are adopting together, the unemployed, who are unemployed in the sense of the Employment Services and Benefits Act, or registered unemployed, as well as beneficiaries of income support, will also benefit from this right, again under the Social Welfare Act. This is a very important step forward to bring people to the doctor. The usual dental benefit, I recall, is still EUR 40 with a 50% own contribution. This EUR 40, given these high medical prices, is, of course, a rather small amount, but it was still used by some 150,000 people last year and by 100000 people under the increased threshold. These figures are probably going to be bigger this year. However, if, for example, the dental benefit was doubled or extended for the period in which it was paid, it would increase by EUR 10 million or EUR 15 million. I think we're gonna have to do this anytime soon, anyone or whatever, but together we're gonna have to do it. And we also have to resolve the problem that in some of the treatment offices, this benefit still cannot be used. Today's small step will certainly help very many so that people can at least go to dental prophylactic examinations and perhaps fix something a little too, a small hole. So a caring and justice-oriented step, like a number of drafts adopted in this Chamber today. Well, even if the average old-age pension becomes equally tax-free again for everyone, so that we no longer punish working pensioners who are still losing even more than high-paid workers today in the form of taxes. So please support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U223	On behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Peeter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U224	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I was talking about the little bill for a gust of windshield. It's a little bit more meaningful now and positive, I'll tell you what, we support it. But in fact, the situation is quite surreal. We have been discussing this issue in the Special Committee on State Budget Control, perhaps the last time yesterday morning. You see, with all this health and treatment, if anything happens, we have solidarity insurance. But there's an organ, a gut tube, it starts at this teeth and ends there with another hole. And look, after the teeth come the almonds, the almonds are already part of all the other organs that are treated like all the other organs, the legs and the heads. But this first part of the gut tube is a human concern. Well, they say and they say it's human's own business to brush your teeth. But I say, only yesterday morning we discussed that Estonian children are obese. It's the same thing as coke and junk food, but these things are treated in general. But in the case of teeth, as they say, teeth. See for yourself how you're doing. May I remind you that it must have been 2016, when the WHO sent us a bad letter that something had to be done. The following year, we did it, we did it, we passed it. And now, only recently, the National Audit Office showed what the result is. What's the result? The result is that there are roughly 12 to 14 million spent a year on dental care for adults, which I am talking about right now. This current draft, which is good, concerns the unemployed and those who are struggling to cope with 50,000 to 60000 people. So it's positive. But it concerns all adults. It was divided into five quintiles according to wealth. The lowest group that gets under 400 euros a month, the next one was 500 rounds and the top one, the fifth one, the fifth one to which we belong. But then looked at, the National Audit Office watched how it was used, this 12 to 14 million a year. And a lot of it has gone to the right of this, to the right of these quintiles, or to the left, as they say. Everyone has this opportunity and the wealthier quintiles of the population will be divided into five-quarters has used it successfully. But those who need the most, the first and the second group, who, if I remember correctly, make up not 60,000 people, who I stress this bill, a good bill, but it accounts for 31% of adult people. A third! They will not be able to pay this own contribution and all that is intended for them will not be used. And the result is what you can see especially when you walk around the country: a graveyard in your mouth, as they say. No way! It's like a stork is served to eat from a plate. Well, the stork might be knocking around with a beak, banging on a plate, but it's not gonna be full. And this same law, adopted in 2017, has in fact been a good one in itself, to a large extent the supply of food to the stork from a flat plate. Now we have to start looking at how to reform it, because really, in solidarity, everyone will get a part of it, adults, but those who are the poorest or the third of the Estonian people, and they will not be 60000, as the target group of this bill is today, they will be unemployed and unable to cope and pregnant, and so on, but they will be much, much larger [number]. So actually, if we're in this current draft...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U225	Peter, do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U226	Yes, I would.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U227	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U228	If we adopt it, it is a really small step, a bigger step than the draft windshield that we approved, but much bigger is that part of the 'total population' or that third of the people who are currently not receiving this adult dental care allowance in any way, it will not reach them. But all organs are connected, and it also gives consequences to other health. So it's kind of a big deal. If I remember correctly, according to the head of the health insurance fund, yesterday morning, that if dental care is the same as the treatment of all other organs, somewhere 160 million should be accounted for. Many people have been asking, for years, why must such a distinction be that there is an anomaly at one end of the gut tube? It is said that it has arisen that dentists have begun, like private business, and [it is] a historical inevitability. In fact, the historical inevitability is that much longer it has been that the gut tube has always been uniform. Whatever we're looking at. Anyway, a good bill, a little step in the right direction again. But we should take bigger steps. In the context of today, above all, the electricity that Mr Reinsalu spoke successfully here again and many things should be dealt with. Also, one third of people who should be given a better wording for dental benefits, so that this 14 million per year would go to the right place. At this point some 4 million a year goes 'non-targeted', which means that those who need it most cannot, unfortunately, get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U229	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on a draft of 467. First, we're gonna do a hall call. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 467. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U230	The draft is supported by 93 ambassadors, one against, no abstentions. The draft has been approved.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U231	We will go to today's 10th item, which is the third reading of the Act on funded pensions, the Tax Administration Act and the Amending Act on Income Tax, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiations, we can go to the vote. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on a draft of 468. Do you need a hall call? No, it's not. I'll make sure everyone's in the hall. In this case, ladies and gentlemen, I will vote on the draft law on funded pensions, the Tax Administration Act and the amendment of the Income Tax Act, i.e. the Act on funded pensions initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U232	There are 92 ambassadors in favour of the draft, no respondents and no abstentions. The draft has been approved. The tenth item on the agenda is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U233	We can go to the 11th item on the agenda, which is the draft law amending the Income Tax Act, which is initiated by the Government of the Republic, 469. This is a third reading. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Kersti Sarapuu!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U234	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good guys in the hall! The Centre Party Group is pleased that in addition to the extraordinary pension increases that have already been made and are ahead of us, we can also talk here in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu about the income tax exemption for the average old-age pension. Annual indexation increases the average old-age pension, but it is not enough to bring our people out of the poverty line. Two successive extraordinary pension increases have been implemented with partners under the leadership of the Centre Party and the third one will take place on 1 January 2023. It is important to note that the exceptional increase will increase pensions at a faster pace even in the coming years after annual indexation. We have always paid great attention to the livelihood of the elderly, and we take a favourable view of all measures that contribute to improving the lives of pensioners. Raising pensions is a fundamental and necessary course to contribute to reducing inequalities, especially at this difficult time, when the crisis in COVID-19 and the rising prices of energy carriers can further increase social and economic inequalities. Old age pensions must rise faster than the cost of living, as the situation of older people in Estonia is one of the most difficult in the European Union. In 2019, over 40% of our elderly lived in relative poverty. This is unfair and detestable to the dignity of the country and people, which is why further steps must be taken to improve the well-being of the elderly. Finally, the increase in indexation and the basic pension amount of EUR 20 is expected to increase from 1 April 2023 to EUR 295.1 and the average old-age pension of 44 years of pensionable age is expected to increase to EUR 654. In 2024, the average old-age pension is expected to rise to EUR 690. The situation of many of our pensioners is far from rosy, but little by little we are moving in the direction of providing a decent life and dignified ageing for all our elderly. We will therefore wholeheartedly support this bill so that our elderly people can have additional support in these difficult times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U235	Thank you. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U236	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, we must thank the previous coalition for adopting the second pillar of pension volunteering. If that decision hadn't been made, we wouldn't be discussing the bill we have on this table today. On the other hand, I am very sad that, although the Centre Party here now praises that this bill is so good, in reality what our party has been saying for the last three years, that the average pension should be exempt from income tax, the Minister of the Centre Party has failed, as Siret mentioned earlier. And now we have a draft at third reading, where the average pension tax exemption will not be made from 1 January next year, which would be natural for today's increase in energy prices, but in 2023. It takes three years to make a computer program to help our elderly people and raise their available pension. Honestly, it's embarrassing. If any minister fails in his field, then it must be recognised and recalled. Of course, it is incomprehensible that we have so far had ministers in the field, but now before the speaker said he was a party minister. Maybe in this case, it's forgiving, that it doesn't have to go exactly the way it's meant to be. But if we look at today's situation and we see the state of the energy market, I think there will be a great deal that can be improved in another week. Today the Isamaa Party handed over an address to the government to make quick decisions on how to help the people of Estonia to cover the costs of domestic heat and electricity, as well as our entrepreneurs. At the moment, we should think very clearly and quickly about making these decisions. In spring 2020, when the COVID crisis arose, the government of that time was able to make decisions in two weeks. At the moment, it seems that the Fatherland is proposing, then it will take six months to pass, then the coalition will come with this proposal and this decision will be made. However, as we can see in this decision, when we proposed an amendment to the state budget, either way or by way of voluntaryisation of the second pension pillar, has come to the state budget to raise pensions and benefits, it was not supported to allow this decision to take effect from 1 January 2022. We are discussing that this decision will only take effect in a year's time. Perhaps indeed, we admit, at the salary of the members of the Riigikogu, you will not notice which electricity and heat bills come from the home. Maybe so. But 75% of the residents of Estonia, residents of work and pensioners receive either average or below average wages. And if heating costs are rising to several hundred euros, i.e. two or three times, even if you have a fixed electricity price today, as lucky as I have, then I have already received a letter from Eesti Energia that from the new year this price is twice [higher]. With gas, there's nothing to talk about, you'll find out next month that your price is already new. And from January, it's new. After all, this price has risen almost three times by today. This needs to be paid by the Estonian population. Why? If we know today that the cost of producing energy, of producing electricity is EUR 30 megawatt-hour. Yesterday it was said that the price on the stock market was 1000+ euros. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U237	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U238	It was only five years ago that we were a happy country that could produce as much electricity as we consumed ourselves in the European Union. Do you know that two more power blocks will be shut down in Narva in the next two years? Do you know that we can't even cover half our consumption anymore? Yesterday, Estonia could not cover its own needs. Right here for the last ten years we've been talking about green energy and wind farms. For ten years, our country's officials have not allowed any wind farm development to take place. None! And then, when an official gets out of office, he writes that some politician is upset. Of course he's upset. Check out the environmental map of how many places you can put in a wind farm in Estonia? It's practically not. Or the Department of Defense says we have some work to do, we have some radars not purchased for ten years. They're ten times more expensive by now, which they're buying now. That's why you can't do it. Now we are here at the bill, where the money is physically available in the state budget, but we do not give our people the extraordinary pension increase that has actually been taken away from our pensioners for the entire century and given to banks to play in the second pension pillar. This has risen very well in the last year since the second pension pillar was made optional, but before that 15 years there was virtually no increase, in some of the individual pension pillars it may have increased, but most did not. Think today, coalition politicians, why are you going to make this rise in two years' time when all the elderly expect it from 1 January? So thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U239	Thank you. Siret Eagle, the line, right?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U240	Yeah. As Mr Kokk has mentioned my name here, I would like to say that Mr Kokk may interpret my words, but not by interpreting them in the opposite direction. I never said Minister Kiik hadn't done his job. On the contrary, Minister Kiik is doing his job with his heart and has repeatedly come to the Riigikogu with very good solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U241	Thank you. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U242	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, We still love rankings in Estonia, but unfortunately we are also at the top of the ranking in terms of relative poverty among pensioners. At the same time, we are also at the top in terms of the employment rate of the elderly. It is seen as positive that we have an inclusive labour market in this sense, that employment rates are relatively even across both genders and age groups. In fact, though, it is an indication that it is difficult for the elderly to cope and that they work to earn more retirement. When it comes to generational inequality, there is no doubt that current pensioners are a generation who spent working life in the Soviet Union. They could not save their old age. Even if they did, we all know what was the result of this savings as a result of monetary reforms. Thus, the state's obligation to ensure the livelihood of pensioners is much greater for the current generation of pensioners than for the following. And thus, making the average pension exempt is the right step. This EUR 654 exempt from income tax must undoubtedly be supported and the fact that it is indexed to an average pension is equally very correct. In fact, the old income tax reform was also designed so that tax-free income moves along, it is then a minimum wage, with an average pension. No doubt he'll get in the way of time. So the average pension is exempt from income tax and its indexation, so that with an average increase in the tax-free minimum, the right course for people aged 65 is undoubtedly the right one. But now this side of implementation. This cannot be accepted in the same way. Those who stand for the change have so far also stressed the simplicity of the tax system. We now come to the point that, in addition to the complex system of tax-free income that we currently have, we will have two different tax regimes. One applies to people under the age of 65 and the other applies to people over the age of 65. So we will undoubtedly make the tax system more complex with this decision. Coping with people must not be left behind in this complexity. But, as in the past, by making changes to tax-free income, in fact, a uniform tax-free minimum for all and, in terms of budgetary neutrality, a higher tax rate for the rest of the earners would be a much more reasonable solution. On this particular draft, the Social Democrats have proposed an amendment and it concerns the working people. The fact that the minimum income tax-free pension for pensioners increases to the average pension is excellent. But coping is for people who work hard. Work must also make it possible to live. Today, there have already been repeated talk of high energy prices and inflation in this remote control. The fact that the income tax-free minimum for working persons is not indexed and remains at EUR 500 if the minimum wage rises to EUR 654 next year is unacceptable. We will compensate for this by paying more support from the budget. This is not a dignified solution, it is not a sensible solution. Higher tax-free income also for the working person, in the same amount as for pensioners, would be both administratively, in the interests of the simplicity of the system, reasonable but also socially fair. So it is a great pity that the Socialist amendment was not supported, but we will continue to make sure that the tax-free minimum also rises for the working person and keeps pace with time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U243	Thank you. Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U244	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As head of the Reform Party Group, it is a great pleasure that we have reached a third reading with the draft exemption of the average pension from income tax, and I would ask all members of the Riigikogu to support this change. This is a very welcome message for 270000 people who, as of 1 January 2023, will receive more money than their earned pension. In particular, this message was expected by the working pensioners who suffered the most from the tax hump imposed by the previous government. The fact that there is no income tax on the average pension has been a long-term political principle that we have respected in all governments that we manage. In our view, if a person has earned his pension with honest work, it is not right to tax it at least on the average. The previous government, however, gave up this principle, which meant that taxes began to eat pension increases. If last year's average pension rose by more than EUR 500, every euro in excess of that amount went into income tax 20 cents. On 1 January 2023, the average pension is now known to be EUR 654. This means that this legislative amendment will raise the money available to the average pensioner by 30 euros each month. In a situation where we are still talking about the risk of poverty for the elderly, this is a major step. The good news is also for working pensioners. I recall that the tax hump of the tax system that came into force in 2018 created the most acutely working pensioners. Up to 57% of them started getting less money than they did before. Although all political parties promised that this injustice would have to be corrected, we did not get this far until under the rule of the Reform Party. This EUR 654 will be exempt for working pensioners in any case, regardless of how much they still earn. This is a sign that we appreciate their contribution to the labour market. Thank you. In these last sentences, the answer must also be sought in Isamaa, who is here today heartbreakingly asking why this legislative amendment will not apply sooner, for example in three weeks' time. Friends, where were you in those years when you were in charge of the government and screwed up the unprecedented income tax shit? The average pension exemption from income tax could have been entered in the budget in 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020. However, this did not happen. Today's government has moved on exactly as quickly as the budgetary frameworks and the IT capabilities of the system allow, and it has reached the result here today in front of you. I call on everyone to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U245	Thank you very much. I don't see any more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed a final vote, but I have the feeling that we still have to do the hall call before that. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft law amending the Income Tax Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 469. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U246	The draft was supported by 91 delegates, no votes against, no abstentions. The bill has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U247	Today's 12th item is the third reading of the draft State Budget Act 2022 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I call Andrei Korobeinik, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, as rapporteur for the remote. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U248	Thank you, President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, We now have a very important point here, namely the state budget for next year. And I'm going to tell you what happened in preparation for the third reading. The Finance Committee discussed the preparation of the draft State Budget Act for the third reading on 23 November and 6 December. The debate was very thorough and passionate. I will focus on what happened in these two sittings. I note that next year's budget revenue will be 13 billion.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U249	Wait, Andrei! Please, let's keep it down in the hall, okay?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U250	Yeah. It's actually a unique opportunity, it won't come again. Thank you very much to your colleagues. So it's the amount of revenue. The volume of revenue is 13132000000 and the volume of expenditure is 136333000000. The investment volume is 724 million. While the volume of expenditure exceeds the volume of revenue, the structural position has improved both in relation to the previous year and in relation to the country's budgetary strategy for 2022 to 2025. Some important objectives have been taken into account in the public budget, such as 1% of GDP going to R &amp; D expenditure, which is positive. The state budget for the following year was drawn up on the basis of the state budget strategy 2022-2025, the programme of action of the Government of the Republic, the recommendations of the European Commission in the framework of the European semester and the summer economic forecast of the Ministry of Finance. Activities will be planned accordingly. 44 amendments were received by the deadline of 22 November. 25 of them are from the Social Democratic Party Group and 19 from the Isamaa Group. Most of the proposals were in line with the amendments tabled for the second reading of the draft, and they are all included in the list of amendments. There was no very in-depth discussion of these proposals in the Commission. I assume that this took place before the second reading when I was on another committee. The Committee on Finance drafted 10 amendments and this debate was already much longer. Several of the Commission's amendments consist of clarifications within and between the areas of government of ministries and have been drawn up on the basis of additional information from ministries. Specific explanations have been added to each item in the list of amendments. At times, the table is very comprehensive. The third amendment, the amendment tabled by the Commission, concerns regional investment. There was a long and exciting debate on this amendment, and some of the ambassadors withdrew their proposals for regional investment and asked for the resources available to cover the deficit of the state budget instead of the reserve. But this proposal in the Commission was not very popular. The seventh proposal follows in the draft law amending the Law on maritime safety from halving the rate of the waterway charge instead of the quarter foreseen. It's a negative proposal, but it's projected to bring more money into the state budget. In addition, the proposal of the Committee on Monetary Affairs would increase funds by EUR 5,7 million for the continuation of the international passenger shipping support measure next year. A quarter of a million will be devoted to the renovation of St. Laurent's Church, and this has come from the reduction in the amount of the monument to the War of Independence of Hiiumaa. RMK's dividends amount to 2.5 million for Rally Estonia. From the proposals made by the Isamaa Group, the Commission partially took into account one proposal, which concerns the same waterway charge. The other proposals were not supported and were not supported by the Government of the Republic either. According to § 120 (5) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, amendments submitted after the completion of the second reading of the draft state budget, which are not supported by the Government of the Republic and which have not been taken into consideration by the leading committee, are not to be voted on. Many of the proposals envisaged the reserve of the Government of the Republic as a source of cover, but in the reserve of the Government of the Republic, only 6 million have been earmarked for unforeseen expenses for the next year. While the total amount is high, there are over 100 million, these funds are generally intended for specific activities, such as ICT project costs of 37.7 million, real estate construction of 12.4 million, R &amp; D of 7.1 million and so on. Following the comments of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the Ministry of Finance prepared a record of errors in the state budget explanatory memorandum for the following year and a corrected explanatory memorandum, and this is attached to the draft map online. The text of the draft has been introduced with linguistic and technical specifications. The Commission took the following consensual decisions: Take the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by Wednesday, 8 December 2021, end the third reading and conclude the final vote. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U251	Thank you. It is now possible to ask questions. The first questioner is Aivar Chef. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U252	Good manager! Good chairman of the committee! First of all, I would like to thank you for getting [to start] very quickly by changing the chairman of the committee. As an entrepreneur, you understand that the water fee was important and the proposal from the Fatherland was unanimously supported by the Commission, just as it was a year ago when I was chairman of the committee and I proposed it. I have concerns that one proposal was not supported. We are talking about a draft, which we ended at third reading moments ago, with an over-the-counter pension increase and an exemption from income tax, so that it will come into force next year. Unfortunately, coalition politicians did not support it. But I also have a question. As in the last debate [to be heard], the Minister of Finance ordered an increase in RMK's dividends in order to support WRC Rally Estonia with 2.5 million. Maybe you can open that point up a little bit more. I remember that Jürgen Ligi was very critical of this issue and did not take part in the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U253	Thank you very much for your question. There were a few remarks I probably couldn't comment on, because I'm not a member of the Fatherland. However, as regards the Commission's debate, Jürgen did indeed participate: he did not vote and, afterwards, regretted that he did not vote. But then the result was already known. Indeed, we are talking about organising Rally Estonia and these funds are proposed by the Commission to come from RMK's dividends. The vote in the committee was 5: 4. Since 5 is higher than 4, the proposal found support.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U254	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U255	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The public is aware that Jüri Ratas and WHO have signed a Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation, Digital Health and Innovation on 5 October 2020. To date, a document on the implementation of the digital COVID-19 certificate is also available to the public on the WHO website. The very important information is on page 6 of this document, where we can see that in addition to Bill and Melinda Gates, the Rockefeller Foundation and other interested sponsors, the Government of the Republic of Estonia is also financing the document. A question for you, as Chairman of the Monetary Commission, who should know all things exactly: what amount is the Government of the Republic of Estonia financing this project and what budget line is this funding provided for?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U256	Thank you. Undoubtedly an incredibly exciting subject! However, no amendments have been received between second and third readings on this subject. This is also the main reason why the Commission has not discussed this at these two meetings. So, unfortunately, I cannot give any explanation under this point, although I would very much like to.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U257	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U258	The ink has not yet dried up from the decision, where representatives of the coalition voted down the proposal of the Fatherland to lower the VAT on indoor heating, electricity and gas, in order to make it easier for the Estonian people to cope with this price craze. Don't you really feel sorry for the people? What amazes me in particular, Mr Korobenik, you have moved from the Reform Party to the Centre Party, Mr Aas, I am reading, today says: the VAT must be lowered; tomorrow, the rulers, the host-family wives will be asked to table these proposals; why did the Centre Party not support this proposal in the vote of the Committee on Monetary Affairs? Why are you opposed to a reduction in VAT so that consumers will have EUR 225 million in their pocket next year and we will reduce inflation by at least 2%?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U259	Thank you. Well, not only did I move from the Reform Party to the Central Party, but I also moved from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I can assure you that the ink was completely dry when I got there, and these amendments, which were tabled before the second reading, had already been voted through before me. Now, as far as the third-reading amendments are concerned, their debate took about, I guess, a minute and a half. And they were voted as a package because they had already been voted by the Commission once. In terms of general logic, the reason was above all that most of these amendments require the national reserve to be the source of cover, but the national reserve has EUR 6 million, which is meant for unforeseen costs, not 200 million or more. Since 6 million is such a small amount, the very good amendments were mostly not supported, because there is simply no money. These are the times.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U260	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U261	Thank you. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Would you like to say how much the budget for next year will increase compared to the budget for this year's year's year's year's year's year's year's year's year's year's year's year's year's year's year's year's year's year's year's year's year's year's year's year's budget's year's year's year's year's year's budget's year's year's year's year's year's year's year's year's year's year's year's year's year's year's year's year's year's year's year's year's year's year's year's year's year's year's year's year's year's budget's year's year's year's budget's year's It would be good if we could find out how many billions or several hundred million will increase. And in this context, do you think and the Commission believe that it is justified to cut the county routes, remove toilets and waste bins from the state roads, resulting from the government budget cut, [also] interest education cut, modest 4 million, etc.? This list could continue, but I'm running out of a minute. Please say this increase in the budget and in its context, do you feel that this is justified?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U262	Thank you. As a Commission rapporteur, I will focus on what took place at Commission meetings between second and third readings. There were two sessions, and there were no proposals that would have mentioned, for example, the removal of waste bins. It is a general logic for ministries to reduce the costs of their own administration, but a thorough debate took place both in the Commission and in this Chamber considerably several hours earlier. So I am before you to introduce what happened before the third reading, and I am happy to answer questions concerning these two sessions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U263	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U264	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress Andrei! Look, I come from the Committee on the Environment and in the Committee on the Environment we have discussed very thoroughly the development of Estonian forestry, including the welfare of RMK. And the Committee on the Environment has been fully unanimous that dividend income should be reduced. It has set such an example to show the people who should understand it [so] that in the future, the forest will indeed be cut down less. It has been such a political, general political statement, a good statement. At the same time, it has also been discussed whether dividend income, if any, should be taken into the state budget or should invest more in the Estonian forest back, no way of fixing forest roads, drainage systems, planting forest. It is now completely incomprehensible whose proposal has happened because the Committee on the Environment has been dealing with this subject quite differently. Rally Estonia never came up. How did this happen, and who proposed it? And was the Committee on the Environment discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U265	Thank you. However, this debate was probably held at government level, and it was also quite thorough in the Commission. Indeed, it is not a matter of, I think, the amount of dividends, but of where exactly this money goes. Whether Rally Estonia is the ideal target for directing 2.5 million RMKs to the target is a question of discussion. But the Commission made this decision, it voted, as appropriate to the Commission, this action took place, and as of 5: 4 this proposal was supported, so now it is here before us. Yes, that was the decision of the ambassadors. Not consensual, but the majority decided.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U266	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U267	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! I understand that, of course, the Commission is discussing the proposals that have been made here between the two readings, but it cannot be overlooked that the state budget increased by 1.8 billion and the percentage increase was 17 on the revenue side. And now, if you come to the municipalities, in fact, none of the proposals submitted by the Commission concerning the municipalities of the Fatherland found it possible to satisfy [existing]. Several of them were smaller than the amounts in this government reserve, which was said. Was there any substantive objection as to why the municipalities were unequivocally rejected and all these proposals were rejected?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U268	There was no substantive debate on these amendments before the third reading, because they were identical to those tabled before the second reading. They were then discussed by the Commission. If, for example, the volume of a specific proposal is less than 6 million, when you put it together, there will be a higher amount. In this sense, the Commission can, of course, make a choice. But if, for example, the Isamaa Group made proposals with a volume of hundreds of millions, I honestly do not know exactly what [these] considerations were before the second reading in the Commission I was not present, I only read the minutes. But indeed, the Commission only took into account one amendment by the Fatherland concerning the waterway charges, and the rest was simply rejected by one vote. And so he remained before the third reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U269	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U270	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! If you remember, I asked you about the implementation of the digital COVID-19 certificate [about], in which the government of the Republic of Estonia is also a shareholder, and I wanted to know from you what amount the government of the Republic of Estonia was financing the project and what budget line it was coming from. Your answer was literally that: it was not discussed by the Commission between the first reading and the second reading. I don't want to know if he was discussing or discussing. What I want to know from the very high-ranking official of the Committee on Monetary Affairs is the amount of funding for this project and which budget line. You are the leader of this committee and you must be able to answer all the questions in detail. The question is also that both the high figures of your government, Jüri Ratas and Tanel Kiik, are behind it, of course, Kaja Kallas.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U271	Thank you. You're wrong about quite a few things. Firstly, I did not say that the Commission did not discuss this at first or second reading. I'm talking about what happened between second and third readings. Second of all, I'm not an official. And thirdly, I am still talking about what happened in the two specific sessions. And indeed, in these about five minutes, my answer has not changed: the Commission has not discussed this between second and third readings, and neither have the EKRE Group's ambassadors made any amendments in order to withdraw or add anything to the cooperation project. [If there were], I would have reason to report it to you, but there is no reason for it now, and I can't even do it if I want to.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U272	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U273	Good manager! Good waitress! I would like to ask where the 50 bins that the minister mentioned here, which are being cleaned up, are located. But the real question is: where did the EUR 1424000 come from suddenly? If you look at the difference between the previous reading and the current one, the current revenue is 13132233000, but last time it was 13130809000. Where did 1424000 come from between two readings? Where did you find it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U274	Thank you. For the most part, this is not our achievement, but these are package proposals from ministries. There were not only changes with a positive sign, but also a negative sign. In conclusion, the fact that the plus came is probably due to different circumstances, such as the same RMK dividend yield had increased etc. So in this sense, there is no single line where the answer to your question is. But all these tables are available at the back of the hall, where they can be easily accessed and possibly verified.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U275	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U276	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good chairman of the committee! I listened to your answers and fell off the chair. I came to this hall because I couldn't listen in my office anymore. I understand your surprise about becoming chairman of the committee unexpectedly, it really came as a surprise to you. But the fact that you haven't managed and didn't want, I don't know, to essentially discuss, isn't like enough answer and justification. If it took you a minute and a half to discuss the issue of reducing the tax on electricity prices in the Commission, you did not, in principle, discuss it, then I have a question of how you will discuss it in your political party. I understand that your Minister, Mr Aas, has made a similar proposal. Did the debate in the group have the same time and a half minutes, you put him on the ground, and what he is presenting to us is actually a communication project, and you are essentially not dealing with this subject in the Centre Party, just as you are chairing this committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U277	Thank you. I have to admit that I used to be in the second committee, and there we did indeed usually discuss every amendment, and I was completely prepared internally that this would happen in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but it turned out that the ambassadors' expectations were different. They have already seen these amendments repeatedly, and they did not have such an internal combustion. It was not a road roll policy, but I actually followed my colleagues' wishes and put them to the vote as a package. No objection from the ambassadors of the Fatherland, to put it mildly, did.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U278	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U279	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You claimed that all these proposals put forward by the Fatherland were copy-paste proposals made at second reading. Well, it wasn't, there were some changes. I will give just one example: for the reconstruction of the railway in Tallinn. Now, if you look back, was this process a little after all looked at the fact that the opposition is coming and, no matter how meaningful [proposals] are, we are not taking them into consideration anyway? Whether this energy crisis is what it is, it doesn't matter, because these inputs come from outside and from the wrong place. Open up a little bit more of that side of the kitchen, though. Yeah, I understand Jürgen's making a very strong voice around here, but he can't go on his own. Open it, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U280	Thank you for your question. Part of the question, of course, coincides with the previous one. But I totally agree with the statement that there were new amendments, such as the regional funds that came from the Isamaa Group, all of which were accounted for. These were hundreds of thousands [euros], unanimously supported by the Commission. And there was no dispute, although there were certain procedural concerns, but all these proposals were supported. The Commission worked mostly in a good constructive cooperation format. Sometimes there were disputes, but I suppose these disputes were mostly held before the second reading. Before the third reading, everyone had already been familiar with these red lines, and this debate was perhaps a little more calm.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U281	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U282	Listen, mister waitress, I'm not satisfied with this prep style of yours. You are like a deserter who, at night, parachuted to the enemy's rear, the Committee on Monetary Affairs, that you do not know what is going on in Estonian politics. You know nothing about the price crisis; you know nothing about what is happening in the Committee on Monetary Affairs; you know nothing about what happened in the debate before second reading. And you say everything was approved as a pile. You wanted to go to work, but colleagues in the Committee on Monetary Affairs didn't let me. My question is very clear: what is your personal position? Why didn't you support, in a package or in isolation, the proposal to reduce VAT on energy carriers, in this logic, which you know perfectly well that the source of cover for most of it is a growing or over-exploited extra VAT due to the rise in the price of electricity, gas and heating? This has also been stated by the leading politicians of your own government and a member of the European Commission. Why are we dragging this kind of thing in a situation where most of the cover actually comes from us simply because of increased turnover and higher price levels in the country? Answer it, please! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I need that answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U283	Time, Urmas!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U284	Thank you, good Urmas! You and I have been together for years on this political journey, sometimes regrettably separated, and you know perhaps even better than I do that, as a Commission waitress, I cannot express my personal opinion. I really want to do this. We can also discuss energy concerns together after this presentation, but I cannot do this now as the Commission's rapporteur. So I wouldn't be happy to answer personal questions from this remote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U285	The procedure, Urmas Reinsalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U286	I don't know what's going on here. I didn't ask Andrei Korobenik as a chess player or an information mechanic for a personal question. I asked the head of the central budget parliament, the constitutional body, for a position on why a specific proposal was not supported. This is in no way a personal address that concerns private or other problems. Mr President, do I have a legitimate right on Parliament's most important issue, the most important act of budget approval, to receive a substantive response at the heart of the most acute crisis concerning the price crisis for energy carriers?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U287	I specify that we have a third reading of the draft state budget law here, 464 SE. Of course, every Riigikogu ambassador has the right to ask for substantive answers. Whether he really can or can't, I can't guarantee that. Helir-Valdor Seeder also has a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U288	Thank you. I have the same subject, a procedural question. Indeed, the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs indicated that he could not answer the question as to why he and some other members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs voted against the amendment which provided for a reduction in VAT. He pointed out that the Rules of Procedure did not allow him to answer that personal question. In my opinion, the Rules of Procedure allow, that is a completely substantive issue, and the Rules of Procedure even obliges him to reply to what were the arguments of one or the other Members in the Commission that they voted in this way. It's not a personal question. Have I understood the Rules of Procedure correctly? If I have understood the Rules of Procedure correctly, I would ask the President to give the floor to the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs to answer that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U289	Yeah, I don't think there have been any personal issues here either, but there have been issues relating to the draft or to the procedure. I think the complaining should be addressed, but before that, Urmas Reinsalu will once again have a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U290	Thank you. I think it was a salomonic solution from the President of the sitting now to give the floor to the rapporteur, the opportunity to correct, to raise the quality of the answers in substance and to achieve a real substantive response, which concerns one of the most central issues for the whole society, all of which should also speak to all politicians, and it seems to me that it is. We need a substantive debate and substantive answers, which is the least we can offer to society. The situation is that they are secret, they are not to be spoken of in this chair, or someone has banned it. I don't agree with that line of reasoning. I think that Parliament has the right to expect honest answers from the rapporteur on what were the motives for his or others to vote against, because this is also a very important point of drawing conclusions on possible future alternatives to how to get out of this crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U291	Yeah, I also hope we have the most substantive debate possible. Before I give the floor to the waitress, Jüri Jaanson also has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U292	The questions come from questions in the Chamber and from the fact that I feel that this issue and this talk are going to be very much spread out. I therefore ask the President of the sitting to clarify the role that the rapporteur is in and should do at this point.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U293	I'd love to be specific. The rapporteur shall be a representative of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and shall be the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. He is a rapporteur for the Committee on Monetary Affairs, who talks about the procedure before the final vote and the third reading. Does Andrei want to answer those questions that seem to have gotten into the air, or do I give the floor to Priit Sibula as a question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U294	Good chair, I'm confused right now. Good Urmas asked very specifically, we can see this in the verbatim, which is my personal opinion. My personal opinion. I have different personal opinions, but as a Commission waitress, I do not consider it appropriate to publish them; we can do this in another format, not in this Chamber. That's why I didn't see the opportunity to express my personal opinion. Now that the question is why the Members of the Commission did not support one or the other proposal, I repeatedly answered that question, well, twice. Firstly, there was no substantive debate between second and third readings on the amendments of the Fatherland. It was a consensual proposal from the Members of the Commission that they had seen these proposals, discussed them and did not want this debate before the third reading. I really do not know why one or the other Member voted as he did. I just don't know how to read minds, and even in the role of Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I don't have that chance, and that's why I don't know how to give an opinion about other ambassadors. They did not argue for or against their vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U295	Let's try to stick to the procedure. Urmas Reinsalu, please, procedural.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U296	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. It seems to me that there is a risk of going against the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure. It is precisely in the budgetary procedure that a special procedure is provided for, where a substantive debate is also held before the third reading and it is unique that amendments can also be dealt with at the third reading. Now the chairman of the committee has made a statement that amazes me and shocks me. He said that there was no substantive debate in the committee. The Rules of Procedure Act provides for a substantive debate between the first and second readings as well as between the second and third readings. The chairman of the committee now admitted that there was no substantive debate on the spending of EUR 13 billion of taxpayers' money under the constitutional budgetary procedure. The proposal to reduce VAT to 9% did not even find the right to live or bother in the Commission to discuss it in substance. My question is, Mr President, is this not a situation where we have had a procedural breach of the Commission when I speak about the interpretation of the meaning of the Rules of Procedure Act? I would like to draw the attention of the President of the sitting to [the matter] and I would be pleased if he addresses it and offers the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs the opportunity to respond. My question about his personal opinion was not that there was some delicate, intimate or private problem, but that was the question that, if Jürgen Ligi was silent in the vote, he would, of course, not be able to explain the motives of the Members of the Commission, as, for example, we assume that one or the other Member of the Commission did not express it. However, as a member of the Commission, he can essentially explain why the Members of the Commission, who expressed themselves or were silent, did not consider it reasonable to support this proposal. How does the President interpret whether there must be a substantive debate on the amendments in the Committee on Monetary Affairs between second and third readings? Secondly, is it permissible or is it not permissible to present the motive for voting by the Members of the Commission, albeit by a specific vote [motives], from this Parliament's chair of speech by the rapporteur of the lead committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U297	I'd calm down, Urmas. I do not see the risk now that we have broken our rules of procedure with this procedure. How thorough or not the debate in the Commission is indeed, rightly stated, that there is a special procedure for the draft budget, there is nothing written to us about the quality or volume of the debate, but certainly these procedures have been passed. That, I think, no one's questioning here. And it is certainly right that the rapporteur, when it comes to the question, can also thoroughly put his motivation or his opinion in it, but first of all, he must talk about what was in the debate in the Commission. Here, I think he's already told us that several times. Helir-Valdor Seeder also has a procedure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U298	Thank you. Indeed, the chairman of the committee has spoken, but not answered the questions. And he has admitted that he is also confused and, in this situation, it is very difficult for us to have a constructive debate here. However, I do not really agree with the opinion of the President of the sitting that the situation that we have here is not in conflict with the Rules of Procedure, as the Committee on Monetary Affairs did not, in substance, read the budget between second and third readings. The issue is not that the budget is an extremely important document, and what is the volume of the budget, but that the Rules of Procedure Act provides for the exception that, between second and third readings, amendments which cannot be proposed for other drafts can be proposed to the state budget, and only those amendments that have been approved by the Commission will come to the vote from the big floor. This obviously requires a substantive debate before the third reading, not a formal vote. So I do think that there is a contradiction with the Rules of Procedure Act and it would be reasonable to put an end to this debate here today and give the Committee on Monetary Affairs the opportunity to conduct a substantive debate, and then continue with the third reading of the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U299	I mean, no proposer was absent from the committee session, there were representatives of all the political groups present, as far as I can understand, perhaps the chairman of the committee can clarify this, and everyone was able to launch this debate or to have a say in this debate. I do not think that we are experiencing a crisis of the Rules of Procedure. But I am going to give the Commission's waitress a very specific word. Please, Andrei!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U300	Yeah, thanks! Not only were all the political groups represented nicely at the committee meeting, the Fatherland was represented even at the level of the vice-chairman. I have already answered the earlier question that I was used to having all the amendments voted separately, but the proposal was to vote together, and in this sense, indeed, the vice-chairman is much more advanced than I am. I examined these proposals in the minutes. No objections to the fact that they would be voted together and to a substantive debate before the second reading, before the third reading, were made about these proposals, not over the budget, and so he went. The argument that there was no substantive debate about the budget was not made out of my mouth is a rewording that is not true. The debate was substantive. And now that I understand that we have a consensus that personal issues are also completely welcome, I certainly could not support the proposal that went into the national reserve, with 6 million free money, and in a situation where the volume of the proposal was several hundred million. So it just kind of didn't come together. That's why I didn't support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U301	And let's continue on the procedural wave. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U302	Thank you. Here, as a mouse pulls out of the burrow by its tail, the real-life answers are now starting to come with the last sentences, we just have to dismantle this formal part of the report. The question is, Mr President, that what I said was not that we are in any way in conflict with the procedure in this House or that we are violating the provision or point of the Rules of Procedure Act, of course not. My question requires a substantive assessment of the meaning of the Rules of Procedure Act as to how the state budget will be dealt with in the Committee on Monetary Affairs after the second reading. In my opinion, this quality does not meet the expectations of the Rules of Procedure Act in this logic, where special procedures are designed. This is not the case with procedures such as formal other formal laws, where sending to the hall before third reading is merely a decision with a substantive liturgical meaning, it has no possibility of amending the substance. We now have the opportunity to change the substance, we can reject everything and make all the changes, or not support what the Commission has proposed, with that difference. And I'm still coming back to it. Mr President, should we not offer the chairman of the Commission, who is speaking about the sources of cover, the opportunity to open up essentially what he was not prepared to support the reduction of VAT on electricity, district heating and gas in the energy shock in which we are now sitting? Because, you see, Mr President, the work has changed. This budget text, which we are working on, lives on the basis of the summer forecast, but I am sorry, we had an inflation rate of 8.8% in November. And it's not a joke. The VAT rate on people's income is 8,8%...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U303	Urmas, we have gone very far from a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U304	We're not going far...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U305	It's not procedural.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U306	Mr President, please give the rapporteur the opportunity, in essence, to respond to his own motives regarding the rejection of the proposal controlling inflation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U307	I have a request that you do not abuse procedures. Here's the fourth and fifth question through my waitress to ask it is no longer procedural. We are also honest about these substantive discussions. Most of the 54 amendments that were here, and especially those that were rejected, are reusable. They came to us at second reading and have already been through this great Chamber and the Commission once. It is certainly not fair to say that they have not been discussed at all. [[A voice from the hall.]] The government will react to this if it turns out that this budget today is known what the budget framework is, we have a summer forecast, the government sends it to the Riigikogu at the end of September and the budget volume frame can no longer be changed, and that is how it has gone completely wrong, and then we will make a new budget here in January-February-March. [[A voice from the hall.]] But we're the rule of law, aren't we? We in this Chamber are following the law, aren't we? And now Priit Onion has a question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U308	Thank you very much, Mr President. It's been so long since I've been the first to ask in line. I agree with you that there is probably no crisis in the Rules of Procedure, but there is no confusion. However, I have a question for the rapporteur why he did not support the proposal to reduce VAT from 20% to 9%, that is one question. Secondly, since I understand that Savisaar did not support it, it was not worth discussing it again, and therefore it was unreasonable for Korobeinik to vote differently, so I have understood about it, so I have a question about what really came in the third reading. As far as I know, in the government, it has already been agreed in the previous government that when Rally Estonia takes place, funds will be allocated from the government reserve. It now became clear that it was necessary to increase the expectation of the RMK dividend in order to support this race. What happened to that government reserve? And somewhere in town, there's a rumor that they want to make a volleyball center instead. Is it [so]? What did they tell you? I understand it didn't come from your own head, but, as you indicated, somewhere in the ministry. What knowledge and understanding was presented to you in that committee, and why did you support it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U309	Thank you. Of these two questions, I might answer the first. And I've already answered that. Since this amount was higher than the amount of the reserve, which was intended for unforeseen costs, I could not support it, the money simply was not in the reserve. Unfortunately, there were not enough resources for this proposal. However, as the good chair said, times change, we may come back to this issue and so on within the framework of the additional budget. Unfortunately, at the moment, we did not have enough room for manoeuvre in the Commission, and that is why I could not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U310	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U311	Honourable Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I was extremely sad to learn that you did not have a substantive debate on the amendments, especially given that, even at first and second readings, we were not able to discuss so much on certain issues in this Chamber. Mr Savisaar, previous Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, acknowledged that the amendments in the field of education were not very discussed at the level of the Commission at second reading. As a result, I can conclude that education as a whole is not such a priority for the current coalition. The amendments concerning the financing of higher education, the financing of higher education, the topic of teacher follow-up, the education of interest were voted down. My question is: why did you vote down all the amendments in the field of education?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U312	Thank you. Definitely not all of them. There were ten amendments before the third reading, and some of these amendments are undoubtedly related to the field of education. If you can access the table, there are quite a few. With regard to what is a priority and what is not, within this budget, there is [a] increase in teachers' pay, quite a number of investments in schools, etc. I think it is a little wrong to take different areas and compare them with the aim of understanding what is a priority and what is not. This may not, in this sense, be the responsibility of the Committee on Monetary Affairs to choose the priority areas, for example, to say that education is more important than social issues, etc. I'm talking about third reading, the change proposal table is available, and it's all right there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U313	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U314	Thank you. Good Andrei! In fact, I feel quite at home: if the President of the sitting did not intervene, this matter would remind us here of the Pärnu City Council sitting. But we're still going to the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U315	I can leave.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U316	Public transport, 2% cut. I understand it's basically going down on Rally Estonia, those kilometers. But what does that mean now in real life? Did you discuss this in the Commission? After all, we realise that energy prices are increasing, energy also plays an important role in public transport. At the same time, cuts are taking place, it is said that, in fact, this 2% cut has not yet exactly been agreed on how it is going to be. We have county public transport centres that have to share responsibility for our transport network. And so let's move faster and faster to where the bus goes once a day, we take it away and the problem is smaller, because the number of passengers is generally smaller there. It is much more difficult to cut where the network is denser. Did you discuss this and what is this position?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U317	Not until the third reading. A brief discussion took place before the second reading, as far as I have been able to identify the protocols. Free public transport stays where it is, and apparently certain routes remain thin. Where the bus goes once a day, it doesn't. Personally, I do not want to believe this when we start talking about personal matters, but indeed, in the area of public transport too, certain savings are planned for next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U318	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U319	Good manager! Good waitress! You were elected Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 23 November, so you have been in office for 15 days. You used to be stuck for a few 15 days. But you've been busy running the Committee on Monetary Affairs. As I understand it, most things were set up when you weren't there, but Erki Savisaar was. I ask [about] that the situation has already been relatively alarming on the electrical front the 15 days you [chairman of the Finance Commission] have been. Describe this atmosphere in the Commission if you have managed it. How calm it has been and how much it has been said about electricity and that it should do something, apart from all the bureaucratic that took place in the vote there. What's the atmosphere been like? Please describe the last 15 days.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U320	Thank you. The atmosphere was full of electricity, but in general the debate was still constructive. On certain issues, the majority was very scarce in the vote. But I would like to remind you that it is not worth overestimating the role of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The substantive debate will take place not only in the Commission but also in the Chamber before the second reading, it was quite thorough here. In this sense, I think that the lines of force were really known when I arrived at the Commission. When I got to know these protocols, I didn't get the impression that the ambassadors had any exchange of views. More or less it was known what the opinion of each individual Member of the Commission was, and in that sense we still reached decisions. The two sessions, which concerned the budget, lasted several hours and the decision was finally taken. As I introduced at the end of the presentation, today the draft is in the Chamber and the results of the vote are known from the minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U321	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U322	Honourable Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. My second question relates to the money from the roof. It is known that last year, when the Reform Party was in opposition, they fought against roofing money and did not support the current system. Now there have been alleged changes, and the entire roofing system has been designed to show the name of every ambassador behind the money distributed. However, we now know that, before the third reading, all names are essentially taken away and put to the Commission's proposals. So basically, it doesn't matter that much anymore. Plus, there is some hypocrisy here, because, for example, if the opposition parties at second reading have tabled certain amendments and they are voted down, then suddenly some coalition ambassador will bring them in the form of roof money and then they will find support. What matters then is not content, but which politician's hand is more generous. My question is: how intense was the debate on roofing money in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U323	Thank you. This claim that the names will disappear from the end, probably not because these proposals are registered in the system and can be consulted, however, there are names in it. Now, this debate was quite passionate. Jürgen Ligi suggested that, for example, his share of this amount not go to the regions but go directly to the state budget. But he did not do so by the deadline for the amendments, he wanted to formalise it as a Commission proposal, but it found rather lukewarm support in the Commission and did not go through. There were not many [yes]: three votes were in favour and six against, if I am not mistaken. However, in general, each specific proposal was not dealt with by the Commission. This table was available to everyone before the third reading. No questions, I don't know, I didn't come for a particular line. So in this sense, this redirection of unused investments was a major exciting issue, and there were no more of them in relation to this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U324	Siim Pohak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U325	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! It is a budget for cutting, shrinking, rural areas and even rural centres. At the same time, the price of electricity is making crazy records, other prices are also rising, people are impoverishing, inflation is rising. At the same time, the government coalition lacks real solutions. And this budget, given today's reality, lives like a parallel world. In this light, did the Commission not raise the question of how such a budget has come this far?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U326	Thank you. This was not directly the subject of the debate. Apparently it happened like this, that at first it was the first reading, then it was the second and now it's the third in the hall. And if, at third reading, the draft budget is supported in the Chamber, then it will be adopted. It's about this format. But it was not discussed by the Commission. This is quite common practice, and in other drafts it is similar.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U327	Looks like there's no more questions. Thanks to the waitress! We can now go to the negotiations. I would point out that only the representatives of the political groups can speak in the negotiations. The first to sign up is Jaanus Karilaid. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U328	Ladies and gentlemen, Before I focus on the state budget for 2022, I would like to acknowledge the efforts of the Estonian people and government in the situation of the COVID-19 pandemic. As a result of joint action, the spread of the corona virus and the burden on hospitals are declining. It is important to stress that we were able to overcome the crisis by keeping society and the economy as open as possible. These steps are also reflected in economic indicators. Estonia's economic growth was 13% in the second quarter and nearly 9% in the third quarter. With these indicators, we are in a good position in the European Union, which gives confidence to society. I am pleased to note that despite the difficult situation, we will be able to move forward with huge investments next year. A design contract has been concluded with the most modern medical campus in the Baltic States for the construction of Tallinn Hospital. Balanced regional development is supported by the establishment of important national cultural objects. Let's continue with the construction of four-way highways. We will continue with the construction of the Haapsalu railway, and we will move ahead with the construction of football halls. In addition, we have found ways to raise wages. The minimum wage for rescuers will rise by almost 12% next year. In 2023, we must continue to take even longer steps in wage increases. I cannot fail to mention the increase in the income of the elderly. In the coming year, the allowance for a single pensioner will rise to 200 euros and on 1 April, the average old-age pension will rise by 39 euros as a result of indexation: 591 euros. From 1 January 2023, the third extraordinary pension increase will take place and the average pension tax exemption will apply. Looking ahead, it can be said that in 2024 the average old-age pension should rise to EUR 690. So I suggest you, good ambassadors, vote in favour of the state budget. However, I will take this opportunity to stress that the prices of the sharply rising energy carriers and, to a large extent, the resulting price increases will force us to find further solutions in the near future. We need to find more resources to ease the rise in prices. The government must also give serious consideration to the principles of drawing up a country's budget strategy. The cuts made in spring are made in haste and are intrinsically inaccurate. The drafting of the state budget must become more flexible and more based on the reality of the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U329	Next, Helir-Valdor Seeder, please! Oh, not in the hall right now. [[A voice from the hall.]] No, I think he still wants to come. Don't we have anyone else who wants to speak first, maybe we can change the order? I'll take a three-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U330	Ladies and gentlemen, The sirs are back, we can finish the break, and we'll move on with the negotiations. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U331	Thank you. Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I'm so sorry, but it's all about the press. I was interviewing and I wasn't in the hall. I'm so sorry! But I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U332	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U333	As we know, budgets are often dealt with in such a way that opposition proposals are not taken into account very much. So is this time. And although the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs said that the 'roof money' was taken into account, I would remind the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs that this was not a proposal from political groups or ambassadors, it was a proposal from the Commission itself. So, unfortunately, the opposition's proposals were not taken into account. It is also rare for the budget to become worse in the course of the procedure. Unfortunately, this year it has to be recognised that this has happened to this budget because the Reform Party, together with the Centre Party, found strength and put its own roofing money in third reading for several million more during the procedure. But now for other, substantive things. First of all, it is unfortunate that the exceptional pension increase and the average pension tax exemption were not taken into account from 1 January 2022 and was postponed for a year, although the pension reform money is already released this year. Further, without a solution, the most acute problem for Estonian people within this budget is the price of electricity. Various legislative changes were not accepted during the procedure, no VAT reduction proposals, other measures that we proposed. So far, the government has found no substantive solution to the problem and it is alleged that it will discuss it in the future. But winter is a reality. At one point, we can reach a situation where electricity sellers can switch off a few consumers in mid-winter. Next, very many great words have been made about educated Estonia, educated people, about the transition to education in Estonian and everything else, but this budget does not offer solutions to it. The amendments tabled by the Fatherland, which concerned improving access to higher education, were also unfortunately not supported. The amendments tabled to alleviate the problem of teacher follow-up were also not supported, yet we feel that it is very important. The government says that this is one of the priorities, the Riigikogu has formed a support group. These vital proposals, which have also been put forward and desired by the Council of Rectors and which have been proposed by various teacher organisations, have unfortunately not been approved during the procedure. The result is that tomorrow we will probably see a demonstration of Estonian intellectuals in front of the house. Unfortunately, the proposals relating to the increase in salaries of the various target groups, workers in different sectors, given very high inflation, have also not been accepted. We have to realise that this is a real challenge and that some of the increases in the state budget, whether they are cultural workers, educational workers, social welfare workers, rescuers, policemen or anyone else, are below real inflation. They are below real inflation, and the goal of teachers' pay being 120% of the Estonian average is increasingly distant and not approaching. A separate question is that if the budget grows by more than EUR 1 billion, by more than EUR 1 billion! Then a few decades' cut is needed. Is that a sample cut? A few million cuts in the education of interest continued, support for local authorities, it is incomprehensible why this had to be done. County public transport routes are being cut. On the one hand, it is said that we allow free public transport so that people can move better. In fact, we are going this way of physically cutting down county public transport networks and actual routes. We limit the availability of public services outside Tallinn. The Police and Border Guard Board reported that, due to the cut-off plan, more than one billion budgets are growing, economic growth is high, almost record, revenue is more than forecast, and public services are no longer available at all days in the service centres of the county centres. Instead of five days, services are now provided for three days. Trash containers are collected on the edge of state roads, toilets are disposed of. "Let's do it!" in the country. Now, this is a demonstration of austerity for the rest of the world and a valuable experience sharing: let's do it, but let's get the toilets and the garbage containers off the highways. We have become so poor in Estonia. And this issue of governance is dealt with personally by the Prime Minister, instructing the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications to deal with toilets and landfills along state roads. Where have we come from budget cuts in a situation where the budget grows over a billion? In fact, it is incomprehensible what the priorities of the Reform Party and the Central Party government are. I don't understand them. Trimmed from there and taken from where you can't take it and put it where you don't need it. That is, in fact, the content of this budget. As I said at the outset, this budget did not, regrettably, improve during the procedure. It got worse. On top of that, what did you find out today? It turned out that there was no substantive debate after the second reading, as the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs acknowledged. There was just some sort of mechanical vote, but there was no substantive debate on the amendments proposed. Therefore, the Isamaa Group, being very constructive, putting forward a reasonable number of proposals, not taking breaks, and we have not implemented the obituary, expresses our sense of the draft budget in such a way that we will vote against it in the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U334	Thank you. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U335	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, Well, at least the opposition is united. I can only agree that the negotiation of drafts in the proceedings of the Riigikogu, the submission of amendments should lead to the adoption of the draft being better than the one submitted. But as the previous speaker pointed out, very rarely does it happen that things get worse during the proceedings. I'm talking about three perspectives now. There could be greater clarity in the proceedings. If we complain about the lack of transparency of the state budget, then the opportunity to ask questions, the committees to discuss matters, the amendments [should be there to be] more clarity in the budget. Regrettably, this has not happened. The slices were already discussed in the spring, it's over six months ago. However, in preparation for the third reading, the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs did not have any information about who was cutting what and where. Indeed, it is strange that wage increases included in the law and all that is being done for cuts are on the expense side. But what's not done, that list's kind of secret. So the Prime Minister also reads in the paper that trash cans and public toilets disappear. In fact, members of the Riigikogu should have this information, because how the Riigikogu can adopt a budget without knowing the consequences of its decision. It has not been possible to achieve greater clarity in the course of the procedure this time. Secondly, the fact that different parties, different people with their experience and background can study, drill, discuss and ask the budget should bring out errors. And really, if it seemed that the line "Hov education support for local governments" might not be important, we are taking it down, there is a need to save somewhere, if it turns out that it is indeed a regionally highly differentiated measure, the aim of which is that children in rural areas who have a longer land in their circles of interest, in areas where it is more difficult to find a teacher and where the local government budget is more tense, that it is not possible to pay a teacher a decent salary, then it is true that Värska Municipality will receive 14 times more interest education support for a child than Keila or [some other place]. We are not talking about the euro being the difference, we are talking about the difference over and over again. This is a very regionally differentiated measure, and now, ironically, a cut of 4 million, along with the government's message to the municipalities to find cover themselves, made the regionally differentiated measure amplifying, because now Värska had to make 14 times more effort than Keila had to cover this hole. So in this sense, even if there is a decision to cut back, then turn this same measure of seeking regional balance against the local authorities, it is simply a unscrupulous and vile move. So the type of errors that undermine Estonia's long-term development were not corrected during the procedure. And thirdly, there are also worthy proposals from the opposition, and they can be listened to. Unfortunately, the very good amendments, such as the raising of the subsistence limit made by the Social Democrats, were not supported. Indeed, we are thinking about the current situation of rising prices, that the limit of living has remained at EUR 150, that is to say, to carry out limited resources anyway. And raising the threshold of 20 euros in inflation is not too much for our country; it is rather a matter of goodwill and empathy. Indeed, even in the budget, despite the fact that the members of the government themselves say that, in the case of energy prices, you should turn to the municipalities, receive income support, then the estimated number and amount of beneficiaries in the budget, which will be taken into account, will decrease compared to the previous year. It doesn't make any sense. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U336	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U337	So, indeed, sensible suggestions were not heard. And what we cannot overlook is that neither the long-term development of Estonia comes from anywhere but our wisdom and our wise young people. So education, teachers' salaries, the possibility of differentiation of teachers' salaries, the difference in compensation, the equally very sensible amendment from the Fatherland and the Social Democrats, was not supported. Wage increases in other areas as well. People who have made and will continue to make efforts at the forefront in the face of the crisis, and whose contribution to work should be valued, have national targets to reach them over the next three years, with a monthly wage increase of EUR 200 per year. Hardly half a step can be taken. And that the most important instrument of the government, the budget, should guide us towards fulfilling Estonia's long-term goals, at least to a minimum, to meeting the priorities formulated by the government itself, in fact neither. All that is said about state reform, when we have fewer police officers in rural areas or when the doors of some public institutions are less open, it is not a state reform. Nothing gets better for a person, nor does action become more effective. The model of the functioning of the state will not change and there will be no long-term impact on expenditure, no structural change that would actually be desired by the reform of the state. So, in my opinion, as I have pointed out in previous readings, too much is being done for internal security, which has also played a major role in the crisis period and should be contributed to it. The cuts in internal security come at the expense of the security of all of us. Secondly, long-term development, as regards the financing of education, the increase in teachers' pay, and children's education of interest. And third, regional balancing. When random cuts are made, as we can see, to the weaker, it falls to the regions. These public toilets and waste bins are not here in the centre of Tallinn; they are still outside the city by the highways. The same way the offices whose opening hours are restricted in the case of the PBGB are outside Tallinn. Public transport or interurban transport, as well as children's education of interest. State resources will be used to leverage regional differences. Unfortunately, because we do not really understand what the consequences of this state budget are, because insufficient information has been provided during the procedure on, for example, cuts and their effects, the mistakes that have been made and the opposition's opinion, as well as sensible proposals concerning interest education, raising the level of subsistence, salary, educational expenditure, have not been heard, the Social Democrats cannot vote in favour of this budget either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U338	Thank you. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U339	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen! Listening here to the description of the coalition and opposition representatives from the budget, it is unfortunate that we are talking about two different budgets, but so it is. If you try to start with a positive note, it can be said that thanks to the pressure of the opposition, the pressure being maintained, one of the amendments of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, which proposed to increase the financing of the international passenger shipping support measure, has finally come in here indirectly, in order to keep this area and the sector. It's a positive note that this 7,7 million finally got to this row. And we can treat it as a bit of a job. Unfortunately, the Committee on Monetary Affairs voted on a proposal by the EKRE concerning the provision of additional funding for the training of medical staff, both nurses and carers. That is, of course, very regrettable. However, it has been heard in the media that perhaps the government and the coalition will listen to it and still allocate money to it, so that this area, which we have been under very strong pressure and shock over the last few years and before, can still be equipped with funding and training for the people we desperately need. And, of course, pay policy also needs to be reviewed. Now, when we talk about things that were not included in the budget, we take the field of the Ministry of the Interior as an example. We have probably read the headlines in the press saying that the country's redundancy plan is undermining internal security. It is said that there is a need to raise wages, but it must therefore be concentrated. Today it has also been said that the PBA has found a place to save the world through it, or not the world, but a budget to put service points in county centres two days a week or more. The message to the Estonian people from the government is that the PPA service points will go to a shorter time opening position in Paide, Raplas, Kuressaare, Jõgeval, Põlva, Võru, Valga and Viljandi. This is unacceptable because the obligation to go elsewhere for the people of Estonia is again imposed. We're dealing with eye damage. Or, for example, the title that a cut in the state's operating costs brings a wave of redundancy to the police and the tax administration. Once again, we're going after the people who actually guarantee our daily safety. In fact, it also ensures that taxes and money are paid into the state budget. Or, for example, a message from the press: The Rescue Board performs the task of reducing fire safety. This is certainly not the initiative of the Rescue and Rescue Board, it is because of the situation in which they were put. Let's get this program called "Crackers of Fire." It was decided to save EUR 600000 on the measure where the Rescue Board worked with local authorities and actually did these things: repair fireplaces and make people's lives safer. There was a measure that really benefited. In the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the coalition now felt that the EKRE proposal to add 1 million instead of 600,000 to this line was not worthy of support. However, somewhere on our desk, a proposal to raise RMK's dividend expectations came up to fund Rally Estonia. It is not a question of anyone rejecting funding or supporting Rally Estonia, which has been mentioned before. The question is the source of the cover and how it was brought to the table. Yeah, three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U340	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U341	Of course, Rally Estonia is such an event that gives relief to our entrepreneurs in the catering and accommodation sector as well as much more that it brings with it. But the way it was brought on the table is not rational and reasonable behavior. And from here we can move on to the Ministry of the Environment. The increase of RMK's dividend expectations was put on our table before the third reading in order to increase RMK's dividends by 2.5 million euros to finance Rally Estonia. Personally, it is unacceptable to me from the view that the current government has always talked about how they will save the world through the fact that RMK now has a lower dividend expectation and it is they who came and did it. In itself, I have always spoken against it and said that, in fact, RMK's cutting capacity has already been planned in the past and they are starting to decrease. Now, before the third reading, put on the table the fact that suddenly we support an event through it is a very unworthy behaviour. It must be acknowledged that a member of the coalition in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, who agreed that this was not a sensible approach, felt the same way. Or we could talk a little bit about the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Collecting bins from car parks, reducing or removing toilets from the road side. Referral of the previous speaker to the campaign "Let's do it!"which has been one of the great trademarks of Estonia, which all governments have considered necessary to support and has been regarded as Estonian Nokia, still gives a very lame impression of us and the government, when they come out and save the budget by the fact that families who move around Estonia with small children have to start pushing into gas stations, under the forest or next to random hedges somewhere. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Or the same Transport Department's services closed two days a week. Today, asking the Minister for Public Administration if there's been a calculation of this, how much it's gonna cost...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U342	Ladies and gentlemen, please keep it down in the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U343	Let Urmas tell his story, then I'll continue. Are you done, Urmas? Can I keep talking? Looks like it's okay. It's very easy to just shut down two days a week again some of the services that people need in county centers or attraction centers. On the question of whether anyone has taken into account how much it costs those people who have to start driving to the next place to get this service, which is the working time of the person who pays for the heating of this car, which is the footprint of this environment, no one has calculated it. Speaking of some sources where money could have been taken not to make some cuts, even the 20 million allocated to Tallinn City Hall is the place that should have been critically reviewed. Nothing would have happened to this building if it had been done a year or two later. So, ultimately, I would like to say that such a budget cannot be supported in any way by the EKRE, and we will be voting against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U344	Good fellows, more... Or are there more requests? Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U345	Before going to the vote, I would like to ask for a break of ten minutes. [[In the diner.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U346	I'm sorry, I want the microphone back to Jaanus Karilai. What kind of break do you want before the vote? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U347	I'm giving up my break because Jürgen wants to talk. [[In the diner.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U348	No, I asked if there were any other speeches, then Jaanus Karilaiu's speech, I gave it, I have not closed the negotiations. Riigikogu's speech chair, Jürgen Ligi, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U349	Thank you. I didn't have time to react to the button about the manager's shift. But let me be a little embarrassed about where the budget debate in this hall has fallen. This hall has begun to treat the budget as a fund and a limit, which is separated by the government, and the main problem is why so little. I listened and read a verbatim and I found a speech in which Dr. Hele Everaus said, "Hey, listen, these wonderful things all demand money, and you won't tell me where you're taking it." Now these speeches continue in the same style: why did you not support our proposal? If you look at where these shields are, the total volume, I don't know if there's 160 or 600 million, has been taken into account for the six million government reserves. Everyone kindly sets aside six million, 600 million or 160 million of free money from the government reserve. I don't think anyone even suggested adding up their own proposals. That's absurd, that's a downward trend. For Parliament, the first question must always be the general health of the budget. And the most important achievement of this budget is indeed that budget health has improved significantly, the structural deficit has fallen from 4.1% to 2.6%. And that's a real achievement. After that, there is nothing comparable to [neither] any form of jesting over the details. Why is the budget deficit important? Even because the economic situation is exactly the opposite of this budget, the economy is currently growing flat. At least the forecast according to which the budget was made is based on it. And you all want to increase costs, no one has talked about big strategic numbers. Nobody. It's depressing. If inflation is the issue now, please note that the source of inflation is also the budget deficit. If you are talking about inflation, the source of this is also the dismantling of the second pillar. This money, which you want to disperse exceptionally as if it were over-charged and extraordinary income, was indeed taken to the store. But it didn't clear up that big deficit. It went to the beauty service and the store. Ironically, a commercial bank wrote about this in its annual review that, see, we already had Christmas in September, people were able to buy gifts for themselves. And you are talking about economic recovery, and you are saying that money is free. All this is a future burden on the state and no extraordinary cost can be made at its expense, even because we still have 600 million structural deficits. And this isn't a joke. Covering sources. The previous speaker criticised it, so I will criticise it. Yeah, $6 million can't spend $600 million or 160 million. All the more so because it is for extraordinary needs and the government has a very small reserve this year. The macro situation. Indeed, inflation has accelerated sharply, which is one of the reasons why we must not forget the macro-image. The shortage of labour has become increasingly difficult, again, the budget deficit is fueling it. The OECD has given us a warning of overheating of the economy, no one is talking about it. No one has quoted the Board of Budgets or Eesti Pank, who warns: this deficit does not correspond to the economic situation and it must be summed up. If not next year, then next year's budget. Overreach. We have, as a result of energy prices, huge value added tax and we should use it for something, price control and know what for. First of all, purely technically, the forecasts are locked at the beginning of the autumn and no longer open. But it's not like that... More time, please. Three and a half minutes, please, just like EKRE did.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U350	I can't give you three and a half minutes of extra time, but you'll get three minutes of extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U351	Thanks for that, too. I mean, the overcharge... In fact, energy prices are holding back, firstly, economic growth, and the forecast is not based on this. If we start adjusting, we need to start correcting growth. And the other thing, of course, is that somehow it doesn't close this huge $600 million budget hole. There's no overcharge, so stop talking like that. But what the budget really is about is preferences, or should it? What the budget debate should be about: what is preferred to what, what is done at the expense of something, what is cost-effectiveness, sustainability. No one's talking about that. It's relatively awful that no one counts... I am, of course, talking above all about the opposition, which cannot be demanded of the coalition. But these choices, the budgetary choices of no one in this context, that we have limited resources and the budget size is limited. However, I would like to highlight a few things from the cost list. However, for the first time in Estonian education, we have a clear cost of 5 million. It's a structural change to highlight. The teachers' pay that you say, which does not change, the 7.5% extra, is quite a good result, but it has always been accompanied by internal redistributions. And from where there's more, of course, I would have wanted to talk to the government. After all, these general costs in education must be reduced at all times in order to increase the content of education. Defence costs 2,31% was a very good result in this budgetary situation. But it's awful absurd to criticize a cut as such. Why are there cuts, you're 600 million short here, and why are you even cutting the budget? I'm sorry! I actually agree with a number of details that I really should not have taken it from there. But you are not talking at all about what the real need for our roads and the road network is, which is within our reach, how much we can maintain, whether in the future situation, in the green turn, there is a four-line Estonian sustainable and meaningful no one is talking about it, but you are talking about toilets. The toilet position, indeed. We're about to go into over 160 million hobbies, and you're talking about some 4 million that have gotten into the central government's budget in an absurd way. It shouldn't be there at all, it's the activities of the local governments, and the sovereigns are very happy to allocate this money. The situation of the owners, unlike that of the central government, has improved in times of crisis. But the budget of our central government is what you are trying to rob and, like, force to give money to local governments, although even the National Audit Office wonders why you are doing this, it is in trouble. National defence would be like an orchestra and chaplains in this hall. Well, I'm sorry, the Commander of the Defence Forces is justified in making such choices, and I don't see any reason for us to talk about it all the time. That's $2 million. I agree, I'm the one who's criticizing that we're putting on at the last minute without a budget, without a description of the source, at the last minute. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I didn't vote for it...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U352	Dear waitress, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U353	...and not by the rooftop money. But thank you! We're out of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U354	Thank you. That concludes the negotiations. Let us now go to the examination of the 464 amendments to the draft. Amendment 1, received from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, position: take full account. Amendment 2, from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 3, from the lead committee, position: take full account. Amendment 4 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the position of the commission is not taken into account and is not to be voted on pursuant to § 120 (5) of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Homes. [[It's ringing the bell.]] Amendment 5, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, the position of the commission is disregarded and it is also not to be voted on pursuant to § 120 (5) of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Homes. Amendment 6, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, the position of the commission is not taken into account, and it is also not to be voted on under our Home and Working Procedures Act. Amendment 7, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, position of the commission: take full account. Amendment 8, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, position of the commission: to be taken into account in part. Amendment 9, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the position of the commission is not taken into account and it is not to be voted on under our Home and Working Procedures Act. Amendment 10, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the position of the commission is not taken into account, and it is not to be voted on under the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Good fellows, I'm asking for silence in the hall. Thank you. Amendment 11, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the position of the commission is not taken into account; this amendment is not to be voted on. Amendment 12, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the position of the commission is not taken into account, nor is it to be voted on. Amendment 13, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the position of the commission is not taken into account; this amendment, too, is not to be voted on. Amendment 14, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the position of the commission is not taken into account and this amendment, too, is not to be voted on. Amendment 15, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, the position of the commission is not taken into account and this amendment is not to be voted on either. Amendment 16, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, the position of the commission is not taken into account and this amendment is not to be voted on. Amendment 17, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, the position of the commission is to be disregarded and the amendment is not to be voted on. Amendment 18, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, the position of the commission is not taken into account and this amendment is not to be voted on. Amendment 19, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, the position of the commission is not taken into account and this amendment, too, is not to be voted on. Amendment 20, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, the position of the commission is not taken into account, the amendment is not to be voted on. Amendment 21, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the position of the commission is not taken into account, the amendment is not to be voted on. Amendment 22, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the position of the commission is not taken into account, the amendment is not to be voted on. Amendment 23, tabled by the lead committee, position: take full account. Amendment 24, tabled by the lead committee, position: take full account. Amendment 25, tabled by the lead committee, position: take full account. Amendment 26, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, the position of the commission is not taken into account, is not to be voted on. Amendment 27, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, the position of the commission is not taken into account, it is not to be voted on. Amendment 28, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, the position of the commission is not taken into account, it is not to be voted on. Amendment 29 has been tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, the position of the commission is not taken into account and it is not to be voted on. Amendment 30, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the position of the commission is not taken into account, it is not to be voted on. Amendment 31, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the position of the commission is not taken into account, it is not to be voted on. Amendment 32, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the position of the commission is not taken into account, it is not to be voted on. Amendment 33, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the position of the commission is not taken into account and it is not to be voted on. Amendment 34, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the position of the commission is not taken into account and it is not to be voted on. Amendment 35, tabled by the Steering Committee, takes full account of the position. Amendment 36, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, the position of the commission is not taken into account and it is not to be voted on. Amendment 37, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, after discussions in the Steering Committee: not to be taken into account and not to be voted on. Amendment 38, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the position of the commission is not taken into account and it is not to be voted on. Amendment 39, tabled by the lead committee, takes full account of the position. Amendment 40, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, the position of the commission is not taken into account and it is not to be voted on. Amendment 41, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the position of the commission is not taken into account and it is not to be voted on. Amendment 42, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the position of the commission is not taken into account and it is not to be voted on. Amendment 43, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the position of the commission is not taken into account and it is not to be voted on. Amendment 44, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the position of the commission is not taken into account and, apart from discussions, it is not to be voted on. Amendment 44, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the position of the commission is not taken into account and it is not to be voted on. Amendment 45, we have arrived there, it has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the position of the commission is to be disregarded and it is not to be voted on. Amendment 46, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the position of the commission is not taken into account and it is not to be voted on. Dear colleagues, Amendment 47 has been tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, the position of the commission is not taken into account and it is not to be voted on. Amendment 48 has been tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, the position of the commission: not to be taken into account and not to be voted on either. Amendment 49 has been tabled by the Group of the Fatherland; the position of the commission is not taken into account and it is not to be voted on. Amendment 50 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account and it is not to be voted on. Amendment 51 has again been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account and it is not to be voted on. Amendment 52, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the position of the commission is not taken into account and it is not to be voted on either. Amendment 53 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, after discussions in the lead committee, the position is not taken into account and it is not to be voted on. Amendment 53, to which we are... Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U355	Thank you. I could have put my hand on. I ask that the Commission's opinion is not voted on, but what is the speaker's opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U356	Thank you. Due to the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, the President of the sitting of the Riigikogu does not express his personal opinion in these amendments. If there's a vote, it's a vote. Amendment 54 has been tabled by the commission and the position is fully taken into account. Dear colleagues, thank you, we have examined the amendments. The final vote must now be taken, so let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Dear colleagues, I will put to the final vote the draft state budget law of 2022, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 464. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U357	With the result of 59 votes against, 37 abstentions, the draft National Budget Act 2022 initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as 464 laws. That concludes the 12th item. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U358	Let's move on to agenda item 13. This is the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the United Kingdom Expedition Forces" 444. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Madis Milling, member of the National Defence Committee. Please! Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for silence in this House. We respect the waitress and those who want to hear the presentation. Mr. Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U359	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand your emotions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U360	I'm so sorry, good waitress! A procedural question. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U361	Thank you. I saw that you had difficulty ensuring order in the hall after the adoption of the state budget. The coalition ambassadors were excited, clapping. Perhaps it should have taken five minutes to recess, then they could have congratulated one of the others, this humour would have gone by, and we could have moved forward calmly with the agenda. But you've already gone to the next item on the agenda, there's nothing to do now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U362	Thank you. I saw that you even made a little applause, so I'm not going to tell the difference here, who's in the coalition, who's in the opposition. But thank you, it's a very good idea anyway. Thank you so much for coming to help me! Mr. Milling, please! Let's keep going.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U363	Thank you very much. To my good colleague, Helir-Valdor, I can tell you that I have no problem with being in front of a troubled audience. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] But then let's go to the bill. The draft was submitted by the Government of the Republic on 27 September. The first reading took place on 10 November. No amendments were tabled to the draft by 10.30 a.m. on 22 November. Nor did the draft need any linguistic clarification of the commission. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before sending it to second reading, including at its meetings on 22 November and 26 December. At its meeting on 6 December, the Committee on National Defence (consensus) approved the draft text and the explanatory memorandum at second reading. The draft confirms Estonia's readiness to contribute to the United Kingdom Joint Expedition Force in 2022, as this year may be the case with up to 24 Defence Forces. Procedural decisions. At its meeting on 22 November, the National Defence Committee (consensus) decided to submit the draft to second reading on the Riigikogu agenda, including. December 8th. In addition, at its meeting on 22 November (consensus), the National Defence Committee decided to propose to the Riigikogu to stop the second reading of the draft and, based on § 109 of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, to put the draft to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U364	Good waitress, thank you. There are no questions. Thank you. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. Let us now go to the examination of the amendments. These have not been received on draft 444, so we will not examine the amendments. The commission has proposed a final vote. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Good fellows, I'll put a draft to the final vote on 444. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U365	With the result of 71 votes against and no abstentions, the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the United Kingdom expedition forces" submitted by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as 444 decisions. Our 13th item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U366	Let's move on to item 14. Second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the European Union Training Mission in Mozambique." It is a great honour to ask for a speech chair in the Riigikogu, none other than the Chairman of the National Defence Committee Enn Eesmaa. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U367	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. With the draft 445 we wish to contribute to the Council of the European Union on 12 July 2021 with up to five Estonian Defence Forces in 2022. a European Union Training Mission in Mozambique established by the Decision. By participating in the new training mission, Estonia fulfils its allied responsibilities arising from its membership of the European Union, increases Estonia's external visibility and develops cooperation with the strategic allies of the southern wing of the European Union. The Government of the Republic submitted the draft, including on 27 September, and its first reading took place in our committee on 10 November. No amendments to the draft were tabled by 10.30 a.m. on 22 November. On the advice of the language editor, the National Defence Committee made one linguistic and one technical specification in the draft, which was supported by the officials of the Ministry of Defence representing the author. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before the second reading, including at its meeting on 22 November and 6 December. At its meeting on 6 December, the Commission (consensus) approved the text of the draft second reading and the explanatory memorandum. The consensual procedural decisions of the National Defence Committee are such. We decided by consensus of the National Defence Committee to put the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu, including by 8 December. In addition, at its meeting on 22 November (consensus), the National Defence Committee decided to propose to the Riigikogu to stop the second reading of the draft and, based on § 109 of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, to put the draft to the final vote. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U368	Good waitress, thank you. There are no questions. Thank you. Do you want to open negotiations? It is not recommended to open negotiations, no amendments have been tabled and the position of the lead committee is to hold a final vote on the draft. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put a draft decision to the final vote on 445. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U369	With the result of 55 votes against and no abstentions, the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the European Union Training Mission in Mozambique" of the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a decision of 445 and the 14th item has been closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U370	Let's move on to agenda item 15. This is the second reading of the draft of the Riigikogu's decision "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international military operation of the Estonian state in the execution of its international obligations" by the Government of the Republic. Please ask Ants Laaneots, Member of the National Defence Commission, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U371	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was submitted by the Government of the Republic on 27 September this year and its first reading took place on 10 November of the same year. No amendments to the draft were tabled by the deadline of 22 November at 10.30 a.m. Nor did the draft need any linguistic clarification of the commission. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before the second reading, including at its meeting on 22 November and 6 December. At its meeting on 6 December, the Committee on National Defence (consensus) approved the draft text and the explanatory memorandum at second reading. The draft confirms Estonia's willingness to contribute to the international military operation Inherent Resolve in 2022, which would sound in Estonian "natural determination" with up to ten members of the Defence Forces. Inherent Resolve will focus on supporting stabilisation in Iraq and Syria and will support the Iraqi Government in the field of security. In order to support the training of Iraqi security forces, close cooperation shall be maintained with NATO and the Iraqi Government. Participation in the US-led will coalition supports Estonian and US defence and security cooperation and gives the Defence Forces an important operational output. The maximum number of ten men of the Defence Forces laid down in the draft allows Estonia to contribute further and flexibly to the operation when it becomes necessary. The draft is now subject to consensual procedural decisions of the National Defence Committee. At its meeting on 22 November, the National Defence Committee decided to submit a draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu, including by 8 December. In addition, at its meeting on 22 November (consensus), the National Defence Committee decided to propose to the Riigikogu to stop the second reading of the draft and, based on § 109 of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, to put the draft to the final vote. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U372	Good waitress, thank you for your very thorough presentation. There are no questions for you. Thank you. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. No amendments have been tabled to draft 446 [s], so we can go to the final vote. Dear colleagues, I will put to the final vote a draft decision of 446. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U373	With the result of 67 votes against and no abstentions, the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the international military operation Inherent Resolve" of 446 has been adopted as a decision and the 15th item of the agenda has been closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U374	Let us move on to agenda item 16. This is the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation's mission in Iraq." I would like to ask Heiki Hepner, member of the National Defence Committee, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U375	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was submitted by the Government of the Republic on 27 September this year and its first reading took place on 10 November of the same year. No amendments to the draft were tabled by 10.30 a.m. on 22 November. Nor did the draft need any linguistic clarification of the commission. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before the second reading, including on 22 November and 6 December. At its meeting on 6 December, the Commission adopted by consensus a draft text and an explanatory memorandum at second reading. The draft confirms Estonia's readiness to continue contributing to the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation mission in Iraq in 2022. Compared to this year, when the Defence League Infantry Group providing defence services for six months in Baghdad was one-off, Estonia's contribution to the operation will be significantly reduced in 2022, as it is proposed to reduce the maximum level of the Defence Forces personnel on this mission to five members of the Defence Forces. The activities of the NMI (NATO mission in Iraq) NATO's non-combat training and counselling mission are directed at the threats from the southern direction of the alliance. The NMI will help Iraq build more effective security structures to increase their capacity in the fight against terrorism, to prevent ISIL's return and to stabilise the country. Since 2021, guidance and training at the leading level of Iraqi security authorities and training institutions will also be carried out. The draft is now subject to consensual procedural decisions of the National Defence Committee. At its meeting on 22 November 2021, the National Defence Committee (consensus) decided to put a draft for reading the text on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu, including by 8 December. In addition, at its meeting on 22 November (consensus), the Commission decided to invite the Riigikogu to conclude the second reading of the draft and, based on § 109 of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, to put the draft to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U376	Thank you, good waitress, for an excellent presentation. There's a question for you. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U377	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. I noticed that this mission has expanded into security agencies and so on, but I couldn't fix for myself how long this mission would take. Was it also discussed in the Commission that we may have to extend it again? And another question: how many men and/or women do we have on this mission?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U378	Well, the new mission is up to five, but what's now up to 40 people. This is now the consent of the Riigikogu for next year, so I believe that if we need to extend it for some reason, we can come back to this Chamber. This is now the only NATO mission in which Estonia participates, and it is certainly a flagship mission in this sense. I believe that, as a NATO member, we have certainly fulfilled our obligations with honour and pride, and I believe that we can continue to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U379	Good waitress, one more question for you. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U380	Thank you, Mr President. In your answer to me, at least three times you referred to the fact that you believe. However, I was interested in the government's position as to how long this mission would be, and whether the government considered that it might be necessary to come to Parliament again on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U381	That's what I can't tell you exactly what the government thinks. And that is also something we have not specifically discussed in the sitting. But I will read out the first point of the draft decision: "The deadline for the use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the international obligations of the Estonian State on the mission of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation in Iraq laid down in the Riigikogu decision of 7 December 2020 on the extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the execution of the international obligations of the Estonian State on the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation mission in Iraq until 31 December 2022 and to reduce the ceiling of the Defence Forces personnel on this mission to five Defence Forces. " Maybe until the end of next year. If it turns out that it is also needed in 2023, we can, I believe, extend it once more during its membership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U382	Waitress, thank you. No further questions. Thank you. Dear colleagues, now is the opportunity to open negotiations. Members of the Riigikogu, representatives of committees and political groups may speak. As always five minutes from the speaker, an extra time of three, a speech of two, so please, I look forward to taking an active part. But since there are no requests to speak, there is no way to open negotiations, so I will not open them. No amendments have been tabled on draft 447, so let us go to the final vote. Dear colleagues, I will put draft 447 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U383	With the result of 63 votes against and no abstentions, the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian State on the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation mission in Iraq" submitted by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as 447 decisions. Our 16th item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U384	Let's move on to item 17. This is the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian State on the European Union military mission EUNAVFOR Med/Irini" submitted by the Government of the Republic. I ask Alar Laneman, member of the National Defence Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U385	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft was also on 10 November. The deadline for submitting amendments, including 22 November at 10.30 a.m., did not include any amendments submitted to the draft from outside the commission. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading, including at its meeting on 22 November and 6 December. At its meeting on 6 December, the National Defence Committee adopted by consensus the draft text and the explanatory memorandum at second reading. Amendment. As in the previous year, the Committee on National Defence tabled an amendment to the draft as a lead committee, according to which, in point 2 of the draft, the word 'posting' is replaced by 'arrival'. In particular, the amendment concerns the harmonisation of the text of the draft text with the other draft mission texts. There is a time difference between the wording of point 2 of the draft act so far, as it may take several days from dispatch to arrival, i.e. until arrival. The officials of the Ministry of Defence representing the author of the draft act supported this amendment. The main objective of the mission is the implementation of the UN arms embargo on Libya and the prevention of illegal oil exports from Libya, as well as training and reconstruction of Libyan border guards and naval forces. The mission also deals with the prevention of trafficking in human beings. 24 European Union countries contribute to the mission. Procedural decisions and proposals. At its meeting (consensus) on 22 November, the National Defence Committee decided to propose to the Riigikogu to terminate the second reading of the draft and, based on § 109 of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, to put the draft to the final vote. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U386	Thank you, good waitress. There's a question for you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U387	Good manager! Good waitress! I did not hear well, but, as I understand it, the only debate was on one word. What was that word? Was it "arrival" or what...? Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U388	Thank you, good questioner! It was a word that used to be "dispatch," and a new word is "arrival." This is related to the need for rotation in the mission area, for example, to have two formations of some time at the same time, for transfer and reception.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U389	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U390	Thank you. Honourable waitress! My question is broader, and it concerns the call of the Minister of Defence of Ukraine of 5 December, Mr Reznikov, for military support for Ukraine's freedom outside NATO, in the current situation where the war is knocking on Ukraine's borders. Did the representatives of the Ministry of Defence also provide any information as to whether Estonia has received these requests? What is the position of the Estonian government regarding Estonia's assistance in a possible military crisis and also Estonia's position to act together with our major allies?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U391	Thank you. The subject is extremely important, but we did not go that far on this issue. But I hope that these discussions will continue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U392	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? They want to open negotiations. I'm opening negotiations. Please join the Riigikogu Chair Urmas Reinsalu. Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U393	Honourable representative of the people! The war is knocking on the door of Europe. In this situation, it is undoubtedly fair to say that Russia's aggression in Ukraine has not stopped. Over 13,000 people have died and we are facing one of the most serious and greatest security crises in Europe today, the 21st century. Ukraine needs our support, unambiguously. Therefore, I think it is important that Parliament should hold an emergency debate and debate on security without delay. This statement, made last week by Sergei Lavrov and repeated at yesterday's Internet meeting by Vladimir Putin to his American brother-in-law, that a policy of spheres of influence should be established in Europe, first and foremost formally, so that the Western countries give guarantees in the event of NATO's enlargement to the east, must be strongly and unequivocally condemned. We cannot remain silent here; we must give the highest level of public representation a negative assessment. Secondly, I referred to the statement by the Ukrainian Minister for Defence on 5 December, which called, of course, for the largest NATO partner countries to be prepared to contribute further to Ukraine's military assistance on the basis of bilateral agreements. His particular reference specifically concerned the Anglo-American countries, Canada, the United Kingdom and the United States. Estonia must also, in the first place, follow the principle that we are prepared to offer additional assistance to Ukraine. Therefore, I think it is important to find out what the clear and unambiguous political line of our government is. I encourage the government to be active here, not passive, and to be prepared to provide this assistance itself. Undoubtedly, the help of a small country like us is above all a symbol, but freedom as a symbol is not the most expensive thing we have to stand for. We certainly need to make an unequivocal appeal, along with the other countries of the eastern wing of NATO, to the new German government that the Nord Stream 2 project, in the current situation, in a security vacuum on the European territory, cannot be an arbitrage issue. This project must be stopped. Possible additional sanctions must also be applied, either way, as a deterrent to Moscow in a situation where Moscow has failed to comply with the Minsk agreements. Russia actively strives on each front, using leverage operations, energy weapons, threat tactics, and possibly the use of direct military force as additional pressure to escalate the situation. The West must be prepared to escalate events and Estonia, as a Western border country, has a duty to act on our own security interests and on our broader understanding of freedom and the protection of free peoples. I don't see this handwriting right now, clearly active international handwriting. All the more so, I recall that Estonia is the only member of the UN Security Council elected from Eastern Europe, indeed, for the last few weeks. So I call for a security debate in Parliament so that, alongside all the exotic missions in which we contribute, we also look at the state of the full-scale military crisis in Europe. There's no point in creating illusions for yourself. When a full-scale military attack begins, on the basis of published plans, there is a high likelihood that it will also be carried across Ukraine's borders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U394	Thank you very much, good waitress. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. One amendment to draft 448 has been received from the lead committee, which is Amendment 1. Thank you. We have examined the amendments. The position of the lead committee is also to carry out the final vote on draft 448. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 448 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U395	With the result of 66 votes against and no abstentions, the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian State on the European Union military mission EUNAVFOR Med/Irin" has been adopted as 448 and the 17th item has been closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U396	Let's move on to item 18. This is the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the readiness units of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation." It is a great honour to welcome Tiiu Aro, a member of the National Defence Committee, already in the Riigikogu Chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U397	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft under discussion was submitted by the Government of the Republic on 27 September. The first reading took place on 10 November, with no amendments submitted to the draft by 10.30 a.m. on 22 November, nor did it require any linguistic clarification of the draft. The decision also provides the basis for contributing to Estonia's reaction forces in 2022 with a mine hunter. On 23 November, the members of the National Defence Commission and the Committee on Foreign Affairs visited the navy and mine hunter Admiral Cowan, from which demolition took place at sea. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Listen carefully! The high professionalism of the marines was impressive for the members of the Commission. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before the second reading at its meeting on 22 November and also on 6 December. At its meeting on 6 December, the Committee on National Defence unanimously approved the text of the second reading and the explanatory memorandum. Purpose of the draft: NATO's response forces are also an important tool for the rapid launch of NATO's collective self-defence operations, if necessary, so participation in this is also directly related to Estonia's security. Consensual procedural decisions and proposals of the National Defence Committee. At its meeting on 22 November, the National Defence Committee decided unanimously to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 8 December. In addition, at the same session, the committee decided to propose to the Riigikogu to stop the second reading of the draft and, based on § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, to put the draft to the final vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U398	Waitress, thank you. There are no questions for you. Thank you. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. No amendments have been tabled. We will begin the preparation of the final vote on the draft 449. I will put draft 449 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U399	With the result of 60 votes against and no abstentions, the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the readiness units of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation" submitted by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as 449 decisions. Our 18th item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U400	Let's move on to item 19. This is the second reading of the draft of the Riigikogu's decision "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the European Union Training Mission and the United Nations Peace Mission in Mali." Please contact Jaak Juske, Member of the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U401	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! With this draft, we are discussing Estonia's participation in two missions in Mali, Africa. According to the draft, Estonia will continue to contribute to the European Union training mission with up to 10 members of the Defence Forces next year and to the UN peace-building mission in the Republic of Mali with up to five members of the Defence Forces. As with previous drafts, the Government of the Republic submitted this draft. a on September 27, 2004. No amendments to the draft were received by the deadline. At its meeting on 6 December, the National Defence Committee unanimously approved the text of the second reading together with an explanatory memorandum. Language clarifications. On the recommendation of the editor of the language and of the Secretary-General of the National Defence Commission, the National Defence Committee made some technical and linguistic clarifications in paragraph 1. In addition, on the recommendation of the linguistic editor, the National Defence Commission harmonised the wording of point 2 of the draft, aligning it with point 1 of the draft and adding the word "Defence Forces." The drafters from the Ministry of Defence have agreed to these linguistic specifications and corrections. The text of the draft text was translated into linguistic and technical specifications and underlined there. As Mali's mission area has also expanded to neighbouring Niger and Burkina Faso, a discussion arose as to whether these countries should bring the title of the draft. Following the debate, the Committee on National Defence decided that they would not complement the title of the draft by adding Niger and Burkina Faso, as the enlargement of the European Union Training Mission is set out in point 1 of the draft. Furthermore, the title of the draft would have become too long and cumbersome because the words "extend" and "extend" have different meanings. However, in the next draft extension of the missions, the National Defence Committee recommends that the title of the draft be formulated in one year's time in such a way that these new operational areas are included in the title as well. Procedural proposals. At its meeting on 22 November (consensus), the National Defence Committee decided to submit a draft for the second reading today. In consensus, it was also decided to propose to the Riigikogu to stop the second reading of the draft and, on the basis of our Home and Working Procedures Act, to put the draft to a final vote. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U402	Thank you, good waitress. You have at least one question. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U403	Good manager! Good waitress! Did I get it right that there was a complete consensus in the National Defence Committee in the case of the Mali operation, like in the cemetery?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U404	I do not know if there is such a consensus in the cemetery, but the National Defence Committee really agreed on this particular draft of the Malian missions and reached a consensus. We are addressing Mali's participation in missions today, at least in another draft, so that Mali is affected by a number of today's drafts.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U405	Good waitress, no more questions. Thank you. I open negotiations and ask the Riigikogu for a speech chair in Leo Kunnas.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U406	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, My speech now concerns all of our operations in Mali, perhaps I will not make two separate speeches. Maybe in Mali we have a total operation, two under this bill and one under the next 452. Every operation always has its pros and cons. What has happened in Mali in the last year? In May of this year, Colonel Goita committed a military coup. Maybe Mali doesn't have a legitimate government anymore. For all these operations where we have supported the legitimate governments of a country, such as Iraq and Afghanistan, the centre of gravity has always been one strong and reliable, or not too corrupt, local government. And if we haven't been able to win these operations or wars anywhere, that's the problem. In Mali, the problem is now much wider, or there is no legitimate government at all. We also have no certainty as to whether or not power will be handed over to the civilian government in February next year, as planned. We do not know what the relationship between this government's policy and its government and its policy towards Russia will be. Clearly, negative arguments have emerged here. Therefore, after long consideration, the Conservative People's Party of Estonia has decided that we cannot support any more operations in Mali, precisely because of these circumstances. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U407	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Peeter Ernitsa.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U408	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not a warrior, so maybe I can talk a little bit more. Yes, what Mr Leo said is so. Mali is, of course, a much bigger country than we are, but the situation is really messier there. At last reading, we discussed Wagner's mercenaries' potential or real presence or plans. Following this literature, it can be said that these thoughts are not lost. Negotiations and discussions with the Emissaries associated with Wagner have been ongoing. There has been talk about how much Malian authorities will be paying for this mission, but yes, with the authorities, it is not the best way to pay for the concessions from the mines. The last information I've read is that the mines that Wagner's boys have been offered, rather to their representatives, have not been too apt, not very delicious. So what's going on in Mali? Mali is quite strongly involved in Russia. During August, 2020, last year, most of these putchis were black, but they spoke Russian. Mali's leader, Maïga, even received his doctorate in Moscow. So Russia's influence is great there. But the same, this Kokalla Maïga, doctor who could, figuratively speaking, be a colleague of our former colleague, Andres Sut, because he has been the Minister of Digital Economy. So there are no uneducated Negroes who rule there in Bamako. But he has said very well about the situation in Mali. What's the quote again? About the way that the US and the European Union are like elephants fighting each other. Mali is, yes, the country where elephants live, they're not just in the zoo. And the quote follows: We here, i.e. Mali, are like grass under the feet of these fighting elephants. Now, if you come to the missions in Mali that we are discussing today, when we get involved with the one elephant that fights the other elephant, I don't know if that's the smartest thing to do. And it's not about the existence of Wagner's mercenaries, but the Malian leaders have also said so... Yes, indeed, France, the European Union and many have offended. I was here at first reading asking how are those Wagner boys. The next day, the French Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence met Russian colleagues in Paris, where the same things were probably discussed. Mali's leaders have also said that we do not like the involvement of the European Union and France in Mali's issues. If the Malian leaders want to sign some kind of treaty for defence or training, it's our business, a question of sovereignty. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U409	Good waitress, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U410	Yeah. This is a question of sovereignty, and we will do what we want, the leaders of sovereign Mali. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U411	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. No amendments have been tabled on draft 450, so we will start preparing the final vote. I'll put to the final vote, good colleagues, draft 450. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U412	With the result of 46 votes against and 16 abstentions, the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the European Union Training Mission and the United Nations Peace Mission in Mali" has been adopted as 450 decisions. Our 19th item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U413	Let's move on to item 20. This is the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the international obligations of the Estonian state in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria." I ask Mati Raidma, Member of the National Defence Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U414	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] The first reading of the draft was completed on 10 November. No amendments were tabled by 10.30 a.m. on 22 November. The commission did not make any linguistic corrections to the draft. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before sending it to second reading, including at its meeting on 22 November and 6 December. At its last meeting, the National Defence Committee unanimously approved the draft text and the explanatory memorandum at second reading. The UNTSO mission, as set out in the draft, started already in 1948. As a member of the United Nations, Estonia contributes to peace in crisis regions. At its meeting of 22 November (consensus) mentioned above, the National Defence Committee decided to include the draft on the agenda of today's sitting of the Riigikogu and to propose to the Riigikogu to terminate the second reading of the draft and, based on § 109 of the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, to put the draft to the final vote. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U415	Good waitress, thank you for this fine presentation. You have at least one question. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U416	Thank you, Mr President. Good Mati, I am sorry that my question does not specifically apply to this mission, but I think that the issue of protecting the external borders of the European Union is an important issue. There are military missions and there are rescue missions. We know that Estonia has gone to help Poland with 60 men, a reservist, and we also know that there are police units in Lithuania. Maybe you can comment on the difference between these missions? Why are we not discussing such a mission, when we are talking, for example, in the context of the Belarusian border, migration, the population migration crisis in this context? Because there, in fact, in the same way, these men and women are in some cases putting their lives at risk, and we are intervening there with public resources and the assets of the Estonian state in order to ensure our well-being and protection.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U417	Thank you very much for the very substantive question. The above list also includes the form of the mission that I have just presented to you. You didn't mention it. Maybe a peacekeeping mission, where defence forces without weapons and blue helmets are conducting an observation mission. But, unfortunately, I would really like to be stuck in our regulation and format. These important issues that you raised were already under discussion at the last National Defence Committee meeting, and we are dealing with this in a broad sense. So, is the map of the various missions of our Defence Forces in today's turbulence security situation the same as it was years and years ago when the lawroom was made, or do we need to look at it and update it? So, in the specific answer, I say that this process is in progress.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U418	Thank you, good waitress. There is at least one more question. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U419	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You've experienced national defence issues and, I know, you've been to several countries to assist as the former Head of the Rescue Board. At the moment, I suppose this is the case, do you state that the military in active service have also been sent to help the Poles in connection with border events? How should we deal with this? We send active troops on missions to different countries by decision of the Riigikogu. What is the case with active troops sent to Poland? Is this not a mission, is this a drill or how it should be dealt with legally? And what should be the role of Parliament in the decisions taken by the executive?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U420	Thank you very much. Your question began with the word 'confirm', which would require yes or no, but ended with the fact that there is no way to say yes or no, perhaps it ended with the question 'How?'. However, it must be said, once again, that this question comes out of the scope of the current issue. The indirect response was contained in the previous response. I don't know how to make connections with this mission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U421	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U422	Yeah, thanks again! I am simply asking to be understood as a Member of Parliament. Do the reserve forces in Poland actually have the same legal guarantees as those we send on missions on the basis of the decision of the Riigikogu? Are they treated equally?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U423	Thank you very much. Poland is not included in the list of countries in this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U424	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? No, I don't. No amendments have been tabled to draft 451, so we can go to the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 451 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U425	With the result of 61 votes against and no abstentions, the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, entitled "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the international obligations of the Estonian state in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria," has been adopted as a decision of 451 and the 20th agenda item has also been closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U426	Let's move on to item 21. This is the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international duties of the Estonian State in the military operation led by France in the target unit Takuba Mali and Niger." I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Leo Kunnas, Vice-Chairman of the National Defence Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U427	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft was completed on 10 November. No amendments were tabled to the draft by 10.30 a.m. on 22 November. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading, including at its meeting on 22 November and 6 December. At its meeting on 6 December, the National Defence Committee adopted by consensus the draft text and the explanatory memorandum at second reading. Now the amendment and linguistic clarifications. The Committee on National Defence tabled one amendment to the draft as the commission of directors. Namely, the title of the original text of the draft text was referred to in the title of the decision of the current Riigikogu and not to the name. However, it is important to refer to the name of the military operation. It is not appropriate to put long headlines on the prefix, and the use of brackets is already exceptional. In the light of the observation made by the editor of the language, the word "managed" has been deleted from point 1 of the draft text as it is not mentioned in the title of the decision of the Riigikogu of 7 September 2020. The amendment to the text of the bill and the linguistic specifications are underlined. The officials of the Ministry of Defence representing the author of the draft act supported the amendment and linguistic clarification proposed by the National Defence Committee. I would like to remind you that on the basis of the draft, the continuation of the participation of the unit of the Estonian Defence Forces of up to 75 members, with the infantry team, support element and staff officers, will be decided on the basis of the French-led military operation in Barkhane Mali instead of the operation in Takuba Mali and Niger. In reality, Estonian Defence Forces are operating in the target unit Takuba within the framework of Operation Barkhane on the basis of the current mandate. Perhaps it is also important to mention that the Estonian Defence Forces will be granted immunity, i.e. immunity, the right to possess and carry weapons and the regulations of liability in the event of damage, as a result of the agreement on the status of forces concluded between the Estonian Government and the Malian Government. And a procedural decision of the National Defence Commission. At its meeting on 22 November 2021 (consensus), the National Defence Committee decided to propose to the Riigikogu to terminate the second reading and, based on § 109 of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, to put the draft to the final vote. That's all. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U428	Thank you, waitress. There's a question for you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U429	Good manager! Good waitress! I have not noticed this in the discussions on similar missions in previous years, but now it seems that the discussions are primarily on the exchange of words or on the titles, whether they are long or short, etc. Is this some kind of new trend in the National Defence Committee right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U430	This is not a new trend, in the sense that, both in the large Chamber and in the Commission, we have already discussed these substantive matters in previous years and this year at first reading. You too had a number of very important questions, all of which I tried to answer as well as I could. So these discussions, in fact, we have already been through during the first reading. And all those serious questions about this operation actually came up. Perhaps the same reasons that I made in my speech before are important. During this year, the situation in Mali has changed a lot, and it all came out here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U431	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U432	Thank you, Mr President. Good Leo! Really, Mali's situation has been complicated. There has been a need to change the location of the operation, the situation is relatively tense. Why don't you shed some more light on this immunity question, what exactly does that mean?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U433	Yeah. Immunity, including the identity of the person being seized or detained and the immunity from the seizure of personal luggage, cannot be done. Similarly, any judicial processual immunity, in the performance of all official duties, of what has been written or, most important, of what has been done. Perhaps the court of Mali cannot judge our defence forces, would say so well in a simple country language, that is.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U434	Good waitress, thank you. No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? Opening negotiations, it seems, doesn't suggest. We will now examine the amendments to draft 452. One amendment has been received: Amendment 1 from the lead committee. Thank you! We have examined the amendments. We are now going to the commission's request for a final vote. Let's start preparing it. Can we go to the final vote? I will put draft 452 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U435	With the result of 44, 17 against, no abstentions, the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic on extending the term of use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international duties of the Estonian State in the military operation led by France in the target unit Takuba Mali and Niger has been adopted as 452 as a decision. The item on item 21 is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U436	Let's move on to item 22. Second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the performance of the first contribution of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or its Member State, the European Union or other international military operation led by the United Nations" delivered by the Government of the Republic. It is a great honour to ask the Chair of the Riigikogu in Leo Kunna, Vice-Chairman of the National Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U437	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of this draft also took place on 10 November. No amendments to the draft were tabled outside the commission by the deadline for submitting amendments, i.e. 22 November. The draft also did not require any linguistic clarification. The National Defence Committee also discussed this draft before the second reading, including at its meetings on 22 November and 6 December. At its meeting on 6 December, the Committee on National Defence (consensus) approved the draft text and the explanatory memorandum at second reading. Now the amendment tabled by the Committee on National Defence. And I'm gonna ask for more attention for a moment, because it's important. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] In view of the complex security situation, the Committee on National Defence (consensus) tabled an amendment to the draft proposal to increase the number of members of the Defence Forces from 50 to 100. This is an important substantive change relating to the current security situation and which would allow us to send more people to the operation if necessary, also in the immediate area. There have been many questions up here, such as how we send [our Defence Forces] to operations. We must have well thought out for this, and we must also have perfectly legal opportunities so that we can do it properly. The draft and its practical need. In the meantime, I would like to mention that the Minister of Defence and the officials of the Ministry of Defence, who represented the author of the draft, supported the amendment tabled by the Committee on National Defence on the draft. Now about the bill and its practical need. On the basis of the draft and the amendment taken into account in it, up to 100 Estonian Defence Forces will be decided to participate in the international obligations of the Estonian State, either by contributing to this for the first time to an international military operation led by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or its Member State, the European Union or the United Nations. This may be called the use of an exceptional mandate and relates in particular to a critical need, i.e. a situation in which a rapid deployment of the Defence Forces unit is required in a time-critical situation to help ensure international stability. The Government of the Republic used the special mandate for the first time on 2 April 2020 when it decided to start the operation on the basis of the decision of the Riigikogu in force for 2020. Urgent decision-making was needed in connection with the decision of the Council of the European Union of 31 March 2020 to terminate the EU military mission EUNAVFOR Med/Sophia and instead to launch a new military mission EUNAFOR Med/Irin. In addition to the explanatory memorandum, I note that for the second time the Government of the Republic also used an exceptional mandate to participate in the training mission in Mozambique in September, involving the National Defence Commission in the decision-making procedure. This is in line with § 34 61 of the National Defence Act. I would point out here that every time such a quick decision is made and it no longer comes to the large hall, it comes through the National Defence Committee and the Commission must approve it. In practice, such a procedure is justified when allied duties are required in a time-critical manner, and parliamentary control over executive power is also guaranteed. Procedural decisions of the National Defence Committee. At its meeting on 22 November 2021 (consensus), the National Defence Committee decided to propose to the Riigikogu to terminate the second reading and, based on § 109 of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, to put the draft to the final vote. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U438	Good waitress, thank you very much. No questions for you. Thank you. Is there a wish to open negotiations with the political groups? Please! Come on, come on, come No, it's not. Okay, then I won't open the negotiations. We will begin the examination of the 453 amendments to the draft, good colleagues. The first amendment is from the lead committee; after the debate, the position of the lead committee is to take full account of it. There are no other amendments. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I shall put draft 453 to the vote and to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U439	With the result of 59 votes against or no abstentions, the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, "Use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the first contribution to the international military operation led by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or its Member State, the European Union or the United Nations, has been adopted as 453. The 22nd item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U440	Let's move on to item 23. Second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the United Nations peacekeeping mission in Lebanon." Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu to Madis Milling, Member of the National Defence Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U441	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, To quote the classics, we can say that we have moved at a good pace to today's last draft mission. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Now let's get down to business. As in the previous draft mission, the first reading of this draft also took place on 10 November. No amendments to the draft were tabled by 10.30 a.m. on 22 November, nor did the draft need any linguistic clarification of the commission. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before the second reading, including at its meeting on 22 November and 6 December. At its meeting on 6 December, the Committee on National Defence (consensus) approved the draft text and the explanatory memorandum at second reading. In short, the bill. The UNIFIL mission is a United Nations classic 'blue helmet mission'. According to the draft, the Estonian Defence Forces would continue their mission with up to three active troops who would serve as staff officers. As a member of the United Nations, Estonia contributes to security in the crisis area through its participation in this mission. Procedural decisions. At its meeting on 22 November 2021 (consensus), the National Defence Committee decided to propose to the Riigikogu to terminate the second reading of the draft and, based on § 109 of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, to put the draft to the final vote. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U442	Thank you, good waitress. What's happened is you don't have any questions. Thank you. Do you want to open negotiations, nicely? Don't recommend opening negotiations. No amendments to draft 454 have been received. The Governing Commission has been firm in its decision and has proposed to the Assembly that a final vote be taken on the draft. Let us begin the preparation of this vote. Dear colleagues, I hate to disturb you, but can we go to the final vote? Thank you. I will put draft 454 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U443	[[It's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U444	Let's move on to item 24. Second reading of bill 378 of amendments to the Planning Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. I ask Riho Breiveli, member of the Economic Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please! Please, good fellows, quiet in the hall! Please respect the waitress and honor those who wish to hear the presentation. There's still too much noise in the hall. Mr. Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U445	Good manager! Dear colleagues and sisters! I am pleased to inform you that in the end we have come here before the Riigikogu to amend the planning law and in this connection to amend other laws. In fact, this draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic. a on April 19th. Since we had different approaches to meetings here, he arrived at the first reading on 29 September. The deadline for submitting amendments was 13 October and no amendments were received from members of the Riigikogu, committees or political groups by that time. Since the Act amending the Planning Act is a relatively serious document, its processing was notified to the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities, the Association of Estonian Planners, the Association of Estonian Architects, the Estonian Environmental Impact Assessment Society, the Estonian Chamber of Environmental Associations, the Estonian Private Forest Association and the Association of Estonian Apartments Associations. The Association of Estonian Ports and the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities, the Estonian Planners' Association, the City of Tallinn, the Estonian Chamber of Environmental Associations and the Estonian Association of Construction Entrepreneurs also addressed the Commission with their opinion. Part of these proposals are also repeated. The Ministry of Finance sent its views on the views received as representative of the initiator of the draft. In addition, the initiator himself submitted eight proposals on the principled proposals commissioned by one of the planners' associations. All the proposals put forward have been available on the draft map. And what is very fundamental: the Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft four times between two readings. This means that we had four sessions in the Committee on Economic Affairs where we discussed the issues relating to the amendments to this law. Why were we discussing them four times? In order for us to know the views of all interested parties, which were on the draft map, to discuss and make the relevant decisions. A first meeting was held on 9 November, chaired by Kristen Michal, and Annely Akkermann, Riho Breivel, Jüri Jaanson, Siim Kallas, Mikhail Korb, Sven Sester and Mikhail Stalnukhin were present. Relevant specialists of the Ministry of Finance were invited to this meeting: Head of the Planning Department, Adviser, Head of the Financial Department of Local Government, as well as representatives of the City of Tallinn and representatives of the Estonian Association of Construction Entrepreneurs. Then the proposals they tabled were discussed. The representative of the city introduced the views of the Estonian Association of Cities and Municipalities; the input was obtained from the city of Tallinn. Their desire is that the regulation of the management contract, which imposes the obligation on developers to build public buildings, should be written out so that they are more abstract. There were other suggestions. For example, in the Planning Act, replace the words "buildings under an administrative contract' with "buildings'. They also had a proposal or an opinion that the amendment to § 131 (2) of the Planning Act contained in the draft is misleading, which states that the developer may be obliged only to build the facilities necessary to implement this planning solution, in particular the word "directly" because "directly" is an undefined legal term and it is not clear what is direct or indirect. If, according to the developer, he is harmed in the planning process, there are processes to challenge the planning and take down the responsibilities imposed by the local government, etc. It has also been recognised that the planning process has been simplified and that there is the possibility of building on the basis of design conditions which are not provided for by the current law, the conclusion of administrative contracts is in the design conditions procedure. It would make sense to extend the same regulation of the management contract as the draft under the detailed planning procedure. However, the Executive Director of the Estonian Association of Construction Enterprises said that the Association of Construction Undertakings takes the view that Tallinn's proposal to amend the relevant section is contrary to the Constitution and in the same way to Articles 11 and 12 of the Planning Act. It is also recognised that the proposed application of the law would lead to unequal treatment of developers. This leads to the conclusion that issues were raised, which were focused on setting out the obligations to be imposed on the developers of the management contract. It was practically the case that although both sides approached the problems in a uniform manner, they had diametrically different views on the content of the specification that the City of Tallinn and the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities had proposed to the Economic Commission. Decisions were not taken at this meeting of the Commission. The next meeting of the Commission was held on 16 November. And on 16 November there was Kristen Michal, chairman, and members of the committee were Riho Breivel, Jüri Jaanson, Raimond Kaljulaid, Siim Kallas, Mikhail Korb, Sven Sester and Mikhail Stalnukhin. The draft law amending the Planning Act and related amendments to other laws was discussed accordingly. Representatives of the Estonian Environmental Associations Koja and the Estonian Planning Association were invited to discuss the opinions received from them. Everyone involved got a word. The initiator then commented on these proposals and opinions. Here the focus was on harmonising the provisions of the Forest Act and the Planning Act, the treatment of the proposals sent to the Commission by the Estonian Chamber of Environmental Associations, which was a draft for the restoration of a provision excluded from the government coordination circle. According to the proposal, the requirement to limit the right to clear cutting by forest owners in forests close to settlements that protect the houses in the settlement from storms or storms would have been harmonised. According to the Forest Act, in contrast to the Planning Act, the restriction is subject to the permission of owners. Where and for what reason such a requirement to obtain permission from the owner for the restrictions imposed on him in the Forest Act has entered into force, the initiator of the draft could not comment. There was a rather long debate on this. Finally, the representative of the planning association said that the draft law contained important improvements that are already expected and did not fully support the drafting of the planning law, but rather suggested waiting for the results ordered by the Ministry of Finance. However, a few specific proposals were submitted to the Commission. A discussion took place where the advisor of the Ministry of Finance explained these views in principle and clarified the contradictions between the two laws. Overall, it was suggested that since some problems will be solved with the ex-post evaluation, later on they will come back to this. The Estonian Planners' Association had a few other proposals. One of the most important things was that the law would also include the ability to conduct electronically, how to say, a review of plans. There was also a debate on this, which was later incorporated into the amendment. I, Riho Breivel, used to take the view that this amendment does not solve all the problems, and there have been conversations with members of the Estonian Planners' Association, and their view was that we should go this way at all in order to draw up a new law. However, when I asked the chairman of the planners' association about this, they were of the opinion that at the moment there was no point in drafting a new law, but that this amendment could go very well. It follows that, at its meeting on 16 November, the Commission did not take decisions again, as we planned to hold the next meeting. It was November 23rd. This meeting was attended again by the members of the Commission, Annely Akkermann, Riho Breivel, Jüri Jaanson, Raimond Kaljulaid, Siim Kallas, Mikhail Korb, Sven Sester and Mikhail Stalnukhin, and Kristen Michal chaired the meeting of the Economic Commission as usual. The initiators of the draft, Head of the Planning Department of the Ministry of Finance and Advisor were invited to this committee meeting. The draft amendments were examined. The Commission accepted the opinions received from the initiators and the wording of these proposals and proposed a total of nine amendments to the draft as the lead committee. One proposal received by the planning association concerning the possibility of virtual participation in the public consultation was supported in principle. During the sitting, the issues remaining under the conditions of inclusion were discussed, the need to bring the Forest Act and the Planning Act into line and the possibility of doing so with the pending draft. The initiator's representatives were asked whether there was a reasonable way to resolve the inconsistencies between the Forest Act and the Planning Act. However, according to them, the attitude of the Ministry of Finance was essentially set out in the table and the Government of the Republic did not reach a common position in this regard because the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Justice opposed the changes. Since there was a kind of contradiction with the Constitution, it created problems. There was also a debate on this issue. Nine amendments were included in the list of amendments, all of which were supported by consensus by the Commission on the basis of the reasons set out in the explanations of the proposals in the list of amendments. The commission took the following procedural decisions: on the proposal of the Committee on Economic Affairs to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for second reading by 8 December, this is today, and the second is to stop reading. When the second reading of the draft is closed, the Commission's proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for the third reading and to hold a final vote on 15 December. But that wasn't the end of it. The question of whether to use the digital opportunity to review the plans was raised. It was decided that this point would be correctly formulated by the initiator and discussed again on 6 December. So, on 6 December, there was a re-examination. I didn't say one more thing. Indeed, on 23 November, when our third meeting took place, we discussed the issue of the conflict that arose. Here was the question: Sven Sester agreed that things took time and things didn't work out as soon as they needed to, but he understood from the representatives of the ministries that if there was anything to be added to the explanatory memorandum, it would be more our own calming. As has been said, in fact, no changes are likely to occur in the next six months.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U446	Good Riho, report time's over. I can give you a little more, a few minutes, but not too much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U447	Well, give me a few minutes. I'm almost done.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U448	We'll give you two more minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U449	Yes, he [Sven Sester] would actually prefer legislation where things are clearly in place and the legislator would understand which laws are being passed. He said that he could not support procedural decisions in voting on this draft. This is exactly the same problem that I had, because I have been of the opinion from the outset that more regulation on planning law needs to be put in place and that problems need to be resolved, and that the contradictions referred to by Sven Sester are a serious problem. This means that the two of us did not support the proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda. And that proposal went by 7 votes in favour, and there were 2 votes against. It was also proposed that the second reading be completed: in favour of 7 and against 2. Basically, that's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U450	Thank you. We can go to the questions. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U451	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! My question would focus on this acute issue, which is clear-cut. You discussed this at your meeting on 16 November. I listened to you and read it one way and the other way. I understand that the Estonian Chamber of Environmental Associations proposed this, the government figured it out, then it was again proposed to discuss it and found that there was some contradiction between the two laws, the Forest Act and the Planning Act. But I did not understand what the contradiction was. Why don't you explain that again? Because if the forest owner is restricted to clear cutting and is necessary for the community or for some of the settlements bordering there under the Planning Act, it is perfectly reasonable to ask the owner for permission and to ask for consent. What is the contradiction?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U452	Well, the contradiction was that the possibility of compensating the owner for what to say, expenses, or rather, not expenses, but his property, is written in the same way in one law, the Forest Act, but in another, the Planning Act. These things aren't, like, uniformly valued. Let's say, as the law has now been passed, that wind farms are compensated, that the law amending the law on planning will not solve it. Here's the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U453	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U454	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! This draft establishes a database of plans, which, in itself, is, in my opinion, a very important and necessary instrument for reducing bureaucracy and making processes more efficient. But the question is going to be a little bit wider. Today we basically approved a draft which exempts average pensions from income tax. In order to do this software development, a small gadget, it took the Ministry three years. And now we want to do a huge thing that is very important. Was there any mention in the Commission of how much time it would take to do so? Because, in fact, the law should enter into force next November, as you can see, these points. Do they take three years, ten years or 30 years?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U455	Thank you for your question. But we really didn't discuss that deadline. Maybe we hope, blue-eyed, that it will be ready by then. So we're optimists.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U456	Heiki Hepner, again, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U457	Yeah, thanks! My second question also concerns the drafting of this draft. It is well written in the explanatory memorandum to try to solve problems accumulated over five years, to provide such a solution. There have also been quite a number of technical problems, but in this respect we can be pleased that solutions are being found. But we know that now that energy prices are making a completely crazy rise, we have not been able to move forward with our plans to create additional energy capacities. Looking at and browsing this bill and, in fact, the law in force, back and forth, back and forth, frankly, these solutions could not be found that would somehow help the cancer to come out from under the stone. How do you comment on that? Or was it not the most important problem in the five years? That would be sad.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U458	This was not a problem at our committee meeting. I myself did not see that these matters should be resolved by this bill, and that is why I said in my speech that these problems remain unresolved. It takes, as you and I have spoken before, to go to the creation of a new law. But here's the thing, since certain things need a quick solution, no matter what this amendment to the law can do, maybe it's wise to go forward step by step, even though it's never wise to start chopping the dog's tail in pieces.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U459	Thank you. I don't see any more questions. We can go to the negotiations. I'm opening negotiations. The first has been Mr Metsoja, who has expressed his wish to speak. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U460	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, all the planners who have made Estonia the way it is on the Estonian landscape! Certainly, I also think that the changes that Riho was talking about here today are a small step and it makes sense to make it happen, but it is probably not enough, because, again and again, it actually sounds like Estonia needs a new law to plan and greater consistency between the various legislations. Well, we've been taking these steps a little bit, haven't we? If we take an example of a country's special plan, there have been both successes and failures. It's been a good lesson. Ultimately, this is probably how this legal space can be built piece by piece. However, at one point, however, we should try to sum up these interests and link them into one whole, so that the Constitution would also have an important place and, specifically, private property would have a very important place in all of this. I dare say, in fact, that this one of the topics discussed, which the rapporteur also spent quite a lot of time on in his presentation, the same coherence between the Planning Act and the Forest Act, we are increasingly living in an environment that affects us close to or far from, and which is not directly related to our property. After all, RMK is actually a good example of how it has even been said that the whole forest of RMK is such a heightened area of public interest where you can always relate to this piece of forest and express your opinion. It is also used in quite attractive places and is actively used. The question now is that, when we go to the value of state assets, first and foremost, when we talk about forest land and economic land and limit this resource, it is also boosted on private land at some point. In fact, this regulation in some sense already lives in people's heads, and it would like to protect a piece of forest near its home, but there is no regulation on how to do this and how to compensate for it for its owner. I think this is a very serious and important place. That is exactly what I think it is necessary to talk about in an area concerning the country's special plan, i.e. the public interest. This draft is not specifically concerned, but we are seeing more and more that, in fact, if there is a public interest, the public interest is subject to private interest. But there's a price. And in other parts of the world, it is actually clear from such plans that all of us, together with a wallet, are making a commitment to its owner. Buying off the owner's property, emotional value among them, rather than simply making adjustments to the property value. Just as there was talk in Question Time today, KredEx will help and support the reconstruction of homes in rural areas. But let's face it, banks and the real estate market see a very different value there. In the city, you can buy a broken-down garage with that money, but the painting is a valuable farm complex. And if it needs to be used as a corridor, it is not actually possible to buy the same value with this money. I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U461	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U462	At the same time, we have also initiated a draft with Members on one very important issue. This is a delicate subject for Estonians and also covered by the shade of the occupation period; it concerns the construction ban zone in the restricted zone, be it on the Estonian islands or on the mainland along the rivers and lakes. After all, we have so far lived in the knowledge that these places can be built when a foundation stone is found there or when the apparent object that has ever been can be restored to the building register. Then it's like building rights. As Members of Parliament, we have engaged lawyers to initiate this debate in this Chamber. This is just as much about the planning law and the nature conservation law as well as the water law, because as initiators we are absolutely convinced that water must be protected and nature protected. Where there are nature conservation objects, the Environmental Board has the right to decide what is right and what is wrong. But in those places where natural land is actually possible, there are parcels that can be built, they are beautiful and maybe connected to the existing building complex somewhere in X in Estonia. Perhaps the owner wants to build a small sauna, even down the riverbank, or build a small sauna, so I think we can put this legal space in order. Because we know that it will be done in Estonia anyway. And what is being done anyway, I don't think we should look away, but we should go help our own people in a legitimate way and really do it in such a way that no risks arise, nothing falls on anyone, and the views of our neighbor and the beautiful natural environment will not be damaged. So the subject is right, obviously the step should be a little longer, but we, as Members of Parliament, will now give it, if I may say, to the intrigue. Otherwise, there will be no legal space if there are no debates. So thank you and your strength!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U463	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U464	Thank you, Mr President. The planning law is undoubtedly such a law, which is still a very important law, as Riho said to us as an initiative here during the second reading [call]. This law really creates these spatial solutions where we live, and we should think about where we would like to live. But I'm not going to talk about all this right now, but I'm going to talk about a few moments. Before I highlight these moments, I would say that this draft, too, will, however, resolve a number of technical bottlenecks, for example, with regard to communication, whether it be information or public debates, by implementing already established modern solutions. There are still technical issues that this bill will solve. The explanatory memorandum states that it will try to solve the problems accumulated over five years and find solutions to them. I've already identified it in my question. Indeed, we know, in the current energy crisis, that we are very short of production capacity. This is one important reason why we have reached a position at the electricity price that we are now in yesterday was over EUR 1 000 per megawatt-hour. I browsed, read the bill from the above backwards and forwards, and looked at the law in force, but found the keys that would make this wagon roll, would help us bring windmills, even as renewable energy, and overcome certain deadlocks that we have reached. Only recently, a map was published, which showed that almost all of Estonia was red, [any place that can't be done], for various reasons. This shows that, in fact, this topic is very important and very acute. This has certainly been one of the most important problems of five years. Of course, it is a pity that we have not been able to solve this problem with this bill. The second issue, which this bill does not actually solve, but which still deserves to be clearly identified, is indeed the establishment of deposits and the creation of nature reserves. They're like two different ends of one long axis. Indeed, the current planning law provides some input to the construction of deposits; nature reserves are essentially not concerned. But both of them have a very strong environmental impact. In both cases, if they are to be done, the principles of the planning law should be clearly monitored. At present, if this issue arises, whether deposits or nature reserves, these principles are being ignored and dealt with under special laws. It's not really right. Things with such a high environmental impact should be dealt with in accordance with the planning law. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U465	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U466	Let me give you another example. Of course, the changes that we hope to adopt at some point will not protect us from human follies, either. The green grid plans are specified, the concepts are, are the support areas, they are combined with green corridors, green areas are all very right. Just to illustrate, in the planning of Rail Baltic, it was repeatedly pointed out that such a solution was not working well, it was not possible to build across the green corridor, but it was ignored. Now, of course, people are in trouble, trying to find solutions, putting pressure on the municipality to take that risk and to bear the costs, because all such changes in planning can at some point end up in the government's wallet. We are not really protected from such foolishness, but I very much hope that it will do a little bit to ease and help us understand what we are dealing with, perhaps a little less will come up with very stupid decisions in the future. One thing I would really like to say in conclusion is really the creation of a collection of planning databases. This is very important, it makes the work of local governments actually easier, it makes it easier for people, above all, to monitor the process, because there are very many stages, and this could be very helpful. I very much hope that the success of this [draft] is not what has been the case with the average pension exemption, which has been said for years that it cannot be done, because simply this process is already complicated and we will not be able to deal with it in the current year. That's what it took three years to tie. The current task is, of course, more complicated than ever, but I hope that the Minister will be more active and active, and we will still be able to reach the establishment of databases and databases in the time frame set. So I want strength and still try to make it a law that will help us move forward in the field of renewable energy, help prevent stupid solutions and still lead life forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U467	Thank you. I don't see any more calls, I'm closing the negotiations. We will examine the amendments. Nine amendments have been tabled for bill 378. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 2, by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs, has taken full account of this. The third amendment is also proposed by the Committee on Economic Affairs and has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. The fourth amendment, the author of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. The fifth amendment, the author's Committee on Economic Affairs and the lead committee have taken full account of it. The sixth amendment, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Commission, has taken full account of it. The seventh amendment is tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the commission has taken full account of it. The eighth amendment is tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the commission has taken full account of it. The author of the ninth amendment is also the Committee on Economic Affairs and the commission has taken full account of this. We have examined all the amendments. The commission has proposed that the second reading of draft 378 be discontinued. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U468	We can go to the 25th item today. This is a draft law amending the Port Act, the Maritime Safety Act and the State Fees Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 425. The draft is at second reading and I call Annely Akkermann, member of the Economic Commission, as rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U469	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. The 425 bill is not as complex as the previous one. This is a procedure between the first and second readings of the Port Act, the Maritime Safety Act and the Amendment Act to the State Fees Act. The draft law amending the Port Act, the Maritime Safety Act and the State Fees Act was initiated by the Government of the Republic. a on September 13. The first reading of the draft decision took place on 13 October. No amendments were received from Riigikogu members, committees or political groups by the deadline of 27 October. The procedure of the draft was notified in Parliament to the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities, the Association of Estonian Shipowners, the Association of Estonian Ports, the Port of Tallinn, Saarte Linini AS, the Association of Estonian Circular Economy Enterprises, Green Marine AS and the Estonian Small Port Development Centre. The Commission was approached by the Association of Estonian Ports and the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities with their own opinion. The initiator of the draft sent his views on the views received by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Following a meeting in the Commission working group with representatives of the Association of Estonian Ports and the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities, some amendments to the wording were agreed, which the representative of the initiator of the draft forwarded to the lead committee among his proposals. All of them can be consulted in detail on the draft map. But they did not really change the substance of the draft, but merely specified it. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the preparation of the draft for a second reading at its meeting on 23 November, where representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications also participated. The Commission accepted the wording of the proposals set out in the opinion received from the initiator and proposed a total of nine amendments to the draft proposal as the lead committee. The text of the draft text passed between the two readings and technical and linguistic changes have been made to the draft text, which, as has been said, does not change the substance of the draft. The amendments have been tabled, there are nine, and they have all received consensus from the Commission. The commission also made procedural decisions and proposals: to put the draft on the Riigikogu agenda for second reading today, 8 December and to conclude the second reading; when the second reading of the draft is completed, the committee's proposal to put the draft on the agenda for the Riigikogu plenary session for third reading and to hold a final vote on 15 December. That's all I got.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U470	That was quick. But there are questions. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U471	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! When we had another legislative amendment here and there was a second reading, I tried so loudly to pass on one proposal, and the Minister has heard it before. Was it also under discussion when the issue was reopened in the Commission, or was it not discussed? Do you have anything to say about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U472	Yeah. I think you are thinking about your question at the moment, which you have put forward on the draft reduction in the fees for waterways, but this question concerned the renewal of seafarers' diplomas or courses and the renewal of qualifications. In the meantime, I had a conversation with some maritime experts about this, and they said that already today, certain additional training can actually be done internationally in other countries. For example, Estonian captains are said to be training the tanker in Riga. There is no need for an amendment to the law. However, as far as the so-called "cross-border" diplomas are concerned, which is a slightly bigger and more complex problem, countries generally renew their diplomas themselves. That is my current understanding of the subject. But this could now be dealt with in the framework of another maritime safety law concerning the mutual recognition of diplomas for seafarers on inland waterway vessels. It will come back to the Chamber of the Riigikogu in no time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U473	Tarmo Kruusimäe, again, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U474	Thank you! Good Commission waitress! You're familiar with the subject yourself. Was it such a competent answer that we can attend training in Riga? I don't think so. Nor does it match the idea that ships must be brought under the Estonian flag. It was always said that the most important thing is the shore service, we'll strengthen it, but then they say you can take the exam there in Riga. Did this maritime specialist have any argument as to why we should do it in Riga?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U475	No, it was not, like, a systematic debate at all in the sense that there are courses in the maritime sector that need to be updated after a certain number of years. And then there's such a level-raising course. These upgrades of training are international. Latvians and Ukrainians may as well go to Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U476	Thank you very much. I don't see any more questions. We can now open negotiations and the wish has been expressed by Tarmo Kruusimäe. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U477	Thank you, good vice chairman. Dear colleagues here and on the other side of the blinking screen, representatives of the Ministry and all those who delight us that we can still get the ships under the flag of Estonia from time to time! I actually say that being in the opposition makes no sense to make any amendments or anything, because the first reaction is that it goes into the trash, the second reaction is that it goes into the trash anyway, and the third is that if it goes into the trash anyway, there is no point in reading it at all. But I do know that his people at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and other ministries are still listening to our hearings. I'm telling you honestly, I'm actually surprised. There was once such a case in Tallinn: Kalev's indoor swimming pool, which he was there, the first row, the sign had been placed on that Europark, pay off and then parking is free. But there was no indication that this only applied to the first row in the indoor swimming pool. The rest of the place, the whole place that was there, was just considered downtown territory. That was a pretty big problem. I remember going to the press to light that thing up. Then there were two people, one of whom had to take pictures of this situation and the other had just received a fine. When we started discussing this at the Tallinn City Council Committee, one person at the back of the hall said that this problem had been solved. I asked that [how, because] the deputy mayor, the current minister said no-no-no, no problem, but these people said they were listening to council meetings. Yeah, well, that's the problem. People didn't understand. And we solved the situation. So, we know that ""Knocked, knuckled, knuckled," mucked Leninas," even though I think he only said that once. It was in Lithuanian "Learn, learn, learn," said Lenin. The repetition must have been the mother of wisdom. I'm gonna try to be the grandmother of wisdom and talk about this for the third or fourth time. But I suppose every time some people come up with that idea. Maybe there are 150,000 sailors in Ukraine, and one third of them are officers. They have these STCW certificates, the diplomas they should complete every five years. And the question is, where do you keep these documents? It's not very big... This kind of international cooperation works so you can choose for yourself. But the laws of Estonia are such that they cannot, because [Ukraine] is a third country within the meaning of the European Union. The Ukrainians, however, do not trust their own system very much, because in the meantime there are officials who are terribly needy to be smeared with books; they have such an increased interest in bibliophilia, as is said in the city of Tallinn. It's the idea that we can just write it into the law. What is he? I say again: 'The training and qualification requirements of a member of the ship's family and the procedure for certification', § 32, and this second paragraph: 'The Finnish Transport Board issues a certificate of competency or a certificate of competency to an Estonian citizen or an alien holding an Estonian residence permit or right of residence...' should be worded to include the words 'or an alien holding an e-residency'. It is estimated that it would be money that the Estonian state would still have in millions of people if it had confidence. Two-and-a-half million would then come from state fees, taxes, etc. for such a cycle. So this is an opportunity. Our e-residency, though, I've been asking, although I don't know, we don't have that much of a showroom anymore. Today, the President wrote about this, too, and I think there was a conference on how we have this e-residency. But if our e-residency works, why not, we could do it. So, people from the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Tarmo Kruusimäe is here, I can give you the information. And I think you'll find an even better solution. But there can be nothing more noble than the great sea state Estonia offers a small Ukraine its own hand to move, if they bring all this training money here to Estonia. I think it's a lot of makeup. I guess we'll meet at the next debate on maritime issues, and I hope that at some point someone official will come and say that it has already been done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U478	Thank you. I don't see any more calls, I'm closing the negotiations. We will also examine the amendments, nine of which were tabled. This is because the first amendment is tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, which has taken full account of this proposal itself. The second amendment is also tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and has been fully taken into account by the Committee on Economic Affairs. Amendment number three, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and by the commission of lading, was fully taken into account. Amendment number four, author of the Committee on Economic Affairs, the lead committee has taken full account of it. Amendment number five, author of the Committee on Economic Affairs, the lead committee has taken full account of it. Amendment six, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and fully taken into account. Amendment number seven, tabled by the Economic Commission and the Steering Committee, has been fully taken into account. The eighth amendment, the author of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. The ninth amendment, the author's Committee on Economic Affairs and the lead committee have taken full account of it. With this we have examined all the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 425 and the second reading is to be completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U479	We can go to the last item on item 26 today. This is draft 441, which is a first reading, of the General Part of the Environmental Code Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act amending other laws (repealing the Environmental Register Act). I call Secretary of the Environment Erki Savisaar as a waitress. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U480	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Riigikogu! Before you is the draft Act amending the General Part of the Environmental Code and other laws (repealing the Environmental Register Act) initiated by the Government of the Republic. The purpose of the draft is to update the procedures for handling environmental information in [national] databases. The new regime responds to how environmental information has actually been collected, including by distinguishing the information systems that have so far been designated as sub-information systems in the environmental register as independent databases. An environmental portal bringing together environmental data will be created in place of the environmental register and the Estonian nature information system EELIS and the mineral resource register will be established as independent databases, which have so far operated as sub-information systems in the environmental register. It repeals the Environmental Register Act, which entered into force in 2003 and has expired. The environmental portal created by the draft is a website that provides central access to environmental information stored in national databases and provides a causally and spatially linked overview of the state of the environment. The environmental portal does not mean creating an independent database, but an IT solution that displays and links data from different databases. The IT development of the new environmental portal is already ready. The purpose of the Estonian Nature Information System, which is to be established as an independent database, is to systematically collect and ensure the availability of public data on the spatial objects listed in the draft (e.g. protected areas, protected species, flood areas and water bodies). All data on the Estonian Nature Information System will be made public in the form of open data on the new environmental portal. Currently, the Estonian nature information system is considered to be a sub-information system of the environmental register, but technically it is a separate database. Since the existing solution of the Estonian nature information system is technically outdated, we started the IT development of the new information system at the end of last year. The purpose of the second inventory of mineral resources established as an independent inventory, the list of deposits in the environmental register with its former name, is to collect and ensure the availability of geological information. The Mineral Resources Register is already an independent system, both in substance and in information technology, of the environmental register [separated]. The process of cleaning up environmental databases has already taken place over a long period of time. From the sub-information systems of the environmental register, an information system for environmental monitoring, an information system for environmental decisions and a database for scientific and recreational fisheries have already been established as separate databases. Several other sub-information systems in the environmental register will in turn be included in the environmental decision information system and can then be closed. The implementation of the law will have an impact, in particular, on the organisation of the work of public authorities and public access to environmental information. In particular, the reliability of environmental data will be increased as data errors can no longer arise in the transfer of data to the environmental register. More reliable data will enable public administrations to make informed decisions in environmental policy-making. Environmental information requirements will be made less burdensome for officials as data will no longer have to be transferred from other databases in the environmental register. This in turn reduces the workload associated with the processing of data. The changes to the draft will hopefully also result in an increase in the number of users of environmental data, as more data will be made more easily available and conveniently used. The new environmental portal that will be created will provide a comprehensive picture of our environmental status and will also help to make informed decisions. A better source of environmental information, or a new environmental portal, will also help to improve people's environmental awareness, attitudes and behaviour. With the bill, we will also change the procedure for submitting the drilling diary data. We complement the grounds for not having to apply for a permit for activities affecting the status and use of the ground. Namely, the drilling diary, or established well or well data, must be provided by the driller instead of an e-mail, directly through the Estonian nature information system through the environmental portal. As a result of the amendment, the workload of officials will be reduced as they will no longer have to carry the data from the drilling diary submitted by e-mail to the Estonian Nature Information System. In addition, we are supplementing the provisions on the authorisation of activities affecting the status and use of the ground in the Ground Bill and adding nine bases to the Act when it is not necessary to apply for such a permit. These are cases in practice where there are already certain conditions which lead to a positive decision being coordinated. And not every individual case needs to be reconsidered. The amendment reduces the administrative burden for both local authorities and other persons obliged to apply for authorisation and the workload for officials. The draft also introduces amendments allowing future registrations under the Air Protection of the atmosphere Act, the Waste Act, the Industrial Emissions Act and the Water Act to be dealt with in the Environmental Decisions Information System KOTKAS. These registrations are subsequently requested and granted only through KOTKAS, in a harmonised form and in a manner. The draft also lays down the basis for the registration and issuing of the document without the intervention of the official, i.e. by automated means of KOTKAS. The amendment is intended for standard situations not requiring consideration of the content, where the application can be accepted without further information being required by the party dealing with the case. Automatic checks have been developed in KOTKAS for automatic decisions. They are also linked to other registers, such as EELIS, geoportal or based on yes/no questions and verification of numerical values. Up to 10% of the registrations will be issued on automatic basis across all sectors. The functionality of the Customer Portal, together with the procedural procedures required for officials for complex permits and environmental permits, already exists in KOTKAS, while the existing functionality will be used to include registrations in the same system. The changes related to the registrations harmonise and simplify the application process compared to the previous ones, speed up customer communication with the authorisation provider, concentrate information in a single system and the Environmental Board has a better overview of the client's activities. In addition, the change will improve the overall availability of environmental information, thereby increasing citizens' and businesses' awareness of environmental requirements. As a result of the amendment, the Environmental Board aims to reduce the average length of the procedure by 10 days. The draft law also introduces amendments to the Forest Act. The purpose of the amendments is to lay down clear grounds in the Forest Act for future internal use in the forest register and under what conditions and to whom they are issued. The forest register currently does not show the stock and growth of growing forest by private forest owners. The amendment also covers the volume of logging on the forest statement and forest protection expertise, which are recognised for internal use, since all these data are personal data which provide information on the person's property status and behaviour and the disclosure of which therefore constitutes a breach of privacy. All these data are non-public only for private forest owners who are self-employed. The public will give forest owners the opportunity to make business proposals even if they have not shown interest in doing so. The forest statement shows that felling is planned and the felling volume gives a good overview of whether it is worth offering to the owner or not. These offers are usually made against the will of the owner, often misleading and selfish. Against the background of these changes, however, much more environmental information will be made public, as access restrictions to the forest register have been organised, reviewed and limited to those cases where data provide information on the property status of a natural person. Forest owners also have a clear desire for the state to help keep aggressive buyers away. Among other things, the change will contribute to fair competition and the development of market self-regulation. The amendments also specify the content of the management contract to be concluded with the private forest centre. Management is not merely meant to accept supported declarations and to pay out support, but also to identify the needs of private forest owners, which will also shape forest policy. Therefore, the task of managing private forest support is much wider. The current administrative agreement already includes these tasks, but has not yet been included at the level of the law. The creation of legal clarity is necessary in order for the law to give rise to the explicit purpose for which the Private Forest Centre needs access to data, in particular personal data. In addition, the Forest Act is complemented by a regulation on statistical forest inventory, the SMI, in order to define the concept and purpose of the SMI, and to establish a legal basis for imposing access restrictions because they are not included in the current Forest Act. The amendment envisages restrictions on access to the locations of repeatedly inspected plots, i.e. permanent plots, until they are used to collect data, but also to the locations and measurements of temporary plots until the results of the SMI are made public. The results of the SMI shall be made public annually. Data may be obtained on the basis of a data-use contract by R &amp; D institutions to carry out research in the forestry sector. The coordinates of the permanent plot shall not be public in order to avoid tilted handling. The sample represents a certain forest area. If its location is known, there is a possibility that the forest manager will intentionally or unintentionally change the course of action in this area compared to what was planned. According to statistical principles, the sample is no longer representative as a sample and should no longer be used as a basis for the study. The 20-year measurement of permanent SMI plots has been a long-term investment, with a current currency of around EUR 4 million. New permanent specimens should be selected when the location data of the plot is made public. This is, however, costly and time-consuming in itself. But, more importantly, the valuable time series created in the areas studied so far, which are essential for obtaining certain environmental data, such as growth, will be interrupted. In addition to assessing the existence, use and status of Estonian forests, statistical forest inventory data are used for the compilation of greenhouse gas (KHG) inventory in the land use, land use change and forestry (LULUCF) sector and partly in the agricultural sector. The reporting of SMI data through an international obligation, including as an element of climate reporting, therefore has an important international dimension in matters affecting the quality of the SMI. The SMI methodology has been internationally recognised and audited by the European Commission, among other things, in the course of the LULUCF reports, but we keep updating it and discussing it with mathematicians of the University of Tartu, among other things, in order to further enhance the credibility of the SMI. In view of all this, it is important to clearly regulate in forestry the procedures for the disclosure of basic SMI data, including the location of permanent plots, and to specify the circle of recipients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U481	Thank you very much. There are questions. Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U482	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. It was such a beautiful long lecture and such, but frankly the evening is also, so the understanding created a pretty complicated situation. That's why I'm going to ask you a little bit more simply, so maybe you'd better understand. I understand that there will be independent databases under this portal. How many of these databases are going to be there? Are these data interoperable with each other? Who and how will these portal data be used? What's the use?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U483	Thank you. That's a good question. I think that if I say numerically how many of these data sets there are, I might be a little wrong, but there's a lot of them. There are EELIS, the mineral inventory and several other registers. Of course, these data will be cross-used, that's the whole point of this portal. And this portal is primarily intended for public use, i.e. people can use it themselves, ask for environmental data and study all that it says about areas of interest. Secondly, these same databases will also be used by the authorities in their decision-making process. So this is a very multi-layered IT solution that could make the whole environmental data more transparent, better used and more useful.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U484	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U485	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, Since there is still one law being repealed, this is another major event in the Estonian legal order, as it tends to be that the laws only accumulate, accumulate and accumulate, and in the end the shelves are thickly filled with the state journals. Poor people hold their breath to these piles of legislation, adding yet more piles of eurolaws that can be measured by shores. Did you have a little talk about the matter with officials and others about the last time any laws were repealed, and is this really an event? At least it was at the level of assuring, so please share when it was discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U486	Thank you. No, we did not have such a debate about when it was the last moment when some laws were repealed. On the other hand, I very much agree with you that we have too many laws from time to time, so it makes sense to review them from time to time, to concentrate some of them in a new set and to delete the rest. The noise around it should be reduced. But in the meantime, I also found this list of data that goes into the EELIS. I'll read it for the verbatim, maybe it'll be easier to find. There are information about protected areas, protected species, Natura 2000 sites, fish spawning sites, hunting grounds, valuable habitats, groundwater, flood areas, water bodies, monitoring stations, swells, wells, residual pollution sites, nature observations, habitats, and actually there are more.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U487	Thank you. Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U488	Thank you. Thank you very much for your answer. The picture got a lot clearer for me. But I'm gonna ask you more when this portal could be ready or ready for use and what it costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U489	Thank you. This portal is actually ready, and now I would like to fully implement it so that people no longer have to do double work, both in the new and the old systems, and that these old outdated systems can be removed. So today it can be used, and there will be some additional functions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U490	I don't see any more questions. Thank you very much to the Minister. We can go to the co-report and invite Yoko Alender, Chairman of the Environment Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U491	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, who are still here and are not watching "AK" at home! I will give an overview of the 441 procedures in the Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu. The Commission met on 23 November by video bridge. The missing members were Heiki Kranich and Jevgeni Ossinovski. The minister introduced the bill in depth, just like here in front of us. In addition, Meelis Seedre, Head of the Forest Department, and Advisor Leno Kuura, as well as the Head of the Legal Department, Eda Pärtel, and advisor Annemari, Adviser to the Russian and Environmental Technology Department, Hanna Vahter, and advisor to the management, Kätlin Weinzierl. This is a draft which has been dealt with for a long time in advance by the Committee on the Environment. The bill used to be 292. On this occasion, the Commission's procedure was rather short. The Minister did indeed present the draft and there were no questions. But perhaps, in terms of information and verbatim, I would say that, in the meantime, there has indeed been a great deal of correspondence with legal scientists, particularly with regard to the disclosure of forest data. We asked for some legal analyses and some were sent to us on our own initiative. The Ministry of Justice and I talked about this for a long time. There were also questions about SMI data. However, the debate at the Commission meeting did not follow any longer. So if there's anything that's of interest, I'll be happy to answer the questions, but there's nothing more to tell you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U492	But there are no questions. Thank you very much. We can go to the negotiations. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U493	Ladies and gentlemen, You won't be held here long enough at the late hour of the evening, but I'd like to say a few keywords about this law. It's a good law, it's a good bill for quite a number of reasons. For all those who have contributed, I am grateful, both to my colleagues and to all those who have participated in this process in the Ministry of the Environment, the Environmental Board or other departments and research institutions of the Ministry. Surely it is worth the praise of this party that one law really is repealed. This, as my good colleague, Anti Poolamets, mentioned once, does not happen very often. Often we just build some layers on and on and change the laws, but now a little bit of the general structure. There is also a need to praise this whole portal. It has a proud name called KOTKAS and it is a collection that should bring together environmental data. Yes, it is already ready and should make it easier for officials, less bureaucratic. Of course, it is no less important that it also makes it more convenient for ordinary citizens to find and use data. I'm actually an optimist about it. Finally, perhaps I am talking about the disclosure of forest data. After all, here we have repeatedly questioned, for example, whether our forest communications should all be public. I also commend the law here. We have been able to control those so-called raccoons who are hounds on the forest owner when this forest statement has arrived in the register and are trying to grasp the awareness of the forest owner, so that perhaps we can get this piece at a lower price and below the market price. In most cases, they have not limited themselves to this, but have also tried side by side [some ways to find]. Indeed, some so - called forest merchants with very good persuasion skills have done a lot of evil. We've taken a step here, too, trying to stick this hole up and push those raccoon dogs away. Finally, the SMI. Here, too, there have been completely unjustified doubts that this statistical forest inventory does not accurately reflect our data. Of course, it is to be welcomed that the Ministry is also auditing and proving this reliability, but according to this system, forest inventory has been in the world for more than a hundred years. We have brought this forest inventory method from Sweden, which is a truly forest-rich land. That method has been developed there, and we have been working on it here for more than 20 years. Our top scientists, who are very, very recognized in the world, are behind it. I am pleased that we are now creating a legal basis for this and that we are dissipating doubts about our forestry position. Finally. This bill was actually a long time ago. But really, this time it went down, the coalition left the reins in the summer and thought we'd fix the dates of entry into force in the fall. Now we have to go through this procedure again. Maybe it was so useful that he could negotiate it all over again. One more minute, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U494	One more minute, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U495	There is still a need to negotiate with the parties and clarify what the charm of this law is and to look for small benefits. But now maybe we can finally find out that a long-made beauty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-08_U496	Thank you. The desire for negotiations has not been expressed by anyone else, so I will close the negotiations. The next step is this: the lead committee has proposed that the first reading of draft 441 be completed and the first reading is completed. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 22 December, at 5.15 p.m. Today's agenda is over and the hearing is over. Thank you and good night.
