ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U1	Ladies and gentlemen, it was 00:00, we have reached the end of today's sitting. Mr Polish Forest and Mr Ernitsa's procedural questions, if they remain by tomorrow, will be the first speeches tomorrow, and then we will continue with Riho Breivel and Rene Koka. Have a good night. Tomorrow morning at 10 am, I'll be waiting for you again. The sitting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U2	Dear Riigikogu, good colleagues! We will begin the Monday session of the 11th working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask for a chair of speakers from the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U3	[[Remote connection]] "I present an inquiry to Prime Minister Kaja Kallas from the Conservative People's Party. And the basis is what I saw when I arrived at Toompea last night. I haven't seen a picture like this since the Bronze Night when dogs barked, Special Forces and regular policemen thronged on Toompea. People were not allowed to come to Toompea, or at least they were advised not to come. I'm not going to talk about the metal barriers that restricted people's movements. All this has actually happened under the slogan "No police state!'. And what you could see in the centre of Tallinn and Toompea yesterday is actually a direct answer: "Yes, we are building a police state." Kaja Kallas has been prime minister for over two and a half months. These demonstrations, peaceful demonstrations, have taken place for a few weeks, but the methods are already like in Belarus. Fortunately, the telescopes have not yet been implemented, as far as I know. Consequently, we have a number of questions. For example: "Dear Prime Minister, do you have any information that demonstrations on Toompea threaten the security of the Estonian state? Or, "Who ordered large police forces, including riot police and dogs, to be brought to the streets? " I don't read all the questions here. "Do you think the police have used disproportionate force against the peaceful people? " And there are some such questions. For example, is playing the Estonian anthem on the cello a threat to the security of the Estonian state? Or did the protesters...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U4	Honourable member of the Riigikogu, your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U5	Thank you. The main thing is said.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U6	Let's keep going. Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U7	[[Remote connection]] Honourable Chairman! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! My inquiry is a second question on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and motivated by the same concern that Peeter just spoke of. In the second week of April, we saw a drum and stain-manner in the Liberty Square. We saw the riot police, the rapid response and the dogs being brought out next to the regular police. People were banned from using posters, and force was used against peaceful people who had come to protest against the crowd's muzzle. In this regard, we have questions for the Minister of the Interior. On what date did the Prime Minister order the use of police units and service dogs to suppress anti-government demonstrations? Under what law do the police in normal circumstances take the measures allowed in the event of an emergency? We would like to know which points of law enforcement law were violated by those who took part in the anti-government demonstration carried out by the police, and which laws are based on which police forces people to abandon their constitutional right to protest against the government by using disproportionate means of force. Questions have also been asked in a digital way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U8	Thank you. A procedural question, Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U9	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I have a question for the President of the Riigikogu. I know that the Board of the Riigikogu discussed the need to create a separate territory for protestors on the front of Toompea Castle, so that they do not interfere with the members of the Riigikogu who come to work. But I do not know that the Board of the Riigikogu would have discussed how to barricade the front of the Riigikogu with metal barriers. Who, where and when has the House of the People, or Riigikogu, decided to barricade behind metal fences like this, and on what basis does it stand? Does the Chairman of the Riigikogu have any information on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U10	Thank you. I don't think that's a procedural question. And I believe the Police and Border Guard will act as they see fit, just as the law says there is order and duty. We're in the middle of a handover now, who wants to hand over any more drafts or inquiries? We could come to procedural questions when we are satisfied with our calls. Is that okay? No, I don't think so. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U11	Thank you, Mr President. You have just answered Martin Helme's question that the Police and Border Guard Board is doing everything within the limits of the law. On Friday, I asked the police chief who co-ordinated the police force's work on this site, whether this barrier was installed in his office. They said it wasn't. Today I went to see the principal of our office, the esteemed Peep Jahilo. I asked him if he had ordered these boundaries to be installed. And I also pointed out that, as we know, this territory, this property of Lossi 1a, is managed and held by the Riigikogu and, in order to install these barriers, the consent of the holder or administrator is required. According to Peep Jahilo, this agreement has not been given. I asked if I could put any fences in here, he said I shouldn't. Therefore, the question now is who or what structure has installed these barriers, with whose permission. Maybe you can answer that by referring to the law of property. You said everything was legally done. Then let us know, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U12	Thank you, Mr Grünthal. I certainly do not think that this is a procedural issue at the moment of the implementation of the sitting. I do think that, in any case, you will have to answer these questions, and the Chancellery of the Riigikogu will certainly answer these questions to you. I also ask the principal of the office to answer the questions you asked. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U13	Yeah, I have a question about what the Police and Border Guard will do next. We read on the news today that the Prime Minister announced that he would not give orders to the police that the government would not give orders to the police. This is a very amazing government is just like a secondary and the police are such a country in the country. Is the police's threat assessment now that no part of the members of the Riigikogu can come to work? They think it's dangerous, I don't know who the state, the police, the ambassadors, and they decide they won't let these people work anymore. And the Board of the Riigikogu extends its hands and says that this is a police assessment and there is nothing we can do about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U14	Thank you. I have no information to ensure that such threat assessments or codes of conduct are applied to members of the Riigikogu. Martin Helme, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U15	Thank you. I still have a very clear problem. The Board of the Riigikogu and the Chancellery of the Riigikogu have not given anyone the right to install barricades in this territory of the Riigikogu and yet they have emerged here and no one knows about it. It's an act of persuading, isn't it? This is a police maladministration in this case and I think that the Riigikogu Board should act very quickly so that such a thing is not done on our territory.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U16	Thank you. You are also a member of the board of the Riigikogu, and I am certainly prepared to ask it at the meeting of the Riigikogu Board as soon as possible for the Director of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu to give you and Mr Grünthal an overview of this matter. Kalle Grünthal, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U17	Thank you. I thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu, that you are now investigating this matter. But in my opinion, there is still a situation where, without the consent of the holder, some kind of barricade has been made here. And that is why I am waiting not for a debate on this subject, but for the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, whose administration it is, to have them removed from it. In fact, these barricades also violate the right to free demonstration provided for in the Constitution. That's point one. But when it comes to coming here to work, unfortunately, the situation has really arisen that someone working in the EKRE Group in the office was asked: "Where are you going, man? " He had to say he was going to work. Now, let's just say the police are already checking on who's coming here to work?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U18	Thank you. I certainly don't think that's a procedural question. If the police or the Health Board are doing this because the rate of infection is high, I understand that everyone is being asked. You might ask. And, of course, if a person works here at Toompea Castle or somewhere else in the company or in the facility in Toompea, people must get a job. But we can certainly address your question on the board and give you an answer. Let's move on to procedural questions. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two questions. One is about the procedure: can procedural questions be used as an infinitely uninhibited political debate and disparaging one's country? And two: have the board of the Riigikogu or have you considered that we could thank the Estonian police for keeping people healthy at unauthorised demonstrations?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U20	Thank you. First of all, the first question I will answer is that we are trying to overcome these procedural issues, and we will certainly get there. If the members of the Riigikogu have questions that are procedural, I will answer them. If I can't answer those that are not procedural, and if there's any additional information, I'm sure I'll have to get more information and let you know. Now, number two, do you want to thank the police, the PBGB and the Health Board? It is the decision of every member of the Riigikogu how he says it. I have thanked you, and I think that in the current health crisis it is important that there is cooperation between all the institutions. Reuben Weightep, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U21	Thank you. My strictly procedural question is based on your procedural answers. As Chairman of the Riigikogu, are you interested in having the castle front barricaded and closed, or do you think that this is not relevant to your duties?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U22	Thank you. I already answered that. We'll let you know and discuss it as soon as possible. Thank you. Jaak Juske, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U23	I would like to touch on a more cheerful subject. I would like to thank and acknowledge the President of the Riigikogu, whose decision is once again to have the flags of the European Union up in our White House today. With this decision, the Riigikogu will certainly show that it respects the decision made in the referendum of the Estonian people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U24	I will make a procedural clarification here: it was the decision of the Board of the Riigikogu. But thank you! Thanks have been accepted. Mart Helme, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U25	Thank you. I could not answer my previous question as to whether at one point it was up to the police to decide which members of the Riigikogu could come to work. And does the Riigikogu, the political groups of the Riigikogu, the Riigikogu, have nothing to say about this, because that is the police's assessment and the police act strictly within the limits of the law? It seems to me that the police are not acting strictly within the limits of the law. And I would still like to hear from the President of the Riigikogu that yes, it is the task of the Board of the Riigikogu and the Riigikogu as such to ensure that representatives of the people can work. Finally, the government of the Reform Party is neither the Estonian state nor the Estonian people, and it is not within the limits of his mandate to disparage those people whose attitude is different from the attitude of the political parties of the current government.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U26	Thank you. Members of the Riigikogu must be able to come to work, do their job, as must officials, servants, employees of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. Is it the decision of the Riigikogu's board that everything must be done to ensure that our work is organised safely? Of course it is. And that is also one reason why today we are in most of the remote sessions for example. A procedural question, Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U27	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A procedural question. Why do Riigikogu meetings have to start with political nonsense, which really has nothing to do with the conduct of the sitting? According to the Rules of Procedure, procedural matters must be related to the sitting itself. I also add: why must the answers be such new questions? It bothers me very much when the President of the Riigikogu makes promises to make some kind of arrangements that I do not agree with. I really liked that I could come to Toompea today and that people's safety was guaranteed. I ask you not to make such promises that you will direct the police to ensure security in the Riigikogu! It's their job. But try to answer that first question. Why do we have to listen to this nonsense that has nothing to do with procedural issues?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U28	Thank you, Honourable Ligi. I will then answer you by teaching me your own question. Thank you. Mart Helme, a procedural question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U29	In response to the MP from the Reform Party, I would say that for two years we endured your jaura and for two years we endured your initialized picts and obstruction of your going to Stenbock's house to work. So don't complain. It's a democracy. Democracy must be accepted. If you do not like democracy and you do not like what we know on the basis of all the drafts you have initiated to introduce a police state, then that is your problem. And our problem is to derail your train.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U30	It wasn't a procedural question. Honourable Riigikogu, we are currently in the state of the procedure where we are handing over drafts and enquiries. Two members of the Riigikogu have used it, Mr Ernits and Mr Reitelmann. I know that the representative of the Government of the Republic also wishes to do so, so I have a proposal to proceed with the referral of drafts and enquiries. Lauri West Forest, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U31	Thank you. Mr President, I am sorry, I am simply taking this opportunity to communicate with colleagues.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U32	A round of procedural questions is not a place to communicate with fellow officials.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U33	Mr President, I can also formalise this as a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U34	Please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U35	I have quite a number of procedural questions that I would like to ask. But they come at the moment when the time is right, and that is in the implementation of the sitting. I just have a proposal so that we can ask the others in this Chamber these procedural questions. Perhaps it will be possible for you to agree with the rest of the Members so that we can do this part and go to the implementation of the sitting, so we can all ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U36	Thank you. I made that proposal about 14 minutes ago. Henn Põllaas, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U37	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The introduction of European Union flags into the White Hall was highlighted here. It was remembered that in 2019 there was a very big discussion about this when half of the Estonian flags were thrown out and replaced by the flags of the European Union. I gave the order to return the Estonian flags and this topic was taken up in the large hall of the Riigikogu. The Reform Party proposed to organise the exhibition of European Union flags alongside the flags of the Republic of Estonia in the White Hall of the Riigikogu. On 12 June 2019 the Riigikogu decided that European flags will not be displayed in the White Hall. This proposal was now rejected and today, by decision of the Bureau, these flags have been brought back there instead of exhibiting them, for example, in the lobby or in some other honourable place. My question is that clearly the board has made an incompetent decision, has ignored and violated the Riigikogu's decision on these flags. How do you intend to act in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U38	Thank you. It was a consensual decision of the Riigikogu's management board, I hope that I am not mistaken when I say that this date was April 6th, that since today this issue of flags has been resolved as it has been resolved. Since it was a consensual decision, it did not come to a vote or debate in plenary either. Jüri Jaanson, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U39	[[Remote connection]] Yeah, I have, say, a procedural subject. Would the Honorable Head of the Riigikogu introduce how the specific procedural question is limited? What does the Riigikogu law say about procedural matters? We could all understand it the same way in this hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U40	Thank you. Well, I guess that interpretation of procedural questions has gotten pretty free. However, I believe that this must concern the implementation of the sitting, the progress of the sitting, when procedural issues are indeed involved in the various items on the agenda, which require different steps. To assess whether the question is procedural or not, it is very difficult for the manager to know what is being asked. Kalle Grünthal, please, your procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U41	Thank you, Mr President. I am a little amazed by your answer to Henn Põllea's question that the Board of the Riigikogu took the decision to bring the flags back to the hall. As we know, there is a hierarchy for all kinds of legislation: a decision at a lower level cannot be amended by a decision at a higher level. At the moment, there is a situation where the Riigikogu has taken a decision to remove the flags of the European Union from this hall and no one has challenged it; this decision is currently in full effect. And now the Riigikogu Board meets and decides in a completely different way. How can the decision of the Board of the Riigikogu annul the decision of the Riigikogu on flags?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U42	Thank you. In my opinion, this was also a decision at the board level of the Riigikogu at the time. If consensus is not achieved, it will come together. This has been our turn and practice. A consensus was reached this time. Urmas Reinsalu, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U43	There is a proposal to carry out a presence check and then continue the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U44	I thank you for this proposal. I will add this proposal so that, first of all, I can give you the opportunity to pass on the drafts and inquiries, and then, if there are procedural questions, we will listen to them, if not, we will go to the presence check. Is this proposal okay? I would now like to ask the representative of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson, either through a speech chair or a video screen!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U45	[[Remote connection]] Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is today initiating a draft law amending the Product Compliance Act and related amendments to other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology in the proceedings of the draft law. The draft has been transmitted electronically.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U46	Thank you. I don't see any more calls. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one draft and two inquiries. The Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Let's move on to the presence control. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U47	95 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 6. Now, good colleagues, honourable Riigikogu, before the agenda is approved, I have the following information for you. In fact, last week's Thursday was held by the Board of the Riigikogu, and one question remained where no consensus was found, and we need to take a stand here in this Chamber. In particular, the 11th week of the plenary session, which is on the agenda announced this week, is the second reading of 360 SE, 355 SE and 356 SE today, which is on 12 April and the third reading on Wednesday 14 April. The Riigikogu Board did not reach a consensus on the day of the second and third reading of these drafts. The question was precisely why they take place in the same week. Two board members, Hanno Pevkur and Jüri Ratas, were in favour of it, and Martin Helme opposed it. Martin Helme, Member of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, considered that the third reading of these drafts should be removed from the agenda of the Wednesday sitting of this working week and their other readings from today's Monday should be raised to Wednesday. As the Bureau did not reach a consensus on this issue, Martin Helme, a member of the Management Board, wishes to put this issue to the vote outside the agenda under Article 16 (4) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure. I have a motion to take this vote and it will then be clear on what agenda we can work on this week. Indrek Saar, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U48	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu, for giving the floor. My question concerns the order of the day before we come to the rest of the week, where the sequence of the second and third readings is concerned. For years, however, we had a custom that on Mondays the Riigikogu was consulted and followed by a free microphone. With the latest amendments, the Riigikogu will also be allowed to submit draft laws to the sitting on Mondays. It would make sense that draft laws are on the agenda after enquiries have been answered, so the opposition has been able to ask their very important questions. I would remind you that last week, at least two times in front of the Riigikogu, the Prime Minister has called for questions to be made and promised to respond quickly. We are now in a situation where we have inquiries today from the second parties of the adjourned sitting and from the first part of the draft laws. These are other readings that may take quite a long time, the result of which may be that the hearings submitted by the opposition will not be answered at all this week, because at 24 o'clock the hearing will end and the questioning will no longer be discussed on Tuesday. Can you explain why you've planned today in this order? Why don't you put your requests ahead of the draft laws on the agenda?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U49	Thank you. Two-part answer. First of all, point one, it has been, I understand, in most cases the practice that there are first draft laws and then there are enquiries. On the other side of your procedural question, I will answer that yes, at 24:00, according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Monday session will really end, but that does not mean that nothing will not be dealt with. And if these are enquiries, they will not shift to the next week, but will come to the discussion at the next Riigikogu meeting, which will be on Tuesday at 10 a.m. A procedural question, Paul Puustusmaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U50	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President. I was thinking now that it has now turned out that a number of laws need to be dealt with very urgently. There was no consensus on the management board of the Riigikogu. I, who should now make a decision, would really like to know, before making a decision, what the arguments were that were decided on the one hand very... [[The connection's breaking up.]] I need to know that to take a stand. Where do I get this information?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U51	Thank you, Honourable Pulpland! As you know, the agenda for the Riigikogu week is put together on the basis of proposals from the leading committees. These proposals have been received by the Bureau and, as I described, we have had differences of opinion, which we must discuss in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. Peter Ernits, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U52	Good manager! I have an analogous question. Still, before you press the button, vote, I'd like to know. Well, the good point is, there's not gonna be two readings of one bill one week. Where does this crazy speed come from? What are the motives? I'm waiting for a substantive answer. It's up to you to decide.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U53	Thank you. I think what you are saying is, as a general rule, indeed: there will be no two readings in one week. But there are differences. The differences are also due to our earlier practice, both this year and last year. And we find a lot of these differences. What are the substantive reasons for these answers, these must be given to the members of the Riigikogu by a representative of the committee. Jevgeni Ossinovski, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U54	Thank you. I'll continue with Indrek Island. Let me get this straight. Now it is the Bureau's view that if the proceedings for enquiries are interrupted at 12:00 a.m. this evening due to the end of the sitting, they will automatically be transferred to tomorrow morning? So far, the interpretation has been that inquiries are answered only on Mondays. I remember there was a mess at some point, what happens to them, whether they go to the next week or how. Has this practice changed?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U55	Thank you. I consulted with my fellow Members at the Chancellery of the Riigikogu today and I was assured that if the enquiries you submitted were not answered today because it was midnight, they would be answered on 13 April at the regular session beginning at 10 a.m. Procedural question, Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U56	Thank you. I have two important questions to make sure that we all understand how we work in the same way in this Chamber. First, if inquiries are delayed to tomorrow, what about the free microphone? Is there no free microphone tomorrow, or is it possible for all members of the Riigikogu to participate in the free microphone tomorrow? I'm asking you to answer that, so we know exactly how to proceed. If the free microphone is not available, then we will still face a substantive problem once again, that the law on home and working arrangements cannot be complied with. And the second question I have is about the Thursday agenda, which is a key national issue. We have received information that this is happening recently in a traditional situation where there are several rapporteurs and limited time to answer questions, 20 minutes for some performers. At the same time, each member of the Riigikogu is able to ask each of the rapporteurs a question. Tell me, how is it possible to accommodate 101 members of the Riigikogu in 20 minutes and the answer there? In fact, according to such an agenda, it is not possible to deal with a key national issue. I drew attention to this in the Riigikogu's management board already when I was a member of the board, but I think this bad practice continues. We're devaluation this process. Practice has shown that most members of the Riigikogu, or almost no one can participate in the negotiations, only the representatives of the political groups will be able to participate if the agenda is extended by an hour, which can be done. My proposal is to review this seriously and raise this point to Wednesday, for example, when there is undefined working time and everyone can really ask their question. And the time to answer questions should not be limited. Then it is also possible to comply with this decision of the board that each member of the Riigikogu can ask one question to each of the rapporteurs. Otherwise, that's not possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U57	Honourable Helir-Valdor Seeder! In answer to your procedural question concerning the free microphone, I think you have found a weak spot in our law on home and working procedures, which really needs to be corrected. In this example of yours, as far as I know, the free microphone doesn't shift to Tuesday. And that is, of course, a big problem, because if members of the Riigikogu want to perform in a free microphone, they will not have this opportunity this week. You know that we have been discussing in the body of elders that the Home and Working Procedures Act should'review' and try to update it. This is definitely going to have to be solved for the next composition, this is a weak point, and a 5+ for you here. Thank you. Now question two. I generally agree with you. First of all, you know that this ORTC is always planned either by a political group or, in this case, by a commission. We really have to take into account that it would fit on Thursday if it was on Thursday and, in this case, it would be on Thursday, away from our working day. It is true that it can be extended by an hour and we have not planned other items there this time. Now, can we get this up on Wednesday? This proposal can be made by a member of the Riigikogu in this Chamber and, if it is supported, it can be changed. That's what we're proposing right now. But in this sense, I agree with you that in the future, we still have to rely on every question being answered as substantively as possible. Of course, there might be a time barrier. This must certainly be followed in the future. Let's keep going. We still have some procedural questions. Understandable on Monday and the first working day this week, here are the answers to be given. Indrek Saar, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U58	Yeah, thanks! I would still try to clarify this questioning once again. I'll be back to last week's discussion. The Social Democrats announced that, as soon as possible, the Prime Minister would come to the Riigikogu with a political statement on Monday of last week after the fall in vaccination, which had landed in the country on the weekend. And that's why we proposed Tuesday. The Prime Minister, in addition to saying in public communication that he had nothing to say to the Riigikogu at the moment, also made an apology that on Tuesday there would be a meeting of the Cabinet of Government at the same time as the Riigikogu meeting would be held. In this context, my question is that if there are now inquiries for the Prime Minister and this is a meeting of the government office that overlaps with the sitting of the Riigikogu on Tuesday, is it not the same situation that we are missing answers to the questions, because ministers, members of the government, are involved in the hearing? Given how long the Riigikogu's work practice has been held by the Chairman of the Riigikogu, my question continues to be why you cannot plan sessions in the opposite direction. Why don't we start by asking questions and then coming to draft laws when there is an urgent need to deal with them on Mondays? If we have a number of questions, perhaps it would not be wise to plan legislative proposals for Monday at all in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U59	Thank you. The answer to you. First of all, it can always be raised in the body of elders if your senses are that you can first discuss questions and then draft laws. As I said, we have now taken into account this practice, which has worked so far in most cases. Even this may have happened that a member of the government has come to answer the question on the next working day, or Tuesday, but this is really an exception. And now your fear that may not be able to come here as a member of the government, that he has important questions on Tuesday, on a professional basis, I think there can be no more important questions than being in front of the Riigikogu, and certainly then a member of the government will have to redefine its working schedule. Paul Woodland, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U60	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. Good George! I asked for the arguments that ruled out consensus in the Riigikogu's management board in order to shape my decision. You told me in response that since the proposal came from the Commission, the Member of the Commission must give me an answer. However, the dispute between the consensus came not from the Commission's decisions in concrete terms, but from the Bureau's internal dispute, where there were some arguments, from positions of some kind. I would like to shape my opinion according to them. Do I have the right to know the arguments that led to the disagreements between the Board of the Riigikogu and to send this question to this large hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U61	Thank you. The main thing was that we should work to ensure that we do not have two readings of one draft in one working week. As I said, this has been the case in exceptional cases, this is confirmed by practice. This was essential for them to be at the necessary pace during the various weeks, so that members of the Riigikogu could participate in the proceedings at different stages, either longer or shorter. This was the main debate. Henn Põllaas, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The fact that even three drafts have two readings in the same week is completely unprecedented. And there is nothing extraordinary about these drafts themselves, something urgent or urgent, and it is therefore completely incomprehensible to them that such haste and violation of good practice. But putting such two readings on the agenda in itself is already a perfectly clear violation of the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, because § 108 "Completing Second reading of the draft bill" explicitly states that if the second reading of the draft Riigikogu is not interrupted, the second reading is deemed to have been completed and the draft is directed to the third reading. There hasn't even been a second reading today. We do not know what will happen to these drafts, whether they will be continued. And continuing is a decision of the Riigikogu, not a decision of the board. It is therefore not possible to put the third reading on the agenda this week, as the second reading has not taken place.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U63	Thank you. I do not agree that this is a violation. This has been done before. As I said, there have been many instances of this practice. If I have to, I can give you some examples, but I don't think it's going to do anything right now. Generally speaking, I agree that if there is not much speed, if there is no action in crisis situations, then, of course, there must be readings in different weeks. In this case, the situation is different. Jevgeni Ossinovski, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U64	Thank you. Last time I checked, there were no two readings in one week, Eiki Nestor stopped. To be honest, the questioner might take it quietly. But my procedural question comes from enlightenment. Indeed, it was a surprise for me that they would be transferred to Tuesday, and then I read the new version of the law that we are working on, and I did not even read that enquiries should be on Mondays. Then why are they only on Mondays? After all, we could enrich our working days with enquiries much more often than only on Mondays, and this would allow for flexibility for respondents. A very reasonable thought indeed. Why hasn't it been implemented on the board so far? Is there some kind of guidance on the board or what it's based on?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U65	Thank you. This is now a very great recognition, of course, if you're a bit enlightened. But yes, in the case of Eiki Nestor, Chairman of the previous Riigikogu, I also remember, from my own experience on the board, putting the second and third readings on a week. I certainly think there were special cases back then, so you can't really say that. In answer to your second question, I note that when we answer questions, we really do have the custom that it is on Mondays. Thus the Riigikogu has taken into account, so the members of the government have taken into account. But it is also true that we can be more flexible. At the same time, I think it's good at least to stick to practice here. But that's what we can always change in the body of elders, if that's what we want. I do not know that anyone would have raised the question that there could be questions to be answered on Wednesdays at 14 o'clock at the beginning of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Erki Savisaar, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U66	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Does the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act provide for a procedure for extending today's sitting until the agenda is exhausted, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U67	Thank you. We are working quite hard today, I think, at a pretty good pace, and this Riigikogu hearing ends, as our law requires, at 24:00. There's no possibility of extension here. But at this rate, I think we can get everything to work really well. Now, the fourth procedural question, Kalle Grünthal!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U68	Thank you, Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. I have this feeling that you are trying wholeheartedly to comply with the law of the Riigikogu on home and working procedures. My question concerns the same unfortunate free microphone. This week's agenda contains the text that, on Monday, 12 April, a free microphone will begin after the agenda is exhausted, which will last until the call requests are exhausted, but no longer than 24 o'clock. Now you have stated from the speaker's desk that this free microphone may be canceled because the hearing will last until 24. Let me get this straight. However, the first paragraph of § 157 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure states: "For the hearing of speeches by members of the Riigikogu, political groups and committees, a free microphone will take place on Monday of each working week of the Riigikogu. " This means that a free microphone must take place. I mean, there's no other option here. And the question right now is that you're saying that it's rubber and it's dragging and it's going to have to look around. No, you don't! First of all, according to this legal provision, it is mandatory that the free microphone takes place on Monday. The Law on Home and Rules of Procedure simply does not provide other possibilities and it cannot be omitted. Therefore, in my opinion, you should now bring together the Riigikogu Board to discuss the item on which this free microphone will be placed so that all speakers can make their speech. If you don't want to do it now...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U69	Mr. Grünthal, I understand your procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U70	My proposal is that...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U71	To take the manager's break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U72	The proposal is that you take a half-hour break now and discuss this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U73	Thank you, Mr Grünthal. There's no way I can take this honor away from Mr. Seeder. He really did find that weak spot, at least for me. And it's a weak spot. I think we'll get it right in the law. I remember that we have had very many of these sessions, Mr Grünthal, where you have also had nine procedural questions. We're only at number four. So if we can get faster from here, we might get the bill processed, we'll get the enquiries processed, and we'll have time for a free microphone. But the truth is, if this doesn't happen on the date of 12 April, then we can't apply a free microphone tomorrow morning. And we need to think seriously about what to do in the future. But let's keep going. I have a suggestion that we should vote here. As you remember, we haven't even approved the agenda this week. I have a huge request to my fellow Members that if we could move on to this vote, this would be a big step forward. But I think there are some more procedural questions. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U74	Thank you, good Chairman! I also have a procedural question. It now became clear, as a good coworker named Evgeni said, that we do not have the law to say that enquiries should all be on Monday. My question is: can we not also be more flexible with regard to the free microphone? Not at the beginning of the week, you don't get the ambassadors to fly off the flight to a free microphone. I have tried, however, and I also want to come and participate in a free microphone today, if that is possible. But on Thursday, for example, a free microphone makes sense. Then the spine of the week has been broken, and maybe people are more eloquent. Can we make a free microphone on Thursday?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U75	Thank you. I think that's a suggestion. The Home and Working Procedures Act can also be supplemented in such a way as to make each day a free microphone in principle. But if you're asking about the state of the moment, the law says there's no way. Yes, we are more flexible with regard to enquiries, very rigid with regard to free microphones. Indrek Saar, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U76	Thank you. First of all, I must say that the position of the President of the Riigikogu is very sympathetic to me. We discussed here that a member of the government may have any excuse not to come to the Riigikogu on Tuesday to answer a question before the Riigikogu, and you said that a member of the government cannot have more important things than appearing before the Riigikogu and, if necessary, he must adjust his work plan. This is different from the practice of the previous President of the Riigikogu, and for me and I think that most members of the Riigikogu are certainly very sympathetic. I ask you to convey this position unequivocally to the Government of the Republic. The members of the Government of the Republic then consider that the Riigikogu has such a position communicated by the mouth of the President. But here's my question. Last week we saw that at least the Prime Minister's position is, unfortunately, now that he is a member of the government, such that there are more important things, and he does not always think that he should come to the Riigikogu. In this context, however, would it not be wiser to make this week's agenda such that we begin today with enquiries and then, when we arrive at the discussion of draft laws?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U77	Thank you. If questions remain unanswered today, I will certainly give this signal to the members of the government that they will have to be present in this House tomorrow. I looked, we have a little over eight hours left of this sitting today, if we work and approve the agenda that is currently being distributed and on which, I stress, there is no agreement at the moment. But you see, there are eight items on the agenda and if we move forward at this rate, I think that everything is still possible. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U78	Mr President! Above all, I would like to thank you for this very meaningful and useful debate that has been taking place here for 50 minutes. My procedural question has to do with the time you've been talking about. All right, in order to fill in nine hours on Monday with procedural questions, you're gonna have to do some 400-500. It does create certain difficulties. But it's a piece of cake to ask 100-120 questions on Tuesday and Thursday. I would like to remind everyone that at one time the Riigikogu was in this way, including the IX Riigikogu, that two oral and arbitrary number of written questions could be submitted to the rapporteur. And then some minister stood here for hours, and they asked him a lot of questions. He had to read them first and answer them second. Reiljan, for example, stood there for six hours in response to my memory. They got rid of it. There was also a practice that when one person supported an amendment in the Commission, it was possible to put it to a vote. And then there was an envoy in the back of that line who made these proposals for 200-300 pieces, and then he rioted here, and he put them all to the vote. There was nothing anyone could do. Since then, we have this ban that, if one vote is only in favour of the Commission, the amendment is not to be voted on. We had this kind of thing, remember...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U79	But, Mr Stalnukhin, in the light of this historical background, will your procedural question come up? Okay, it's coming.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U80	Yeah. And there was a procedure like a competitive vote. It's kind of a madhouse I can explain, but you don't think it ever was. But he was. We got rid of it all. Given that the trend is that procedural issues become practically the main part of our work every week, perhaps the board is discussing that this should somehow be directed in the right direction, precisely in terms of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U81	Thank you. I also really hope that we will be able to go to the implementation of the sitting. I ask the members of the Riigikogu to go to this vote now. I believe that the procedural questions you have been having, I have answered as well as I can, as much as I have information, and we can move on to the trial. I'm going to propose this to you, and I'm going to make this request. A procedural question, Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U82	Thank you, President-in-Office. It's been a lot of times since we're going to get the agenda approved. And I would very much agree if I had the answers that have been asked here all along. And, well, the procedural question, if a member of the Riigikogu still wants to know about something, he must have this opportunity, and there is no other way I can see at the moment than to ask another procedural question. And my question is this: why are we still dealing with this agenda in such a way that we, one week, are dealing with draft laws when discussing both second and third readings, so fast? Why couldn't we have done this next week? Actually, you could. You said that the Commission has decided on this pace. Well, I see that we have different committees here: the Committee on Culture, the Committee on Social Affairs, the Committee on Monetary Affairs. It is very nice that such a principled decision has been made by various committees and that they have so nicely read each other's thoughts in sync. But I have doubts that maybe the reason is, for example, that it might have been some kind of cross-parliamentary decision. It could come from Stenbock's house, for example. Should the members of the Bureau stand on the side of Parliament, not the government, in such cases? How about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U83	Thank you. I honestly don't consider it a procedural question. But I think this is where we work as the legislative power envisages. Thank you. Martin Helme, a procedural question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U84	This relates to the previous question and to the questions that have been here before. What did we have an argument about on the board? The dispute was over the fact that the executive power pushes the Riigikogu at a pace that is inconsistent with the traditions and organisation of the Riigikogu. The biggest problem is that Riigikogu committees and members of the Riigikogu cannot deal with amendments to draft laws. In some cases, it's only been one day. And there is no real need for us to move forward so quickly. We violate the good practice of the Riigikogu and we reduce the possibility for members of the Riigikogu to become acquainted with the drafts. And we do it because executive power just snaps and says be it. This is not in line with the dignity of the Riigikogu as a constitutional institution and I therefore challenged it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U85	Thank you. Reuben Weightep, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U86	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! My question is once again strictly procedural. I would like to know whether it does not seem to you that the agenda proposed by the Riigikogu Board poses such a risk that if we do not reach the free microphone at all this week, the members of the Riigikogu will have to deal with the various topics and issues they would like to deal with in a free microphone, instead during procedural questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U87	Thank you. I don't think so. And I think that this question, of course, needs to be resolved, what happens if the free microphone moves over the middle of the night. But I don't think that's an insurmountable obstacle to us right now. And I really ask, honourable Members of the Riigikogu, that we move on to the implementation of the sitting so that we can begin today and this week by approving the agenda and then work on the basis of its approved agenda. Kalle Grünthal, the fifth procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U88	Thank you. I have a procedural question. Currently, the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act provides that the free microphone lasts until the speech requests are exhausted, but no longer than 24 o'clock. This is provided for in § 47.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U89	Mr Kalle Grünthal! I'm sorry, I'm gonna interrupt...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U90	Can I finish this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U91	Yeah, right away, but I answered that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U92	No, you didn't answer that question. § 47 says for a free microphone, it's on Monday. I mean, it has to happen. And until the last amendment, I think it was last year or I don't remember, maybe in 2019, there was a situation where Monday lasted as long as the voice requests of the free microphone were exhausted. Wasn't adjusted until 24:00. I have a question: one point of law calls for a free microphone round on Monday and another point of law, currently in force, says that it does not necessarily happen. Why are you following this last one now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U93	Thank you. I think you were talking about the second moment when it was really allowed to be in the house and in the office that the Monday session could, in principle, end on Tuesday morning at 10:00. Now that law has been changed. Tarmo Kruusimäe, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U94	Thank you, good Chairman! My procedural question concerns the free microphone. That's what I referred to a year ago when we went to long-distance sessions. It is now that the ambassador also has the opportunity to participate in a free microphone in the form of teleworking, and then he can use background music and perhaps background girls during his performance. But if I were to perform on the remote, would I be able to bring a portable speaker here, but I should give up the dancers? Why, then, is there no equal treatment for those who want to work on the ground and for those who work in the form of teleworking?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U95	Thank you. I don't consider it a procedural question. Helmen Hunter, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U96	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. I do indeed have a procedural question, because I cannot vote in favour of this agenda. This concerns item No 3, the draft law amending the Law on the organisation of health services initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws, the amendments of which were due on 6 April. On 8 April this bill was amended and supplemented with a number of points, and the title of this law changed, as there was a change in several laws. Now that there is a second reading and there is no interruption, a very large number of ambassadors have limited opportunity to participate in the drafting of the law. We cannot propose amendments. And if the third reading takes place on Wednesday, how is it possible if a certain part of the members of the Riigikogu are deprived of the right to submit amendments? That's all we're asking. Even if the proposals do not find the coalition's support in the Chamber, people should still have the right to table amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U97	I reply in such a way that the Commission has exercised the rights conferred on the commission by the law on the rules of procedure, including the right to decide whether to terminate or interrupt the second reading of the draft, when dealing with the draft and taking procedural decisions. How's it going this week... You said if we were not interrupted or if we are discussing this on Wednesday, but I would remind you that we do not currently have the agenda on which we are working. Peter Ernits, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U98	Good manager! I can't, like, put it on the agenda, because it's actually a complete rosolje. On the one hand, enquiries are flexible, while on the other hand, the regulation of the free microphone is rigid. And if multiple readings of several draft laws are made in one week, then it's so-and so-so. But the question is this: does this mean that the current administration of Parliament actually reduces the right of ambassadors to speak? He's just taking the chance.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U99	Thank you. I have not noticed that the current Board of the Riigikogu wishes in any way to reduce the opportunity for ambassadors to speak. There is certainly a need to act under the Home and Working Procedures Act and also to patch up or repair those places where there are problems. And one problem we're stuck today. But today we can't solve it. This problem is a free microphone. Priit Onion, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U100	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Same question as Helmen Hunter. We discussed this amendment to the Health Services Act last week in the Committee on Social Affairs. The chairman of the committee proposed that when the deadline for the submission of amendments was already over and the members of the committee were unable to submit and vote on their amendments. On the other hand, this amendment came from another law, the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases, which is why people are protesting behind Parliament's windows. We have no knowledge of that. And since we were working in three committees last week, we did not reach the end result, and this week we are not planning to solve it in the Commission, how can we support this weekly schedule, where certain things are to be adopted? And those problems that are on the streets, we do not even have a delicate feeling, as Members of the Commission, when and how we intend to solve these problems. As Chairman of Parliament, what do you recommend that the Social Affairs Committee do?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U101	Thank you. I think you're talking about bill 355 and its substance. This is indeed the place on which the representative of the Commission must give you answers. As I said in reply to Mr Hunt's procedural question: the Commission has the right to take decisions on the proceedings by exercising the rights conferred on the commission by the Law on Home and Rules of Procedure. Kalle Grünthal, please, the sixth procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U102	Thank you, Mr President. A free microphone is undoubtedly very important for members of the Riigikogu, the most important ways of expressing themselves. And now we are in a situation where one provision of the law obliges this free microphone to take place and another provision says that we may not be able to do so. You have now taken the view that we are applying this exclusion clause. But I'm offering you one chance. Either way, we're breaking house and order right now, but I'm offering you a chance to be a great statesman and make sure that the agenda items last until 24:00, and then there's a free microphone. What do you think of this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U103	Thank you. If this were the framework of the law, we could do it. This is not the case today, and right now, we'd be dealing with the future a little bit. With the future, in the sense that maybe we can process all the points nicely, even open a free microphone round. And as I've said, the pace that has been so far has been pretty fast. I believe that we can still, if we make an effort, do everything we have to today, 12 April, just as the rules of procedure and homework require. Lauri West Forest, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U104	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. I will continue with the problem raised by Helmen Hunter. You are saying that the Commission has the right to make such decisions and, in fact, in certain cases, this is very understandable. But this is a JOKK scheme, and I therefore have two questions for you. The Social Democrats have proposed an amendment to the draft, which first included the reimbursement of sick days. Now there is no compensation for sick days in this bill. First, tell me where the will of the members of the Riigikogu will be expressed. If there is a proposal for something that no longer exists, how will this proposal be voted on or discussed in the large Chamber? And the second question is: when you put the agenda on the board of the Riigikogu, were you and the rest of the Bureau aware of the problem that has now been created in the Committee on Social Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U105	Thank you. Once again, on a substantive issue, I am certainly not going to give you an answer here as President. These answers will be provided by a representative of the commission. A procedural question, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U106	I'm gonna keep doing the same thing. Actually, it's a serious story. Undoubtedly, the Commission has formally followed the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act, as it is possible, in principle, to add amendments by the Commission to any draft. In essence, it has been found in the course of processing so-called clusters that if they have been dealt with in such a way that practically the possibility for members of the Riigikogu to exercise their rights in lawmaking has been ruled out, this law has in fact been passed against the Constitution. This is due to the very simple understanding that the tabling of amendments, their voting, is actually one of the most important parts of a Member's mandate. We discussed it, by the way, when another draft was illegally rammed through the Committee on Constitutional Affairs here. This also limited the right of members of the Riigikogu to vote on amendments. It is now a matter of the government's proposal concerning sick days, which was contained in Bill 354. The Social Democratic Party Group, part of Parliament, proposed an amendment to this. This is a very important subject for us, and we wanted to debate it in the context of draft 354. The decision of the Government Union has taken this matter away from it in draft 355, but in addition to being removed from it, it is impossible for us to demand that our amendment be voted on in the framework of this draft. This could have been resolved, for example, so that the Government Union would have retained our amendment and would have been two competing amendments that the large hall could have voted on. As far as I know, such a proposal was made in the Committee on Social Affairs, but it was not supported. The question now is how the members of the Group of the Social Democratic Party have the legal right to propose and vote on amendments to the regulation of sick days.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U107	Thank you. I will also stay, Mr Ossinovski, to answer you with my answer. These are substantive questions, and they must be answered by the lead committee, not by the chair, who is really following, as you yourself said, procedural decisions. I have a huge request for members of the Riigikogu so that we can proceed with the sitting. And the next item concerns the vote on the agenda, the agenda we are working on. So, if that's possible, I'm very grateful to you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U108	Thank you, good Chairman! I'll pick up where the Helmen Hunter and Priit Onion and others ended. We had exactly the same thing in the group today. This is your answer, that we should now ask the Good luck Pillak all these questions, well it wasn't the decision of the Luck Pillak, but it was Siret Kotka's decision that it was done this way. Can't we have Siret Eagle here with your good support, who would still give us the answer to why such a maneuver was made? The amendments that we and the other members of the political groups have tabled do not, unfortunately, move along with this increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U109	Thank you. No, we can't, we don't have that uniform. But once again, it is not the Bureau's competence to go into the substantive recitals of the draft. The seventh procedural question, Kalle Grünthal. We're at least heading nine. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U110	Thank you, Mr President. I see in this problem concerning the attempt by the majority of the Riigikogu's board to close the mouth of the members of the Riigikogu. Just as on the street, at the initiative of your government, there is a repression of human demonstrations, which is contrary to both the Constitution and other laws. You have the opportunity, I propose once again, to be statesmanly and to apply this section to a free microphone, which allows ambassadors to speak. Otherwise, it is your censorship to close the mouth of unpleasant ambassadors for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U111	Thank you. I am not currently treating this as a procedural issue, and I stress once again that we work on the Board of the Riigikogu on the basis of the Home and Working Procedures Act, which can always be changed. Andrei Korobenik, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U112	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! I remember that § 74 actually regulates protest and questions about the organisation of the hearing. This does not allow for dialogue. But since your answers are so exciting, the ambassadors will have further questions and requests. Is it possible to consider the possibility that you will simply collect these questions and answer them at once? Then it is clear to everyone, everyone remembers the answers, and perhaps we can really move forward with today's agenda. This is all the more necessary because there are very important questions to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U113	Yes, I agree that there are important questions. I'm not going to give you the answer: I don't have that chance. Lauri West Forest, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U114	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. I will continue to come back to the 354 and 355 issues raised by Helmen Kütt and explained very well by Jevgeni Ossinovski. You haven't answered those questions. You are saying that these are substantive issues and that there is no need to deal with substantive issues at the moment, that is the Commission's issue. Look, I'm telling you, this is not a matter of substance. It's a procedural question. This concerns the agenda for sittings. This concerns the question that the members of the Riigikogu have proposed an amendment, but this amendment has vanished into thin air. The subject we have proposed is raised in the draft that is on the agenda today. But our proposal has not been included. This is a very procedural question, it concerns the agenda of Riigikogu sittings and, in fact, the rights of ambassadors, in this case the restriction of their rights. I still have a question for you, or two questions. One question is what you didn't answer earlier. First of all, when you proposed this agenda to the Riigikogu as a member of the Riigikogu and also of your board, in the form that it currently exists here, were you aware of what was done about these drafts in the Committee on Social Affairs? And the second question: can we now do anything under your leadership? You are the Chairman of the Riigikogu and your task is to ensure that such procedures do not go by the law. Do you see any way to do something about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U115	Thank you. I will continue to build on the fact that the Commission has exercised the right conferred on it by the Law on Home and Rules of Procedure in its procedural decisions. Indeed, it is not within the competence of the Bureau to go into the substantive recitals of the draft. Mart Helme, procedural, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U116	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Well, since your government has basically brought the police state to the threshold of the constitutional crisis in Estonia, I, too, planned to give a speech today in a free microphone. If the free microphone is not available, I will consider it precisely in this key that the agenda has not been filled out and therefore all that is on the agenda is illegal. And that is why I have a request: Mr President-in-Office, do not continue to numb, because we will continue to resist the numbness. Let's change the agenda!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U117	Thank you. I told you earlier, and I'm telling you, I understand that concern. If the legislative framework would provide this opportunity, as reported in the case of enquiries, it could be used. However, since the legislative framework does not currently provide this opportunity, unfortunately, it cannot be used. Will it be changed in the future? We have also discussed in the body of elders that domestic and working procedures should be discussed in the next generation. I think that this should certainly be resolved in the next composition at the latest, but why not in the past. Jevgeni Ossinovski, procedure, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U118	Thank you. It's really procedural now. In accordance with § 55 (2) of the Home and Working Rules Act, I propose that point 3 be removed from today's agenda in order to allow the Commission to reconsider the matter and, in fact, to include the proposals of the Social Democratic Party Group on sick days in the table of amendments so that we can discuss them correctly here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U119	Honourable Jevgeni Ossinovski! This is really a procedural question, and I take into account that your proposal is to exclude item 3 from the agenda of 12 April. Thank you. I'll come to that soon. Urmas Reinsalu, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U120	[[Remote connection]] Well, what can I say now? Besides Andrei, I think that this culture of procedural issues in our Parliament is still very streamlined. I watched Trump's impeachment on TV when they were in the Legal Affairs Committee. The American parliamentary culture is such that any procedural question within the Commission can be put to the vote and a presence check can be carried out before each vote. And everyone has to stand up and tell them whether or not they're there and whether or not they're in favour. There it lingered night and day. But, of course, if Members now wanted to paralyse Parliament's work, they would start making a lot of amendments to remove items from the agenda or to complete the agenda and to demand breaks. In itself, this week's agenda can be voted on infinitely: a point in, a point out, or the inclusion of something that is not on the agenda. These things can be offered infinitely. But the question is, one thing is cluster laws. Now, however, the viral law leaves some of its contents behind and moves into another law. And my question is the logic of the procedure. How does the President interpret the amendments made to the fact that the inside of the other law has been drained? If, in fact, this object of regulation has been moved elsewhere, set aside, then it is no longer in the draft. In this case, what should we do procedurally with these amendments? Can they be included in the table of amendments during this working week and be voted through?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U121	Thank you. I will reply by saying that this is a substantive decision of the commission, in this case the Committee on Social Affairs. Mart Helme, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U122	I propose, Mr President-in-Office, that you take a break, convene a body of elders and agree on what amendments it is possible to put the agenda to the vote today.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U123	Thank you for this proposal. Paul Puustusmaa, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U124	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. Basically, I came across the same question as Mart Helmeg's moment... [[The connection's breaking up.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U125	Dear Paul Puustusmaa, you are not to be heard. I think you need to talk more about the computer, then the connection's better. You see, here are also the technical questions of the remote session, in addition to the substantive questions. A procedural question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U126	Can you hear me now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U127	You are now perfectly heard when you look towards the computer screen, not to the left or to the right.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U128	Well, there you go. I said that I basically supported the same proposal Mart Helme made a moment ago. Because it is now based on the fact that the problem raised by Mr Ossinovski, concerning the deletion of the third point, seems to be not a proposal but a protest. And protest against Members being deprived of certain constitutional rights and the possibilities arising from the Rules of Procedure. And now the question is whether solving such a question is resolving a protest and which rules it must abide by. Or is it simply a change of agenda? How do you solve this? And wouldn't it really take a break?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U129	Thank you. I will not treat this as a procedural issue and I will begin the preparation of the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Martin Helme, member of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, suggesting that items 1, 4 and 5 of the Wednesday sitting be removed from the agenda and that items 2, 3 and 4 on Wednesday be moved from the agenda of the Monday sitting. Kalle Grünthal, procedural question, please! Mr Grünthal, I am very sorry, but we were already at the vote, and I do not, frankly, consider it very solid as President that you are asking a procedural question just a second before the vote. We've had procedural questions for a little more than an hour. Of course, that is your right, but with this you have put the entire work of the Riigikogu to rest. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U130	Thank you. The Estonian Conservative People's Party wishes to take a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U131	Thank you, Mr Grünthal, but this can be requested by the Group's leadership. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U132	So I'd like to take a ten-minute break right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U133	Got it. I'm declaring recess for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U134	The chairman's break is over. Let's get to the vote. I shall put to the vote the suggestion of Martin Helme, member of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, to remove the first, fourth and fifth items from the agenda of the Wednesday sitting and to move the second, third and fourth items from the agenda of the Monday sitting to Wednesday. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U135	With the result of 20 votes against 62 and 1 abstention, the proposal was not supported. Dear Riigikogu, let us move on to the approval of the agenda. Can we go to the vote? Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U136	Thank you. I'll take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U137	Helir-Valdor Seeder, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U138	Yeah, I have a procedural question. I didn't understand whether Mr Ossinovski proposed or didn't propose. Is that going to the vote?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U139	Thank you. Mr Ossinovski proposed. When speaking to him, we concluded that this would not go to the vote because Paragraph 54 (4) of our Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act states that, after the agenda has been announced, the draft will be removed from the agenda at the request of the initiator, the drafter or the commission. Where there are two initiators or performers, the request for exclusion from the agenda must be signed by both originators or performers, where there are more than two initiators or performers, more than half of the originators or performers must have signed the exclusion application. So, therefore, his proposal will not be put to the vote. And a member of the Riigikogu, Ossinovski, is aware of this. But now the break requested by the EKRE Group is ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U140	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! I am voting on the approval of the agenda for the 11th working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U141	The agenda has not been approved with the result of 56 votes against 29 abstentions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U142	Let us now begin the processing of the first item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the Bill 349 of Amendment to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubitsa, Member of the Committee on Culture, please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U143	Honourable Riigikogu! You have before you the draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, number 349, second reading. At the beginning, however, I will briefly introduce what is the content of this draft. If the corona situation does not allow old agreements to be implemented, this bill will give the Minister and the Government the opportunity to make the following changes. This empowers the government to modify the periods of exams that have already been approved, if necessary, and to determine the periods of additional exams of the State exams. If the government were to impose additional restrictions, this would provide an opportunity to separate the examination results from the conditions for leaving school during this academic year and, at all levels of school, including upper secondary school, to use a descriptive verbal assessment which does not need to be converted into a five-ball system. The bill passed the first reading. We do so as a matter of urgency, in order to avoid ambiguity and to empower one particular person in the form of a minister. This was the case at the time of the first reading and also after the first reading. The Committee on Culture received three amendments, all in time. The first amendment was that, as a result of the spread of the virus causing the COVID-19 and the restrictions on freedom of movement imposed by the Law on the prevention and control of communicable diseases and changes in the organisation of studies, subsections 5, 6 and 7 of this Act do not apply to the termination of upper secondary school during this academic year. Therefore, graduating from upper secondary school is not a condition for taking state exams, internationally recognised exams replacing them, school exams and student studies or practical work. The second amendment came from the Isamaa Group, tabled by Üllar Saaremäe. This concerns a point in the draft, which gives all levels of school, including upper secondary school, the opportunity to use a descriptive verbal assessment in the evaluation. Ask for this point to be removed. The third amendment is technical. As we deal with this as a matter of urgency, it concerns the time of entry into force. Now I will describe in a relatively detailed way what happened in the Commission, because it is an extremely important draft and everyone should have a clear picture of what happened then in the end. For the first time, we discussed amendments on 5 April. The chairman was Aadu Must, the chairman of the committee, and the members were Helle-Moonika Helme, Signe Kivi, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Eduard Odines, Heidy Purga, Üllar Saaremäe, Margit Sutrop, Jaak Valge, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi, Marko Šorin and Commission officials Urvo Klopets and Carina Rikart. Liina Kersna, Minister of Education and Science, Kristin Hollo, Head of the Foreign Evaluation Department of the Ministry of Education and Research, and Indrek Kilk, Adviser to the Legal Department were also invited. And according to the protocol, Marko Storm, a member of the Riigikogu, also participated. I cannot say whether he was specifically involved in the debate on this point or only sooner or later, but he was there the second day, perhaps the next day, when we dealt with the same point. It was simply that we were able to identify this committee a little later during the debate. Counsellor of the Public Relations Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu Liisa Johanna Lukk was also present. The Minister for Education and Science, Ms Kersna, explained what was the content of the first amendment and why it was important. He said that, as circumstances change rapidly and in a crisis situation, flexibility must be shown, the Ministry is facing the Commission with this amendment. In view of the epidemiological situation and the views of interest groups, the Ministry proposes to untie the exams this year from the conditions for graduating from upper secondary school. According to Kersna, it was a request from interest groups that the decision to allow school completion without examination would be made by the school's study council. This proposal, which was mentioned in the previous sentence, cannot be supported as it would create great inequalities between schools. Teaching councils can make different decisions about students in similar situations, causing much confusion and dissatisfaction. The intention of the Ministry's amendment is to make the most of equal opportunities for all students. Last year, 15% of those who gave up the Estonian language exam. In total, 7,000 students planned to pass the Estonian language exam, 15% of them gave up. The narrow mathematics exam was abandoned by 40% of potential players. Given the current situation, it has not been possible to allow students, even graduates, to contact training and the mental health stress is very high. That's what the Minister said. In addition, the argument of the amendment is that if the student does not need to pass the exam to enter the next school level and the student opts out of the exam, then fewer students will actually meet for the exam. All those who have not been able to prepare enough, or those who do not need the test result to apply for the next level of school, will have the opportunity to take the exam next year. The Minister, however, expressed the hope that the students who gave up will not be very many. The questions came from the first point, in particular Eduard Odines. According to him, a few weeks ago, the best solution, which was supported by stakeholders, was that the exams would remain mandatory. Odines asked me what's changed since then. In addition, Eduard asked whether the quitter had to give up once, and this applies to all state examinations, or three times. Eduard added that waiting for the test result is also tense and the student does not know until the last moment whether or not he or she will pass the test, in addition he or she is voluntary. Liina Kersna replied that the first agreement with the interest groups was a long time ago. As the preparation of the draft and the process have been lengthy, the situation has changed today. Students have had to spend a long time in distance learning and interest groups have changed their views. Kersna added that her own position had also changed as a result of the situation. He explained that the first state examination would take place on Monday, 19 April and that the test would take place this Friday. Students will generally learn the results of the corona virus test by noon of the next day. This is not an urgent test and the result is more reliable. The Minister reiterated that all those who are ill, in isolation or whose test shows a positive result will immediately receive a new examination period and confirm that they will be able to graduate with others and apply for the next schools. If the student does not show up for the exam, the result of the exam shall not be obtained and shall be considered as a waiver. Signe Kivi supported the amendment tabled by the Ministry. I went on to say that last year, however, there were a large number of candidates who had given up their exams. I already mentioned today how many of them were in percentage. It is very bad practice when a ministerial amendment comes in addition to a draft which needs to be dealt with urgently. In essence, this is a confusing legislative practice. There is a point in the original version of the draft, which says that it is possible to decouple the results of the examination from the conditions for graduating. In essence, this possibility exists in the draft. I asked why the amendment was better than the one in the draft. Liina Kersna agreed that this is not a good practice. At the same time, he explained that several interest groups urged the Ministry to make the proposed amendment. An initial proposal has been made at the time of drafting when the infection rates were significantly lower. The figures were very high when the draft came to the Riigikogu. The escalation took place very quickly and was not foreseen by the Scientific Advisory Board. Today we see signs of improvement and hopefully by 19 April, the situation has stabilised for the first exam. It was hoped that distance learning would not last that long and that contact training could be offered before the exam. This is not an option at this time. If the Riigikogu decides that an amendment tabled by the Ministry is necessary, there are all the possibilities available to graduates. Mr Black said that with the proposed amendment, the situation would become clearer. Eduard Odines said he's worried about the first exam, which is next week. Where there is an urgent situation, he asked if national restrictions were in force. Liina Kersna replied that she had consulted the Scientific Advisory Board on whether or not the organisation of the State Examination on 19 April was a high risk of infection. The answer was that the organisation of the state examination is not considered by the Scientific Advisory Board to be a high risk of infection if all safety measures are implemented. The Minister has confirmed that this will be done. At present, the infection rates are falling, and the Minister expressed his hope that this trend would persist. On 19 April, however, the exam will be carried out because there are a large number of those who take the exam. If you postpone all the exams, you can't guarantee that all the students will get the test results before 18 June. The School Psychologists' Association also confirmed that if the student is prepared for a specific date, the change of dates is more confusing. In addition, if the exam is to be postponed, we are talking about the first exam, then all subsequent exams must be postponed, and the whole system gets confused, which creates a high load and stress for all graduates. I pointed out that unfortunately, the scientific council has not been able to handle its communication lately. When a major infection occurs in some schools in April, the responsibility falls to the Minister, as the scientific council has given unclear signals. According to the Minister, the timetables should not be changed, but on the other hand, the Ministry is proposing to decouple the exams as the country is in a vague situation. I had the feeling that the minister was arguing with himself, and I asked how the idea of an amendment had arisen. Ms Kersna replied that the concerns of the stakeholders involved were high. They all say that the exams should take place, but in the current situation, students who do not need to take the state exam to attend school this year cannot be forced to take the exam. This is a real problem, not a fictional one. The situation was different when the draft was drawn up. Today, the effort is to offer as flexible options as possible so that students can complete the schools. And now I'm going to sum up briefly. As far as this first amendment is concerned, according to the original text of the draft, if the Government or the Minister provided that the additional restrictions imposed during the Korona situation would not allow for any further progress in the examination plans, the Minister would have the power to decouple the termination from the examination. However, this amendment does not give the power to do so, but it immediately lays down the procedure that this year's exams are essentially voluntary. And there is another point in this same amendment, its technical side, which was also mentioned in the Committee on Culture. The draft was submitted by the HTM, asked the Committee on Culture to deal with it as soon as possible, and immediately began to propose amendments. Legally, this is possible, but it still looks questionable. Another aspect, which is purely technical and concerns this amendment, is this. At the beginning, the Committee on Culture was presented with the proposal as an amendment to the HTM and can also be seen in the minutes. However, on Tuesday, the same proposal as the Commission proposal was voted on by a majority, which is legally correct again, but raised questions in the Committee on Culture, because the situation was not clear on Monday. And another important aspect: this amendment will enter into force with the law if it enters into force only when the first exam is over. Legally, this means that the first exam is, however, compulsory on the day on which it takes place. I'll pick up where I left off. On the next day, Tuesday, 6 April, there was another debate, but rather a vote. This time Helle-Moonika Helme, Signe Kivi, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Eduard Odines, Heidy Purga, Üllar Saaremäe, Margit Sutrop, Jaak Valge, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi, Marko Šorin and, of course, Aadu Must, who is chairman of the Committee on Culture, and Commission officials Urvo Klopets and Carina Rikart were present. Kristin Hollo, Head of the Foreign Evaluation Department of the Ministry of Education and Research, and Indrek Kilk, Adviser to the Legal Department, were invited. Mr Black opened the debate on the amendments, and this time our Commission adviser explained that at the time of the draft, there was a presumption and hope that it might also be possible to carry out the examinations in such a way that they would be a condition for graduating from upper secondary school. It has now become apparent that the fickleness of the school year can have an impact on the test results. The Ministry of Education and Research explained the reasons for this decision at the previous session. Thus, it is proposed that the completion of state exams, internationally recognised examinations, school examinations and student studies or practical work that replace them be separated from the conditions for graduating from the upper secondary school. However, some questions had arisen. Mr Odines asked what the Commission would vote on the Ministry's proposal has been amended in cooperation with the Committee on Culture. Mr Must explained that the Ministry's proposal, however, was a possible amendment to the Committee on Culture. Viktoria Ladynskaya-Kubits disagreed and said that she considered the proposals as proposals by the Ministry of Education and Research. Mr Odines asked why the Commission had not discussed the views of the stakeholders, as they could also have developed into possible proposals from the Committee on Culture. Mr Black said that all the opinions that deserve the Commission's trust were represented as amendments to the Committee on Culture. Mr Klopets added that Minister Kersna commented on the views of stakeholders at his meeting on 5 April. The Commission's wish to amend the draft did not come out of the debate. Ms Ladynskaja-Kubits asked whether it was possible, however, for the Ministry's proposal to be retained as a proposal by the Ministry, as it had not been presented to the Commission as a proposal by the Committee on Culture. The situation is not clear. Mr Black replied that this was not possible, and he proposed that the first and third proposals, drawn up in cooperation with the Ministry and the Commission, be tabled as amendments to the Committee on Culture. He put to the vote the proposal of the Ministry of Education and Research No 1, which is the very biggest amendment that I have presented here very thoroughly to you, as a proposal from the Committee on Culture. By Aadu Black, Eduard Odines, Heidy Purga, Marko Šorin, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi, Margit Sutrop and Signe Kivi were opposed by Helle-Moonika Helme, Jaak Valge, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits and Üllar Saaremäe. Mr Helme explained that he voted against the process and not against the content of the amendment. Aadu Black then put Amendment 3 to the vote so that this proposal would become an amendment to the Committee on Culture, and there was a consensus here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U144	Good waitress, your time is up. Do you need a lot of time? One minute? Please, just a minute!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U145	According to Aadu Black, the vote confirmed that the first and third proposals of the Ministry of Education and Research would be formulated in the list of amendments as amendments to the Committee on Culture. He then put all the amendments to the separate vote. The first amendment went through: by Aadu Must, Eduard Odines, Heidy Purga, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi, Margit Sutrop, Marko Šorin, Signe Kivi, against Helle-Moonika Helme, Jaak Valge, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Üllar Saaremäe. Amendment 2, tabled by the Isamaa Group, was rejected by the Committee on Culture. Helle-Moonika Helme, Jaak Valge, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits and Üllar Saaremäe were in favour of this proposal; Aadu Must, Eduard Odines, Heidy Purga, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi, Margit Sutrop, Marko Šorin and Signe Kivi were opposed to it. And the third amendment, i.e. what was rather technical, was fully taken into account. All the members of the Commission were of the same opinion. Finally, the Committee on Culture decided that the second reading should be completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U146	Thank you. You have questions too. Eduard Odines is starting.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U147	Thank you, Madam waitress, for this thorough review, which obviously also showed how much confusion there was about the entire draft with the opinions and proposals that once were opinions, there were proposals. But for me, the question is rather that the Ministry has repeatedly issued very different signals over the last month. The exams are optional, the exams are mandatory. And that's in a situation where the first exam is on Monday. How do you assess the Ministry's conduct on this bill? And what effect can this actually have on the first exam that will take place on Monday?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U148	As far as I understand my role today, I am not authorized to share my own views. But I have already explained in my speech that there was indeed confusion, and there were also many questions in the Commission. However, when we come back to why we decided in consensus that we want to process this bill very quickly, the reason is that we want to give as concrete a signal as possible of what the current procedure is. All those students who have to pass the exams this year, their teachers and parents, for them, must understand and understand the situation. However, I am concerned that even if we process this draft very quickly, the first exam will be over by the time we adopt the law and it will be in force.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U149	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U150	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I have a question of how this has been established in our neighbouring countries in a similar situation. Was it for discussion in the Commission? My wish is that Estonian students will not be in any worse position than in other countries where there may be more flexibility. Have international universities made any concessions, understanding that perhaps very many students do not get maximum points because distance learning is perhaps a little burdensome for talented people and, as a result, their test results are poorer. Universities may lose these talented young people who, unfortunately, simply fail to endure distance learning.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U151	Thank you for your question. We did not talk so thoroughly about the experiences of other countries in the Commission. However, it might be stressed that it is intended to postpone the English language exams so that they do not overlap with international language tests.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U152	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U153	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! According to the Ministry of Education and Research, preparations have been made to maximise the contribution to ensuring safe conditions for the examination. Among other things, the possibility of using rapid tests before the examinations is offered to further reduce the risk of infection spreading during the examination. Which rapid tests are to be used? What is this rapid testing methodology, and what do children need to be prepared for in psychological terms? What do they expect from this fast test?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U154	Thank you for your question. A little bit I've already told you in my performance. But when Liina Kersna introduced this procedure in the Committee on Culture, she said that, in cooperation with the Scientific Advisory Board, all seniors would be offered the opportunity for pre-trial testing. And it is not quick tests, it is a saliva test, which is much easier to organise and do. In cooperation with the Department of Education and Youth, schools have been given an overview of this, and in order to do so, I understand to make sure that this procedure is suitable for them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U155	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U156	[[Remote connection]] Honourable Vice President! Dear waitress, good fellow Commissionman! Viktoria, please help me remember, in your review, whether you stressed that it was not the Minister's own initiative to come up with such an amendment to the bill, but that, in the meantime, many target groups are directors, so-called school people have approached the Ministry with a request to make this amendment, to untie the passing of the exams. Indeed, this has led the Ministry to think and to respond, as schools attach great importance to it. Did you talk about it? Maybe I just didn't notice.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U157	Thank you for your question. Good Margit, I appreciate you wanting to support your party minister. Yes, I was talking about what was really being said in the Commission. Eduard Odines even asked how, at first, the interest groups supported one opinion, and then afterwards, I don't know, two weeks apart or three weeks apart, started supporting another position. Indeed, we have a list of the various opinions that were also submitted to the Committee on Culture. And it is true that many of them support this first amendment. However, there are other opinions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U158	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U159	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The Ministry of Education and Research has also carried out vaccinations for teachers and foreign observers of the examinations. Since the first exam is probably on Monday, I would like to know what the vaccination plan drawn up by the Government of the Republic will look at foreign observers. Have they already been vaccinated or are they just about to be vaccinated? How is their infection safety guaranteed during the examination, given that vaccination can lead to a large number of side effects? And are they even able to carry out any kind of observation after vaccination?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U160	Thank you for your question, good Kalle. This issue was not discussed in the Commission. At that point there was no information yet on the number of external observers tested and vaccinated.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U161	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U162	Thank you. Good waitress! Did you learn the logic of the Ministry of Education at the many meetings of the Committee on Culture where this issue was discussed? While the infection rates were extremely high, the Ministry had to issue a draft for compulsory exams, and now that the indicators have gone down, the Ministry had to propose to volunteer them. Was that logic observable in the Minister's answers? What understanding did you have of the Ministry's approach to these issues?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U163	Thank you for your question. That, too, I was actually talking about, in fact, that at least I, as a Member of the Commission, at some point in time, felt that the minister at times was arguing with himself. On the one hand, we cannot change the time of the first exam, for example, but on the other hand, we want to dismantle the exams at all because the epidemiological situation is difficult. Actually, if you think about it logically, the biggest question is just taking the first exam. However, with our own procedure, we are moving at such a rate that the first exam is essentially not very affected by this bill, although afterwards we must also take account of this first exam. However, on the day the exam takes place, this bill is not yet in force as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U164	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U165	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, We have here the front of the Euro-marionettes made a major breakthrough in the fact that the flags of the European Union came back to both the lobby of the Riigikogu and the White Hall. Has there also been any discussion that perhaps even the exams should take place in the light of and under the star flags of the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U166	Thank you for this question. No, such a question did not arise during the debate in our committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U167	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U168	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I have a question. We know that the procedure for conducting comprehensive school and upper secondary school examinations provides that if the student has received 1 point or knows 1% of the answers, the examination is completed. Now, under the conditions of the COVID, has there been some discussion so that we can make this whole ball system comfortable in that direction to bring it down? We understand that talented students may not survive these exam conditions. Let's say, if they still know 50%, for example, then we can say that they've passed the exam on the maximum points, if the others can just pass the exam by 1%. Well, that could be encouraging. Was this discussed in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U169	Thanks for the question, good Tarmo! That is the question I answered most thoroughly. This is essentially, in terms of its content, when the exam and graduation are not related.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U170	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U171	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I'm asking about the risks. Of course, I understand the reasons why you could volunteer to take your exams. And indeed, a young person who feels that he is not ready for the exams, maybe next year he will spend in the Defence Forces or engage in his mental health and wish to take the exams next spring. At the moment, a person is not ready to pass the exam because of this maybe incomplete preparation, distance training. But the preparation is probably even worse than the year since school. This time, in cooperation with universities, opportunities are offered to prepare for exams. Has there been any mention of how to mitigate this risk so that next year young people who do not want to take the exam this year, but want to do so next spring, will have these support opportunities?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U172	Thank you. That is a very good and probably very legitimate question. We very much hope that if this bill enters into force as a law, work will only start next year's planning. I hope that these risks, or even how to handle the exams next year, will be assessed and worked on by the Ministry either in the summer or immediately in the spring. I do not know what their plans are, but in the Committee on Culture there was talk about this, and Liina Kersna really admitted that in the summer we could discuss how not to get into the same situation next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U173	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U174	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! The question of a good colleague, Margit Sutrop, has put the Minister in a very bad light. The question arises as to why it has not been received from stakeholders before this reply that the Minister had to change his decision. But I don't know if you can comment on that. Perhaps the minister can tell himself why there was no decoupling from the beginning, if this was what the interest groups wanted before. But I have a question, what about them now? In view of the large spread of the virus, many will certainly receive a positive response during this mass test. It must traumatise the young, they go home with that answer, they'll be quarantined. They can't take the exam because they got a positive result. So what happens to them now? Isn't that the back and forth of these students? How can they take this exam next time, or how is this thing planned?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U175	Thank you, good Imre! I actually quoted what Liina Kersna said in the Committee on Culture. Indeed, he acknowledged that the situation had changed and that positions had changed. Once again, I quote: since the preparation of the draft and the procedural process have been lengthy, the situation has changed today. Students have had to spend a long time in distance learning and interest groups have changed their views. Kersna added that her own position had also changed as a result of the situation. But we can really count on the fact that interest groups were involved and sometimes perhaps the opinion really changes. Now, as far as the second part of your question was concerned, if the student turns out to be in close contact or sick. In fact, the original text of the draft will also provide an answer to this question. Basically, we empower the government to set the time limits for the additional exams of the state exams. If the student does not really have the opportunity to pass the exam immediately, then basically he should at least be given an additional period of time according to this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U176	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U177	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Today, I read the news that some universities in Britain were relaxing the requirements for the knowledge of spelling, because it was supposed to be a sign of elitism and people of other races, nationalities and poorer social origins make it feel bad. My question is: can our education policy also detect such tendencies that we lower the level because some of us feel bad?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U178	Thank you for your question. I think that the Committee on Culture did not address this issue in the way you have now put it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U179	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U180	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I have a question. I don't know if this specifically concerns these legislative changes, but the organizational side of the exams is. On several sides, the entrance exams are now held in electronic form and it is not really verifiable who passes the exam. Trying to identify the examiner so that he shows his face at the beginning of the exam, and then disappears the picture away, but later, whether it's done by siblings or parents, it's not verifiable. Was that what we were talking about? And would it not be possible to organise the exams differently in practice, for example, scattered and even over several days, so as to be sure that the students who should do this will honestly pass the exam? Did you talk about it or didn't you?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U181	Thank you for your question. There was no such question directly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U182	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U183	Thank you, good chairman of the meeting. Good Victoria! You said in one of your answers that the situation has changed and that is why it is very appropriate to change the organisation of taking the exams. In fact, I argue that the situation has not changed. As stated in this explanatory memorandum, the epidemiological situation remains very critical and the maximum implementation of all measures to prevent infection is necessary to protect life and health. Last year we were in exactly the same critical situation, and yet last year the Reform Party was very strongly opposed to changing the examination arrangements. Maybe you can tell me what might be the reason for this year's change of mind about the examination.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U184	Thank you for your question. I am talking here today, in particular, about what happened in the Commission. This means that I am not so much describing my position, which I am certainly and very happy to talk about on Wednesday, when it is the right moment and probably this third reading will come. Hopefully there'll be a third reading. But, in principle, Minister Kersna also admitted that to some extent this criticism is justified. Several members of the Committee on Culture had the understanding that we addressed this issue last year because the situation was unexpected and new for everyone and there was an urgent need to introduce some sort of new regulation. But this year, the whole system was supposed to be ready. We do indeed have a situation like déjà-vu, we are still in the same situation, both in terms of content and in procedural terms, if we are to deal with this draft as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U185	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U186	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good Commission waitress! I have a part of the question relating to this draft, and it concerns the same way in which students organise their studies and take exams on the road. Have you had a conversation with the Commission: I have been complaining about the alleged Data Protection Inspectorate saying that if the student does not want to take a remote examination with the picture, he cannot be obliged to participate in the picture. Has this been discussed in the context of this draft or any other draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U187	Thank you for your question. I think this whole issue will be discussed later in the Commission. Digital solutions, e-learning as such, in which it differs from home-schooling, still some schools, some parents, some students confuse these things. All kinds of digital solutions and their use, both from the point of view of the system and from the student's point of view, probably the whole package will be on the table of the Committee on Culture, perhaps a little later. I hope that we will have this debate. At the moment, we did not specifically address this issue in the framework of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U188	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U189	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Good Victoria! I apologise if the Commission did not discuss this issue at random, but I have been approached by the parents of the ninth grade graduates, as well as by some graduates. The question is that because they also have this final exam period and within 10 days they have to take a re- or re-examination if they fail. However, if you have just been quarantined independently of yourself or have been sick, you cannot take this final exam and take the exam. At least so far, the Ministry has not given sufficient answers to these parents or local authorities. Did you talk about it at the committee? I know the people of the ministry are listening to this debate right now. Please, if anyone has the opportunity to answer me this question after the hearing, I would be very grateful if you could also give the schools information on how children who fail the exam will be re-tested if they cannot do so due to quarantine.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U190	It would be nice if I could answer basically all the questions that are being asked in this Chamber. But I can only answer what happened in the Commission. In essence, questions can indeed be answered by the Ministry and, in particular, by the Minister, who is the most competent in this context. But as far as the good colleague Kalvi Tõvi is concerned, as far as I can see, you asked more about the final exams in the ninth grade, but this draft law concerns the gymnasts in particular. So I would still suggest that you address your question to the Ministry.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U191	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U192	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Now I have a question about this bill, and here I do not understand why we are trying to resolve such unforeseen situations by law? For what reason are these amendments written in the section of the law? Why is there no flexibility left for the government to organise these things in view of the current situation? Why does the law want to regulate this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U193	Thank you for that question. Good Priit, it really must be made clear that all the changes we are talking about here today concern only the processes of this year. We will not introduce anything that will apply in the next year or the next year. That's one. Secondly, according to the original draft, indeed we are essentially conferring powers on the government or on a specific minister. The Minister and the Ministry decided, however, that they do not just want powers, but that they want the Riigikogu to vote through and the Riigikogu to decide what the examination procedure is going to look like this year. In this sense, I think your question is justified and your logic, or your logic, is included in the draft text with Amendment 1. We will change this situation the way the Ministry of Education and Research asks.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U194	Good waitress, no more questions. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U195	[[Remote connection]] A good vice-chairman and good people who are watching us on the Internet! I don't understand this situation. If, now, in poetry and, let's say, to be more polite or politically correct, it's like the sun wants to rise, but it's not gonna get up and it's actually waiting for it to come up before nightfall if it's up to decide whether to rise at all. There are, of course, always two options. One thing is, if, for example, in the event of major events, the fighters spread the clouds, then right now the government might need someone to get the clouds together. Then the sun can say that I didn't really have to decide. I always looked, you just didn't see, the thick clouds were in the way. Priit Sibul has already pointed out this matter very precisely: why can't the government decide for itself, but we write it in the law? Imagine, maybe in four years we'll be adjusting to it, we'll have vaccines, everything, we'll treat it as a seasonal disease. Yes, people have to accept it, some are sick and some are not sick. Maybe there are other problems, but our requirements for taking the exams are still the same. Let me remind you that the most permanent things, after all, are temporary things. If today we are simply writing all these things into the law on the basis of the current situation, I do not believe that any new minister will come and say that these provisions are already out of date, they are essentially emergency provisions, but they are theoretically written in the ordinary situation, and since we now have a normal situation, we will take them out. They stay in and they allow different interpretations, which means that we, the old cultural people, are letting our bar down too much. I think it would be perfectly clear if the government were to decide these matters by means of a regulation and we did not have to constantly comply with these laws. It's not just one law, it's another. Today, it seems that our main steam is going to be the framing of the laws, not that we look at the current situation. In a week, we'll have our first exams. I think the minister should pick up and sign a document that says he's gonna do it. We put special provisions in, and I don't think we're ever gonna take them out of there. These temporary things, they're not Satan, but they're more universal. And it is very difficult, because then we have the following concept: it is 'justified expectations'. After all, all young people are extremely clever and wise. They know right away to look at all kinds of legislative changes, and they say that I knew from the fourth grade that we had laws like this, that in the ninth grade I could take exams under these conditions, that's why I've been trying. And now you want to turn the situation back somewhere in 2021, where there was a so-called "normal" situation, which in 2021 was essentially called an emergency situation. We have to decide whether the sun will rise or not. I find it difficult to support such a mess. I can't say... I hope that someone will take a break and simply enlighten me, which is what we are actually talking about, and what is our wish as ambassadors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U196	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We have also tabled amendments. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Culture and has been fully taken into account. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U197	Thank you. I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U198	Got it. Does Helle-Moonika have the same desire?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U199	Yeah, I have the same wish. Our group would like this amendment to be voted on, and there is a justification. In our opinion, this change gives too much discretion to the Ministry of Education and Research to act at will. Nor do we like the procedure in which this amendment was dealt with in the Commission. And I will also take ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U200	Okay, then there is a ten-minute break, but just a comment that it is enough to say that we want to vote. Reasons are not necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that we are voting on Amendment 1 on draft 349. It has been presented by the Committee on Culture and has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U201	Amendment 59 was supported, with 25 against. The amendment was supported. The second amendment, tabled by Üllar Saaremäe, is the proposal of the commission to disregard it. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U202	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U203	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U204	I'm asking for a ten-minute break because we still have to discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U205	Ten minutes of recess, please! Dear Riigikogu, we are going to vote on Üllar Saaremäe's amendment 349. The Governing Commission's proposal is to disregard this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U206	The proposal was supported by 28 against 60. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 3, tabled by the Committee on Culture, has taken full account of this. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U207	However, I ask for this proposal to be voted on and I will take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U208	Please, ten minutes of recess! Dear Riigikogu, I shall put to the vote before you a third amendment, which has been tabled by the Committee on Culture and has taken full account of this as a commission of directors. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U209	The proposal was supported by 75 members of the Riigikogu, 4 against, 5 abstentions. The proposal was supported. Ladies and gentlemen, we have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 349. We're done with second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U210	Let us move on to the second item on the agenda. Draft Act 360 on the Amendment of the Act on Creative Persons and Creative Associations and the Social Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. On behalf of the Committee on Culture, a second-reading report will be made by Heidy Purga. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U211	Dear Vice-Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, We will discuss the second reading of the draft law 360 and give an overview of what took place in the Committee on Culture during this debate. First of all, a brief reminder of what this bill is about. The law is amended so that additional funds can be placed in the reserve provided for by the law. The draft will allow creative support to be paid to a larger number of artists, and the conditions for applying for grants will be temporarily relaxed in the context of the corona crisis. The creation allowance shall be the minimum wage premium payable over a period of six months. Until the end of 2021, the requirement to not apply for a new grant in two years will be abolished. In general, this amendment has been positively assessed. However, let me be clear on what happened in the Commission. Preparation for the first reading of the draft was discussed in the Committee on Culture on Tuesday 23 March, including. After discussion, it was proposed that the draft be placed on the agenda for the plenary session on 5 April and that the deadline for amendments be set at 7 April. The shorter deadline for amendments was linked to the urgent adoption of the supplementary budget. It was decided to appoint a speaker to act as rapporteur for the Governing Commission. With respect to the shorter deadline, too. This was also the subject of an extraordinary vote in the Committee on Culture, which took place on 25 March. In order for this decision to move forward urgently, the members of the Committee on Culture adopted it in a consensual manner. The amendments were discussed in the Committee on Culture on 8 April and received three in advance by the Commission. Helle-Moonika Helme, Signe Kivi, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Eduard Odines, Heidy Purga, Üllar Saaremäe, Margit Sutrop, Jaak Valge, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi and Marko Šorin and Commission officials Urvo Klopets and Carina Rikart took part in the meeting of the Commission. Guests were invited, member of the Riigikogu Tarmo Kruusimäe, Head of the Legal and Property Management Department of the Ministry of Culture Merle Põld and art adviser Maria-Kristiina Soomre. The following is an overview of the amendment. The Commission has received an identical amendment from three members of the Riigikogu, Raivo Tamme, Tarmo Kruusimäe and Üllar Saaremäe. The proposers have agreed to consider them together in the list of amendments. In addition, the Ministry of Culture proposed two drafts. These proposals were of a technical nature. The first amendment, which was presented separately by three members of the Riigikogu, was treated as one because they were identical and the performers agreed to it. In short, their amendment consisted of an educational background for artists. The authors of the proposal said that, according to the Minister of Culture, while 6 000 people are in need of help in the creative alliances and some 5500 outside the creative federations, the Ministry of Culture currently lacks a lever and a mechanism to say that the creative person does not respond to the request. This draft will increase competition for support. The proposers believe that those who are in representative organisations simply contribute more. If the author has not done anything within three years, he should not be entitled to qualify for the grant. A meaningful discussion followed, which led the Ministry of Culture to state that the three-year requirement is also in the current law. Within three years, a creative person who is not part of the Creative Union must have created and made his works available to the public. In the case of non-animals, this is the first thing to be considered in the processing of the application: in which creative area they have created and whether it is unambiguous. If there are any questions, the Ministry of Culture will consult with the Creative Union. There are also negative answers, and if the answer is no, then there is a reason for which there is an opportunity to object. The authors of this amendment concluded that their aim was to draw attention to this particular concern, but if the law works, they will not see the problem. The Ministry of Culture agreed to the problem, but it did not find an immediate solution to it either. That is why the Ministry will now want to change this law radically at some point in the future, but with the current amendment of the law, it is primary in order for those in need to receive help. A vote was also taken on this amendment. There were 10 people in favor and 1 against. By Aadu Black, Helle-Moonika Helme, Signe Kivi, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Eduard Odines, Heidy Purga, Margit Sutrop, Jaak Valge, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi and Marko Šorin and Üllar Saaremäe were opposed. The second amendment is of a technical nature. This corrects the technical error in the draft law, which is due to the change that the Ministry of Culture takes over the requests of non-creative artists. It was therefore necessary to amend § 19 (6) which regulates how the Ministry of Culture pays creative grants. A vote was also taken on this amendment. It was decided, by consensus, to take full account of this amendment. The third amendment is also of a technical nature and concerns the time of entry into force of the law. As the draft relates to an additional draft budget, it is expected to enter into force at the same time. Since the additional budget will enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the State, it is proposed to amend the date of entry into force of this draft as well. According to the original text of the draft law, the deadline was 1 May, and now the aim is that the law will also enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the State. It is therefore necessary to amend the dates of the implementing provisions. There was also a vote here, and the Committee on Culture decided to take full account of the third amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U212	Kalle Grünthal has a question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U213	Thank you, Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Honourable waitress! I read in this explanatory memorandum that the Committee on Culture asked stakeholders for opinions on the draft, and it is noted that the Association of Estonian Architects was also asked. Please describe the opinion of the Association of Estonian Architects on this issue, which was particularly outstanding or emphasised there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U214	Thank you for that question. Since you have it in your bill, it's all right there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U215	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U216	Thank you. I would ask because I am a member of the Estonian Authors' Association. How much more money am I gonna get now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U217	Thank you very much for your question. But I can't answer that question. These creative applications will be accepted and dealt with by the Ministry of Culture or major creative associations, so everything depends on their regulation. We did not discuss this issue in the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U218	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U219	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. Dear waitress, The term "target group without a fixed employer" is used here. To understand this a little bit more effectively, please give an example or explain who this target group is. I know the number, but I'd just like to have some idea of myself, because I'm not a person in this field.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U220	Thank you very much for your question. You probably mean by that term those creative people who are not part of any creative alliance and are self-employed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U221	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U222	Thank you. Good Heidy! I was, of course, myself in the Committee on Culture, and I am relatively familiar with these issues, but still, maybe I missed something. Was there any mention of how the insurance of the Creative People's Health Insurance Fund was guaranteed? How are those who have no chance of receiving support with the health insurance fund, especially now under the COVID condition?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U223	Thank you for your question. I need to be more specific about this. If you agree, I'll answer you in person later.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U224	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U225	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! In fact, this draft, which I support with two hands, is probably long overdue. But my question is about what is so urgent, so fast, so urgent that we could not have done a second reading next week, as good practice demands. We would be on schedule, and this bill would enter into force exactly as expected. What's with all the crazy rushing?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U226	Thank you for this question. I am pleased to hear that you support this bill. However, as I said at the beginning, the second reading of this bill is one of them, which is why today this procedure has been so tense, because the opposition believes that the drafts relating to the adoption of an additional budget are being processed too quickly. However, the Commission has taken such decisions. And on the basis of the second reading of the 360 SE, it can really be said that the sooner the subsidies reach people, the better will be for all beneficiaries, as this will ease the difficult way these people cope in a crisis situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U227	Reuben Kaalep.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U228	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! It appears from the explanatory memorandum to this draft that the Association of Estonian Performers proposed that the additional resources for crisis assistance be used to cover the costs of organising the payment of creative support. Did the Commission discuss why the Ministry of Culture did not accept this and why the reasons of the Ministry were or were not adequate and thorough?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U229	Thank you very much for your question. Just as you yourself read the following lines in this explanatory memorandum, which are written in it, it says that the Ministry of Culture does not consider the use of this reserve for administrative expenses, as this money is intended solely for the payment of grants.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U230	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U231	Thank you. I am interested in the issue of Amendment 1. Since there are several creative areas where education cannot be obtained, for example, in Estonia, the representatives of the Ministry of Culture found that it needed a longer work plan, analysis, etc. They also admitted, of course, that there was a problem, but they did not support the solution of the matter in the manner set out in the amendment and the rapid amendment procedure. I have this question: if, in general, we have nothing more than hasty amendments to make lately, why do we not have to rush it? We still need writers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U232	Thank you very much, Mr Grünthal, for this question. You drew attention to the very right point. The Ministry of Culture has considered this change, or even this problem, to be important. That is why, in my report, I said that they intend to dismantle this law more precisely in the future and supplement it in this bill. The current legislative amendment is only linked to the crisis relief package and will therefore be dealt with in this case. But they've already begun this process.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U233	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U234	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Good Heidy! Did I get it right that since this grant distribution is entirely within the remit of the creative federations, all these regulations are probably different by union, depending on their bounty, the number of members, etc.? Thus, there is quite a degree of competence within the board of the Creative Union, which will ultimately decide how this grant is to be granted or what limitations the State will impose in this respect. Or did I misunderstand?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U235	I'm sorry, I didn't quite understand your question. What do you want to know?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U236	Please return the microphone to Imre Sooääre!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U237	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. The issue is about support for creative alliances. The question is how much competence the board of the Creative Union has in distributing these grants. Are these amounts going to be different by union depending on the Creative Union, their membership, the bounty, etc., or are they harmonised for everyone, so that there is no great opportunity for intervention under the Creative Union? That was my question. How much can the board of the Creative Union decide on these grants?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U238	Thank you for that question, good Imre Sooäär. I can say that the Committee on Culture did not discuss the activities of the creative alliances and these decisions so essentially. Apparently, it's mainly their jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U239	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U240	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! As a creative person, of course, I also support this bill. But I have a question about the division of roles between the Ministry of Culture and the Creative Union. Is there any change now in the distribution of subsidies, or is it going to continue according to normal procedures?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U241	As I understand it, it will continue according to the usual procedure. Thank you for your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U242	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U243	Thank you. I'm asking you to educate yourself. I understand all those artists and musicians whose creations are recorded or in certain material forms. But I ask you to explain how, under what tariff, the work of the Union of Dance Arts and Dance Education or artists in this field will be rewarded.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U244	Thank you very much for this question. I promise you that I will look into this, because this particular punch, rather than punch, was not discussed in the Committee on Culture, but this particular very specific issue. But I'm sure I'll give you an answer, I can even send it in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U245	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U246	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. It is true here that several of the answers did not come out of the question that there was no discussion, no specific discussion or, in essence, no discussion. This is, of course, very regrettable and is due to the fact that this bill was moving so quickly. We had a big debate on this issue this morning, or, sorry, this afternoon, when we started the sitting, in a very long and thorough way in the Chamber. The chair said that it was necessary to ask the representative of the Commission why they wanted to move forward so quickly with the draft. The nature of the second reading in the Chamber is to talk about what was discussed in the Commission, how it was discussed in the Commission and why it was discussed in the Commission. We still did not hear the answer to Henn Põllea's question as to why it was necessary to move forward with the bill so quickly. There is no urgency which, one week later, would not allow all these things to be done if this draft was adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U247	I thought that was a question. I'll answer again then. Thank you for your question, Mr Helme. As I said in my speech, first of all, when this question of the speedy procedure was voted in the extraordinary session of the Commission, all the members of the Commission voted in favour of this extraordinary speedy process. Such a decision was taken in a consensual manner and, therefore, with such dates, it will also be present in this large Chamber in the proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U248	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U249	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Heidy! I'd like to come back to the interest groups. Not everything in this explanatory statement. And I also don't remember having this discussion in the Committee on Culture. Well, there was a rush and everything, so not everything was discussed. Perhaps you can tell me what was the concern of the composers' association and how the Ministry wishes and seeks to resolve it within the framework of this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U250	Thank you for that question. Indeed, the Committee on Culture focused on three amendments, as you yourself know very well when you are present, and less on those proposals that came from stakeholders. These proposals are found in the EMS environment of the Riigikogu, so they can be viewed there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U251	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U252	Thank you, good waitress. The explanatory memorandum states that representatives of the Ministry of Culture confirmed to the Committee on Culture that the Ministry is planning a broader analysis of the law. Are you aware, or can you enlighten us, of the state of this analysis by now? Has there been any other feedback from the Ministry of Culture?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U253	Thank you for this question. At the moment, it is not, as this information arose at this sitting in connection with the amendment of the three members of the Riigikogu concerning this educational background. The Ministry of Culture acknowledged or announced that they were planning to unravel this law in connection with this and probably other points, but we did not talk about the timetable for this process at this meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U254	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U255	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I did not ask how the vote was voted, but my question was what were the arguments that it was decided to proceed so quickly with this bill. Let's put this argument aside, whether it was good or bad. But what were those arguments? If everyone voted in favour, then maybe there were some pretty good arguments, but I haven't heard them. Why don't you tell us about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U256	Thank you for your question. In general, the members of the Committee on Culture were in favour of the creative community needing this support package and the swifter delivery of crisis measures. That was the main argument. Thank you very much for your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U257	Paul Woodland.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U258	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. According to the explanatory memorandum, the Gender Equality and Equal Treatment Commissioner submitted a request to supplement § 19 (3) of the Act with the sentence "If the creative person has been on parental leave and/or has received parental benefits during the last three years, the three-year period is extended by a period of parental benefits or parental leave, whichever period was longer. " The Ministry of Culture explained to her denial that it was a good proposal, but it requires more in-depth analysis. Now the question is, what was this argument or what should be analysed in more detail here? Is it the person who is a creative person according to parental leave or parental benefit? Or what was the argument?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U259	Thank you for your question. This has to be specified by the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U260	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U261	Thank you. I would like to try to help, and as a member of the Committee on Culture, I would like to answer the question of where we are going. To make it look procedurally correct, I'm gonna ask Heidy if it was. In fact, there are those people who have a permanent income, or a permanent salary, and there are also state officials, senior public officials who are rising regardless of the crisis. But there are also creative people who, due to restrictions, have either lost their income at all or have fallen significantly. Since the Ministry's current account has the amount that the Ministry would gladly like to share, but the law was stuck and could not amplify it, it is only partly related to the additional budget, the second part simply expects us members of the Riigikogu to be able to adopt this law. That's why it's so urgent. And last year, I recall, there was a similar bill. Didn't you?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U262	Thank you for your help, thank you so much for helping me out. As I dealt with this at first reading, I was excluded from the description of the amendments to the second reading report.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U263	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U264	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. Good Heidy! Did I now understand your answer correctly that if I had a question about what was being discussed in the Commission, it was not the Members of the Commission who had to pay attention to it, but I have to address the Ministry of Culture separately in order to get an answer to this question? How's that going?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U265	Thank you for this question. That's not exactly how I thought you understood it. However, since it was not really discussed in such detail in the Commission, I can still clarify your question and subsequently answer it. Thank you for paying attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U266	No further questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish to negotiate, I will close the negotiations. Now we will also examine the amendments that have come to us. The first amendment, tabled by Tarmo Kruusimäe, Üllar Saaremäe and Raivo Tamm, has been rejected by the commission and the proposal is not to be voted on in accordance with § 106 of the Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act. The second amendment, tabled by the Committee on Culture, has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. The third amendment, tabled by the Committee on Culture and fully taken into account. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U267	I'd like you to vote on it and take a break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U268	The third amendment?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U269	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U270	Okay, then it's recess. How much? Two minutes or one minute? All you said was recess. Then there's a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U271	Dear Riigikogu, I shall put to the vote before you Amendment 3, which has been fully taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U272	76 votes in favour, no votes against or abstentions... I'm sorry! There were five abstentions. The proposal was supported. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading. We're done with second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U273	Today's third item is the draft law amending the Law on the organisation of health services initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws 355. The Social Affairs Committee's presentation is by Luck Hillak. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U274	Thank you, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will give you an overview of the preparation of the 355 second reading of the draft law in the Committee on Social Affairs. I would like to remind you that the draft law 355 amending the Law on the organisation of health services and the related amendment of other laws relates to the additional budget of the State in 2021, namely the additional funding of healthcare providers during the COVID-19 crisis. The Committee on Social Affairs discussed this draft again on 8 April and I will give an overview of what happened in the Commission. Siret Kotka, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, proposed to the members of the committee that the draft be supplemented by the provisions of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act, the Medicines Act, the Social Tax Act, the Causes of Death Act, the Health and Safety at Work Act and other laws which were intended to enter into force on 1 May. He asked for these amendments to be tabled on behalf of the Commission. It should be said that this amendment is necessary because we need to extend the reimbursement of sick days from the second day to the end of the year and do so before 1 May, i.e. this decision needs to be taken before 1 May. Initially, this amendment had been planned for the draft law of 347, but it has now been understood that this draft will not be adopted before 1 May. The question of the proposal proposed by the chairman of the committee was the members of the Social Affairs Committee, Helmen Kütil, Priit Sibulal, Kert Kingol and Siim Pohlakul. Since all these issues mainly concerned the procedure for dealing with an amendment to be tabled by the Commission, I have summarised them and will give a more precise overview. The questions were that who has proposed amendments, whether the amendment tabled by the committee after the deadline for amendments would still comply with the Riigikogu's Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, whether it would be possible to propose amendments to the draft 355, in which case the political groups would be able to change the content of the draft. The committee president, Siret Kotka, replied that the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft was 6 April at 5 p.m. and no amendments to the draft had been tabled at that time. For its part, the Steering Committee may propose amendments beyond the deadline for amendments. As the extension of the reimbursement of sick days from the second day ends on 1 May of this year, this is a time-critical change that needs to be adopted urgently. Hence the proposal to put these points into this draft. Helmen Kütt also asked for a legal explanation as to why, after the deadline for submitting amendments, the content of the draft text and the title would be significantly amended and supplemented. He added that removing the possibility of tabling amendments from members of the Riigikogu and political groups is not a proper procedure. Tiina Runthal, adviser to the Social Affairs Committee, explained that the Riigikogu's practice has had such cases in the past, but agreed that good practice would provide for the suspension of the draft. For its part, the chairman of the committee added that the Committee on Monetary Affairs should also interrupt the procedure for the additional budget for 2021, as they are linked. Siim Pohlak, member of the Committee on Social Affairs, also proposed asking for the opinion of the Bureau on the rules of the procedure for this draft. The Commission voted against the proposal, with 6 votes against and 4 in favour. Helmen Kütt also asked to clarify whether the points to be transferred to this draft could not have been put on the Commission's agenda on Monday 5 April. Siret Kotka replied that on Monday there was no knowledge needed to make a proposal. Before I go to the procedural decisions, I would also like to say that, during the long debate in the Commission, all the Members of the Commission have stated that it is essential to redeploy these points, because people who have stayed home because of illness should not worry about their income. However, if these changes cannot be adopted before 1 May, the current situation, unfortunately, that sickness days are reimbursed from the second day of sickness, will end. And procedural decisions. Having heard the questions and views of all the members of the Commission, the Commission decided to: Propose a draft to be put on the plenary agenda by today, 12 April 2021. The proposal was supported by 6 and opposed by 1 member of the Commission. Secondly, propose that the second reading of the draft be stopped. The proposal was supported by 6 and opposed by 1 member of the Commission. When the second reading is closed, it shall be proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and that the final vote be taken on 14 April 2021. This proposal was also supported by 6 and against 1 member of the Commission. Finally, as regards the votes, the Members of the Commission, Helmen Kütt, Kert Kingo and Siim Pohlak, did not take part in the vote because they did not consider the draft procedure to be correct. Thank you. I'm ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U275	And there are. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U276	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Your draft and the talk about it are very interesting. But my question concerns the amendment of the Health Services Organisation Act. In particular, you amend § 59 (2) and worded it as follows: "In preparation for emergency situations, in the event of an emergency and in response to an emergency, the Health Board:... " But I have a problem right now with the fact that the Prime Minister from your party, and for you, is constantly telling us about a medical emergency. As a stupid person, I'd like to know the difference between a medical emergency and a normal emergency. What law do these things rely on, and why have you not put a medical emergency in this [proposal]?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U277	Thank you, good questioner! I don't think you're a stupid person, so don't give yourself that kind of judgment. However, I must say that this issue was not discussed by the Commission in this draft. I can send you a reply in writing if you want, but I owe you right now. I'll write it down.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U278	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U279	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I myself am a member of the Committee on Social Affairs and rather dissatisfied not to use any more words, in the process of the procedure in which, on Wednesday night, the chairman of the committee sent his proposal, which we were to vote on Thursday. You indicated that the Commission or somewhere was aware that this Nets, some of which were incorporated into this draft health service bill 347 was introduced into bill 355[, could not be dealt with quickly enough]. It was raised here because there was an understanding that the law on the prevention and control of communicable diseases could not be dealt with. In the committee, the chairman of the committee used an interesting word such as "the space of knowledge." Did the knowledge you described that the Nets would not be reached [in due time] occur in the same knowledge room? Where is this room in Parliament? Then I'd know to stop by next time. Where is this knowledge, and when and how do you proceed with the Nets?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U280	Thank you, good questioner, for this question. As a member of the Commission, you also know how many amendments to the draft law 347 have been tabled. There's 169 of them. If we look at the pace of the Commission's procedure, we will see that we have not even reached the hearing of the parties' amendments by now. Since this bill has not moved forward at enough pace, there is no certainty that it will reach second and third readings before 1 May. In the Commission, you yourself understood the time-criticalness of why it is necessary to move these points into this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U281	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U282	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, First of all, thank you very much for your very balanced presentation of the Commission's debate, as well as the results of the vote, of how much was in favour and against. Neither the members of the EKRE nor I considered it possible to vote in favour or against such a draft, because we are not opposed to this being done, but certainly we cannot vote in favour of a procedure that violates the minority's right to propose amendments. Today, when the second reading is finished, we will no longer have this opportunity. But the question is that you said that there are a lot of amendments to draft 347 where all these things were transferred from. This knowledge also existed several weeks ago, because the deadline for submitting amendments expired a long time ago. Would it not have been more reasonable if Siret Kotka, although you could not answer for him, or if some member of the coalition had still tabled these amendments by the 6th? At least it would have been more accurate. It feels kind of bad right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U283	Thank you, good Helmen Hunter, for this question. As you yourself said, I cannot answer for the chairman of the committee, because I cannot tell you how he has decided to put together the Commission's agenda or why these choices have been made. I owe you an answer right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U284	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U285	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I'll keep asking you the same question, but you don't have to peek inside Siret Eagle's head. Can you tell us, for what reasons the Committee on Social Affairs did not add to this draft, given the urgency that you have put forward as an argument, the views of the Socialists concerning the reimbursement of sick days from day one and 100%? We have considered this issue to be very important in draft 347, we have expressed our legislative will there, and now the Commission has actually deprived us of the opportunity to take part in this debate. Why did the Commission not support this amendment being in front of us at the moment in the table of the amendments to this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U286	Thank you for that question. In the Commission, we also talked about this issue. I can immediately point out from the minutes to you that the Head of Secretariat of the Commission commented exactly on the same subject in such a way that, in this case, there would be one proposal in the text of the draft and another proposal in the table of amendments. According to the Rules of Procedure adopted by the Riigikogu Board, the Commission cannot table proposals that it itself has not supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U287	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U288	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I am very pleased that you are responding to me in writing, what is the term medical emergency, which the Prime Minister from your party, who is considered to be highly respected, is always using. I'm sticking to this medical emergency term. But my question is that I happened to be at the same committee meeting and had to defend the changes to the Nets draft. Since I am not a member of this committee, I could not speak about what I heard and saw there, but what happened was screaming physical violence, to quote film classics. But my question is, I'd like to know where to put the excavation, because I've never seen this kind of processuality.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U289	Thank you, good questioner! You can always contact the management board of the Riigikogu, for example, if you are not satisfied with the procedural procedures. However, I do not agree with this now that no one has physically harmed a member of the Commission. The fact that people were on the computer made it impossible. So let's just keep it right.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U290	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U291	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You said beautifully why the Socialist amendment could not be transposed: because [home] order prevents the Commission from making a proposal that it itself does not support. You said that you do not know why the chairman of the committee has done so, and that is perfectly understandable because we do not see into other people's minds. But I have a question: why did you not support the proposal to suspend the draft at second reading so that we could formalise it correctly? As you rightly pointed out, in the Commission, there were no complaints about the original version of this draft law, nor about the amendment by which we extend the payment of the sick leave until 31 December. The problem was in this same procedure. We could solve this if we interrupted second reading today, but you did not support it in the Commission. Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U292	Thank you. It's true I didn't support it. I did so because it is important for me that this important change concerning people's incomes, the incomes of people who are fighting a serious illness at home, be adopted on time. They need assurance that this requested extension to compensate for sick days from the second day would still be done before 1 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U293	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U294	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! I have a little bit here, I don't want to say that's a picky question, but [he's like that]. It's just that I want to understand some concepts. We have always had a problem here about how to understand a certain governance structure, who is still in charge of a situation. These situations are very different, we have a medical emergency here, and then we have a substantive emergency. If I look at this bill now, I can see that it says here that paragraphs 8 and 9 of § 59 are deleted from 'emergency medical officer'. I tried to figure out why it was left out, went around in the explanatory memorandum, but there's no word for it anywhere. Can you explain to me why this "emergency medical officer" is out?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U295	Thank you, good questioner! If we are now talking about this debate that was in the Commission before the second reading, I must admit that we did not discuss these issues in such detail. I myself have taken these points out of here, I just marked them out before. But, you know, in terms of saving your time as well as the time of all other colleagues, I will send you this answer in writing. These explanations are there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U296	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U297	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, As Priit Sibul pointed out earlier, and exactly as well as the good colleagues of the EKRE in the Commission, no one opposed that this [measure] would continue from 1 May to the end of the year. Everyone tried to find solutions, but these solutions were not found in the Commission. Even if the Commission had voted in favour of this proposal by the Socialists at its meeting on sickness benefits, which was transferred to the draft, where it did not exist before, and which was accompanied by several more laws, and voted against in this Chamber, it would have been possible to develop a debate. I have a question. I know how everyone voted, 6: 4, the result is clear: 6 opposed these proposals and 4 opposed or vice versa, according to how it was necessary. The proposals that were sent to us at 11:22 a.m. were Siret Eagle's proposals, so was the title. Did the Reform Party not know that such proposals would come?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U298	Thank you for that question. Like you, the members of the Reform Party Group, together with all the other members of the Commission, received these proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U299	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U300	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I wasn't in the committee myself, but right now I hear that the process of processing this bill was still more than weird. I am simply asking whether interruption and re-reading were also considered in the Commission, because we know and see that the title of the draft and the content of the draft have also changed considerably.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U301	Thank you, good questioner, for this question. This issue was discussed, but [disruption] was not considered necessary, as I have already said here, because the extension of sickness benefit from day two is an urgent decision that needs to be taken. That is why most Members of the Commission did not consider it necessary to interrupt.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U302	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U303	Thank you. So I'll just pick it up right there, really, this part of sick days is urgent. It's perfectly understandable. But since some of the substance of this bill comes from bill 347, I'm asking you, you're a lawyer, what about the 347 now. What form does this take?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U304	Thank you, good questioner! This question should be submitted to the chairman of the committee, who will also determine the pace of the procedure and the agenda of the committee in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U305	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U306	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. That's another question I had. Unfortunately, I am somewhat dissatisfied that the explanatory memorandum to this bill does not provide solutions. If you're looking for something, unfortunately, the explanatory statement doesn't answer the question. For example, why § 4 (2) of this Act enters into force in January 2022, while the law itself probably enters into force in May 2021. There is no answer to that in the explanatory memorandum. Can you explain that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U307	Thank you. I will also send this answer to you [later].
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U308	Evgeny Ossinovski has a procedure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U309	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. It is about the procedural issues of this draft that the content was raised from one draft to the next. When Jüri Ratas was the chair of the sitting, I asked him about the way in which the legal rights of the members of the Social Democratic Party Group were guaranteed in the procedure for the draft. He said at the beginning of the sitting that these were substantive questions that the Committee on Social Affairs had to answer. Now that we have the representative of the Social Affairs Committee before us in the context of the procedure for this draft, he says that the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee should be asked instead, because he does not answer such questions. Would the President introduce us to the format in which we can ask questions from the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee or from other people who are willing to answer these substantive questions, which have not been answered by either the Commission rapporteur or the Chairman of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U310	Thank you. The recommended format is the address of the political group to the Riigikogu Board. I think it's the most appropriate format. Of course, the chairmen of the committee can always be invited to visit the political group and still try again to ask questions to the representative of the Commission, through their fellow political groups. I see that was not an exhaustive answer. Evgeny Ossinovski again, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U311	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I thank you for that answer. As the procedure for this draft is currently under way, I would like to know exactly what would be the [recommended] way of addressing the Board of the Riigikogu at the moment: do you, through your person, so that you take a break and call a meeting of the board, or how can we get the answers to these questions operationally? We have made very important amendments to this very important issue of anti-virus control, which concerns sick days, and we want to debate them in the Riigikogu. But from one bill, this body has been evicted and put somewhere else, and our proposal is hopping! It's just gone. I think this is a very gross violation of our procedural rights, and someone must answer that question. The Chairman of the Riigikogu says that this is a committee matter. The representative of the Commission says that he will answer everyone in writing and, in fact, ask the chairman of the committee at all. How can we go from here?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U312	Unfortunately, it is not my competence to convene a meeting of the Riigikogu's board; it can still be done by the President of the Riigikogu. And the meeting was just held, on Thursday the Riigikogu Board met and there had been a verbal protest about what took place in the Committee on Social Affairs. But on the basis of the initial information, we were assured that there had been no violation of the Rules of Procedure. Well, there's good practice. What are the solutions? There is no doubt that there is one way to propose that the political group should be interrupted, which has already been received from several groups. Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U313	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! We are dealing with a really important matter here, but we are making decisions in a dirty, hasty way and in a way that one law should not be made under any circumstances. Is this mystical word structure, the meaning of which no one has yet understood the meaning of the "medical emergency" or any other incentive, behind the panicking rush of the government and the nasty passing of the bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U314	Thank you, good questioner, for this question. The answer to your question is that it is not. The urgency of this amendment is, as I have said here many times, the need to extend the reimbursement of sick days from the second day.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U315	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U316	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I will continue where my colleague, Paul Puustusmaa, left behind, perhaps the role of emergency medical director. We saw how, last spring, when Dr. Arkadi Popov played that role, he succeeded and how things went after he stopped fulfilling that role. I am asking whether the question of the role of the medical director of this emergency, which is announced for medical reasons, would not have been an important discussion within the Commission in the context of this health service organisation law. Why didn't it go any further?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U317	Thank you, very good question! But unfortunately, I owe you an answer. However, as the Commission's debate had focused on very procedural rules, this issue was not really discussed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U318	Paul Woodland, procedural, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U319	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President. I really do have a procedural question, and this time I'm definitely on the boat of Evgeny Ossinovsky. I am also interested, in principle, in a situation where it can be seen that, in the process of dealing with the law, it has actually been completely brutally and completely rudely rolled over all our good practices and regulations. Now the situation arises that, when the Social Democrats quite rightly ask, what can we do now, it turns out that their only option is to follow one procedure, to propose an interruption. But it's completely impossible to pass, we know what the result is. Is it really not possible to use any procedural route under the Home and Working Procedures Act, so that the Social Democrats can now have an exhaustive response to what should be done in order for the Riigikogu to comply with the Home and Working Procedures Act? And now it turns out that, in fact, even you, a good manager, cannot convene a meeting of the Bureau to resolve this matter. It's a very strange situation. How is that to be understood? What are the solutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U320	Thank you. I myself believe that the most appropriate solution is for the group to protest to the Bureau. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U321	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Since you do not want to give answers to these questions concerning the democratic principles and the procedure of our Riigikogu, I ask one substantive question that you may be able to answer in such a way that you do not say that I will answer in writing or someone else will answer. Why, in your opinion, is the government so stubbornly opposed that the corona positive and their close contacts will be compensated from day one for 100% of their previous salary so that we can finally control this virus? There are all sorts of strange arguments. As the lead judge of your Social Affairs Committee on this issue and as a member of the Reform Party, why do you not support the fact that the corona-positive receive 100% sickness benefit from the first day of illness?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U322	Thank you, good questioner, for this question. Yes, I could reply to you that the Commission did not discuss this issue during this debate, but I am not doing this because, with regard to the reimbursement of sick days, the Commission discussed this issue for a very long time on 23 March in the framework of the draft law of 347. There said the union representative Mr. Peterson... I'm gonna find his quote. Wait a minute! There was the same question as to why such stubborn opposition to the reimbursement of sick days from day one. And there Peep Peterson recalled that this draft, i.e. from the second day of illness, the draft reimbursement was based on a tripartite agreement, preceded by a long and thorough discussion of the interests of all parties, and the solution found helps to better regulate the current situation and is also sustainable. It was recalled that this was a tripartite agreement between employers, trade unions and the state and that it was proposed to prolong this particular situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U323	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U324	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I ask you that your explanation of why you do not support the socialist amendment to bring about this package and to address its concerns is that in a crisis situation, you think it is very important to extend the second day compensation for sick days [fast] to ensure people's income. So it's a "goal dedicates the means" kind of solution. In democracy, the regularity of procedures and the rules are important. What subjects, areas or questions do you think are those that do not have to follow the rules?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U325	Thank you for that question. However, this issue does not in any way concern the debate on this draft in committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U326	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U327	[Leave where I left off] Your answer, of course, saddened me because your committee should discuss how to manage this crisis more effectively and what lessons we have learned during this year, when we have fought the crisis, how to reflect them in the law. In the Committee on National Defence, we are not discussing how to fight this crisis. I do not really have a question, but I am simply saying that if you do not come to the substantive issues, we will not be able to manage this crisis any better.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U328	Thank you. I will, however, respond to this comment. If this concern is as great as you have meant on two issues, wishing for a very substantive analysis and discussion, the same amendment was discussed in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu at the end of March in the first reading of the 347 bill, but I reviewed the verbatim report and did not notice that you or your groupmates raised this concern at the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U329	Paul in the woodland is a procedure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U330	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President. Indeed, I have a procedural question. I'm trying to find out. I am very disturbed and amazed by what the Social Democrats have now pointed out about the Commission's sitting and how the crossing has taken place. This is completely undemocratic. And because there is clarity, because it is necessary for clarity, you yourself told me, in answer, that this problem can only be solved by protesting. And now I ask: is this a protest that is meant by § 65 of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, which says that the President of the sitting, in this case you, can take a half-hour break in order to resolve the protest and, if necessary, call an extraordinary meeting of the Commission? Is this the same opportunity?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U331	No, I didn't mean that kind of protest. I meant a different protest, a different procedure. The Management Board monitors that the work of committees and Riigikogu is in accordance with the law on domestic and working procedures as well as good practice. The information we received at the Bureau meeting on Thursday was primary and very fresh information from the Commission. Based on this initial information, we didn't come to the conclusion that any rules had been broken. If more detailed and more detailed information is needed now, then surely the Bureau can discuss it. Jevgeni Ossinovski, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U332	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Procedural indeed, but now on the core issue of § 101 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures. I understand that the representative of the Social Affairs Committee argued that the procedural rights of the Socialists in changing the sickness days system could not be guaranteed because the last part of Paragraph 101 (1) states that the amendments made by the commission itself are entered in the text of the draft. But at the same time, the same comment [of the provision] says that, in fact, the lead committee has a wide-ranging competence in dealing with the draft between the first and second readings, in fact, it is in full hegemony status in this context. And it is not said anywhere that the text submitted to second reading could not contain conflicting or competing proposals that the Riigikogu can change in one way or the other in the vote on the large hall. Is my interpretation correct so that, in fact, the Socialist Committee could have taken account of the Socialist proposal and included it in the text, so that today it would have been possible to vote on it here too?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U333	Yeah, as far as I can interpret the Home and Working Procedures Act, as you said yourself, the Commission's ability to design the text or propose amendments is very broad. Nothing stopped it, it is a matter of political choice. Kalle Grünthal has a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U334	Thank you, Mr President. It is not rare for me to be forced to stand up for the rights of the social democrats, too, and specifically for the circumstances mentioned by Helmen Hunt, in which the standards of the process are seriously violated. When I asked the esteemed waitress, Luck Hill, what would happen, how to protest this thing, I received a very vague answer, and I am not satisfied with it. The question is that if such crossings are going to take place in committees, figuratively speaking, there will be nothing left of our parliamentary legislation. I have a question, Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu, that it may be possible to find out what the rules of appeal are, so that we can no longer emptiness and listen to the comfort of such a waitress, so that you can submit a protest to the Riigikogu, what will it do if we deal with this draft today? I ask you to solve this issue so that you take some sort of break as you see fit and find out how these things are, because I feel that Helmen Hunt has been very badly harmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U335	Thank you. I'm not taking a break, though. The Bureau meeting is tomorrow; on Wednesday it is expected to be at third reading. Maybe we can do something before Wednesday. Kalle Grünthal again, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U336	Thank you, Mr President. I understand that tomorrow is the third reading, but today is the second reading, and if we break the standards at second reading, then it will become a standard and no one will pay attention to the standards anymore. Moreover, I did not receive an answer from the President of the sitting to the question of how this appeal procedure will still be conducted if an infringement has been found. We're not going back to the second reading from the third reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U337	I'm sorry, there's no record of tampering. There is an argument as to whether this should have been or should not have been, but there is nothing yet identified. Of course, the Riigikogu will always have the opportunity to remove the chairman of the committee if the chairman of the committee abuses his power. There are all kinds of procedures. I can't put them on the list right now. Jevgeni Ossinovski, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U338	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. I, however, take the view that the Board of the Riigikogu is obliged to comply with the rules of law procedure in substance, not only in form. And, in essence, it is clear to everyone that, at this point in time, the right to debate and vote on its amendments has been taken away from the group in the processing of one proposal. In such cases, § 107 of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure has been provided for. Paragraph 1 of this paragraph states that the Riigikogu interrupts second reading without voting on the proposal of the commission, the initiator of the draft or the management board of the Riigikogu in order to find a reasonable solution for this type of mess. Now, you offered to write the letter "Muff, to demand" and we'll see on Wednesday. But how can it be achieved that the Board of the Riigikogu proposes that we interrupt the second reading today and involve all the amendments that were made to the debate on sick days correctly?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U339	Yeah, that's a very interesting question. Then the Riigikogu Board should meet before we finish today's second reading. My idea is that the Riigikogu Board could have discussed this tomorrow, but once the second reading has been completed, it can no longer be done. Unfortunately, it is not possible for me to convene the Riigikogu's board. Even if I took a break right now, it would just be a break. I agree with Mr Ossinovski that, indeed, in a rather ugly way, the possibility of simply voting on one of the amendments has been taken away. Helle-Moonika Helme, procedural, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U340	Thank you. I understand that there has been such a degree of rigour here, but I am still going to ask you, at which stage, you can even lodge a complaint or a complaint with the Bureau about what happened in the Commission. What are the consequences of presenting it between second and third readings?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U341	Thank you. No official protests have been received from the board. Following the meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs last Thursday, a verbal protest was received and, on the basis of this information, we had no grounds for not putting this draft on the agenda or not considering it to be properly dealt with at the Bureau meeting. The board can always be contacted and protests can always be submitted to the board. The Governing Board meets regularly on Tuesdays and Thursdays, but in urgent circumstances, the Governing Board may also meet more frequently. What if the second reading is over and all these protests have not been processed? I don't have the wisdom for that. In this case, it is likely that the initiators will still have to withdraw their draft or simply vote down their draft at third reading. Alar Laneman, procedure, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U342	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. I was wondering how to ensure the quality of the sessions. The rapporteur's response to a good colleague, Leo Kunnas, was about the idea that since my good colleague had not asked about the medical emergency manager in the past, from now on, no one will have the opportunity to ask more about it. Is it that the committee determines the time within which a member of the Riigikogu may ask and when he may not ask and on what subjects [he may ask]?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U343	In fact, the fact is that whether or not a debate has been launched on the subject at some point in the past, or whether or not there has been a similar or different view at some point in the past, there can certainly not be an obstacle to continuing the debate or to correcting its views in the event of a change of circumstances. Indeed, as chairman of the meeting, it seems to me that there is a great deal of murmuring about the fact that the waitress does not provide substantive answers. I ask the waitress to try to provide the most meaningful answers possible. Evgeny Ossinovski has a procedure, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U344	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President of the sitting. Well, now we're getting to the bottom of it. Indeed, this is an urgent matter. You rightly said that members of the Riigikogu have the right to address the board. Muff had the right to write his own letters as much as he wanted. But the question now is what? The question is, as you rightly said, that if the second reading is completed today, this draft must no longer be changed, there is no way to change this draft. Since no one in Parliament wants to end on 30 April a more favourable reimbursement of sickness benefits, no one, of course, wants to keep this thing going. We Social Democrats want sickness days reimbursed from day one and 100%. This is our amendment to this draft, which has fallen out for technical reasons. I call on you, in this situation, to take a board break and propose that the Chairman of the Riigikogu convene the board, interrupt the second reading and make [this draft] quickly siuh-äuh! We'll get this over with in the next couple of weeks.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U345	Thank you for this proposal. I have, unfortunately, a premonition of what the real result of taking this break is, so there is no point in me taking this break. Paul Woodland, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U346	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President. Once again, I have to say that Evgeny is right and, in fact, Kalle is right. Indeed, we know what will happen after the second reading is completed. And indeed, the law of the house and the rules of procedure still provides for an opportunity, exactly as Evgeny said. One thing is the reference to § 107 of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, which gives one opportunity to resolve this matter, and, however, also § 65, which provides for the possibility for the Bureau to take a half-hour break in order to discuss this protest. [[The connection's breaking up.]] ... could draw further conclusions. It still exists. It is not right to leave this matter in the air now, but indeed, we must take a break, discuss this matter on the Board of the Riigikogu, and then we can move on. I think that would be the only sensible thing to do right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U347	Thank you. I'll consider it. Helle-Moonika Helme, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U348	Yeah, that's exactly the procedure I want to go on with. You said you were considering taking a break, and I strongly suggest you consider it. I support Mr Ossinovski here so that you can take a break, convene the board and propose to the President of the Riigikogu that this matter be resolved jointly. It was said here that perhaps this result is not exactly what we all expect, but I would remind you that both the Chairman of the Riigikogu and the vice-chairmen have a duty to stand up for the good practices of Parliament, how I say, for us, not to try to do something here, I don't know, outside the parliament, looking towards Stenbock.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U349	Thank you. Let's hear the following procedural questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U350	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I admit that I am not very well aware of this, but in the light of this adoption of the agenda in the morning or in the south, we are on one of those drafts that should be sent to life on Wednesday. Now, by reading all the improvements that should be made, [I have a question] why we are not withdrawing this bill now. It's so unbalanced. What's the rush? The corona isn't gonna go away anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U351	The proposals for interruptions have been made, and we will reach them in the negotiations. But I have a feeling that the chairman of the committee would like to give an explanation under the name of a procedural question. Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U352	Thank you. I understand that the question here is that it is not exceptional enough. Let me give you a few examples of last year's Riigikogu practice. In 2020, the two drafts were actually dealt with in the same way as the Social Affairs Committee has today dealt with [draft 355]. The second reading of the draft 257 was accompanied by a temporary regulation of sick days by January-April 2020 on a proposal from the Social Committee. And to remind you that I thought it was in June when draft 194 was added at second reading to the Alcohol Act and Income Tax Act, proposed by the Committee on Finance, in order to harmonise the rules. They were dealt with in exactly the same way as has been done today with compensation for sick days, so that this temporary regulation can still continue from 1 May to the end of the year. Yes, it is urgent, it is necessary, and the Social Affairs Committee saw that this is the only way forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U353	Thank you, Siret Eagle! Tarmo Kruusimägi is a procedural one.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U354	Thank you, good vice chairman. The story Siret was about to say was what really gave the MPs the opportunity to propose amendments. At the moment, the substance of the draft was actually moved to the second draft without amendments. My procedural question is this:, knowing that some part of the draft may be taken of the content and transferred to another part of it, should the MPs propose amendments to other drafts, just in case, although the Commission may say that they are not related to this draft? But we never know whether the amendments will be moved around. We are dealing with the need for ambassadors to have an inalienable right to propose amendments to the draft. This is, in my opinion, the deepest substantive issue of this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U355	I would like to point out that this amendment, which has so-called been left behind, is not lost, but is simply not being dealt with at the moment at the rate that would be necessary for it to be put into effect in good time. This amendment, in itself, has not gone out in any way; it simply fell off the cart with the second draft. Jevgeni Ossinovski, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U356	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Well, you see, the President of the sitting, he himself realizes that he fell off the cart, which means that this is a competing proposal to solve the same problem, that is, how we deal with sickness benefits in the event of a coronal epidemic. The government has offered 70% of the second day. We think it is unfair, unethical and ineffective, and we have offered our vision that it should be 100% of the first day. It is clear that in two months' time no one will consider it as an alternative to [our proposal] if we have a decision made and the [reimbursement] is set at 70% of the second day. So the real debate is here today in the framework of this draft, because the Committee on Social Affairs decided so, but we have been deprived of the right to deal with it. In fact, the chairman of the committee raised half of the argument. Indeed, there have been other cases in which a question has been added to the draft, where it has been found to need urgent regulation. But then it was simply added as a subject to the existing draft and, in fact, everyone accepted, we also accepted that this issue would be resolved within the framework of this draft. It's a whole different situation right now. It has been declared that the issue of sick days will be resolved in the framework of draft 347. We have tabled amendments on this, we have proposed an alternative solution. But then this issue was lifted out of there and it migrated into the second draft, partly in order to actually miss our amendment. And that's a violation of our rights. This is a completely different situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U357	Thank you. Reuben Weightep, procedural, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U358	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. I, too, would like to express my support for the idea that it would be good to at least try to discuss this issue on the Board of the Riigikogu before completing the second reading. This is because we are still dealing with a rather fundamental issue of constitutional law, which concerns the role and functioning of Parliament and good practice. I don't think you can take things like that lightly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U359	Thank you. Helmen Hunter, procedural, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U360	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. If you consider taking a break and if you come to the conclusion that this should be done, and you call good colleagues and they come together, then I think it is a very important procedural question for the sake of clarity of the truth that who will assess whether the Commission could have brought [a socialist proposal]. I hope that Mr Hillak nods that we discussed this proposal by the Socialists [transposition]. After all, a good fellow Member, Priit Sibul, suggested that the Commission bring [also above the Socialist proposal], since this is precisely the amendment that was introduced into the current draft, the reimbursement of sick days. The Commission's explanation was that it cannot be said, as the Commission can only bring forward proposals that have the Commission's support and that the Socialist proposal cannot receive this support in the Commission. And as a result, [it cannot be transferred]. Now, the interpretation of Jevgeni Ossinovski is that it can also bring competing [proposals]. Who evaluates this? That's what we're arguing about right now. If it had been transferred and voted on, well, then, but we would have had the opportunity to explain, debate and ask for a vote. This, in my opinion, is what we currently have inconclusive and unanswered: can there be a proposal from the Commission or cannot there be a proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U361	Thank you. Riho Breivel has a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U362	[[Remote connection]] I, too, strongly support the fact that...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U363	I can't hear you, Riho.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U364	[[Remote connection]] The question is...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U365	Riho Breivel!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U366	[[The connection's breaking up.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U367	Mart Helme has a procedure. Riho Breivel's connection has been cut.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U368	I would also like to draw attention to the compliance of some of the other committees with these procedures. In fact, if the committees follow procedures and do not make them numb, they do not run over the opposition and dissent, there are not so many procedural questions in this Chamber either. So if you, honourable members of the coalition, complain about these many procedural questions, first blame yourself.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U369	Tarmo Kruusimägi is also a procedural one. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U370	Thank you! I have a procedural question that it may be time for us to inform the public, too. Clearly, the Chancellor of Justice does not sign this Constitution, which concerns precisely the fact that the MPs cannot propose amendments to the law, and obviously the President does not declare this law. It should be our duty to ensure that those people who hope that this bill will be dealt with quickly are aware that better days are waiting for their own time. Here I have the question: could we, as a Riigikogu, in any other way offer a hand to those in need? There's been a recess recommendation today or something else. We're in a new situation. We may like it, it's JOKK, but the Chancellor of Justice and the President won't sign it. This [proposal] will come back here. But that means we've broken it. Does the board have a solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U371	Thank you. To solve this debate, my powers and my mind have run out. But I'm gonna take a 20-minute head break to contact the rest of the board. 20 minutes break, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U372	Ladies and gentlemen, the break is over. During this intermission, the Riigikogu's board met, the murmurs and reproaches in the hall were discussed. It came to the conclusion that, for all drafts, the lead committee has a very broad second reading power to decide on its content, inter alia, to amend the draft and to amend it even after the deadline for tabling amendments has expired. It was also concluded that the Socialists' proposal, which was missed here, is still in the process, albeit with regard to the second draft, and therefore no one has been deprived of the opportunity to make an amendment or vote on an amendment when this draft arrives in this Chamber. Believe me, if I had any reason to challenge that decision, I would have, but I didn't see it. Helmen Hunter, procedural, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U373	Thank you very much. I believe that if you had the chance, you would have. But to draw my attention, or rather to the question of whether the Commission can also bring forward opposing proposals against each other, i.e., as proposed by the good fellow of Priit Sibul, to bring the Social Democratic Party's proposal specifically on this point into this bill, although the Commission does not support it, did it find a debate? Or the issue of who gives an answer to the question whether the Commission can bring forward [the proposal] only if there is support from the Commission. [If the Commission's support is necessary, then] this means that all members of the coalition who are members of the Riigikogu in this committee can make changes after the deadline for submitting proposals, but opposition members cannot make them if it is the case that the Commission must support these proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U374	No, the ambassadors cannot propose amendments after the deadline. The Commission itself can, but of course the Commission is made up of people, not trees. The proposal must be formalised as a proposal from the Commission, which must have the support of the majority of its members. Let's just say, yes, it depends on the angle you look at it. After all, the Commission is a collective body, and the Commission's decision must be backed by a majority. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U375	Thank you, good vice chairman. Let me get this straight: if, for example, the government has brought us a draft and there are amendments to it on some point, but the government takes this point out, these amendments will also fall out. Thus, the Bureau's debate, which was apparently constructive and fruitful, is, unfortunately, empty. This is because this second draft, since it no longer contains this [point on compensation for sick days], is also the [social democrat] amendment that falls out in this form. Am I on the right path to my own debate?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U376	Not exactly. The amendment remains. The amendment has been tabled on the second draft, but this second draft has not yet reached the second reading of the large Chamber and not even the second reading in the Commission, as I understand it. The amendment itself has not disappeared, but it is moving forward with a draft law to which a group wanted to change this amendment, but could no longer do so. That's where we have this argument. Of course, it is always possible for the group to initiate a completely separate draft or to make an amendment with similar content on any other draft which is currently under way. Such opportunities are currently not limited. Priit Onion, procedural, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U377	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. I have a procedural question that can be useful to all committees in the future. Helmen Kütt has said here a few times that I have just made a proposal in the Commission to bring this amendment to 347 draft 355. However, we were given a reason and an explanation that it would not be possible for the Commission to bring a change to the large hall in such a way that it would bring it to the large hall, although it has itself opposed it. Is that a false statement? Do I understand [right] that, if we want to meet [the minority] in the future [in a situation where] the majority of the Commission has a different understanding, but it is intended to ensure that [all] Members have the opportunity to discuss their proposals, that if a road roller goes over this way, this road roll could also link these [the minority] amendments and still vote on them in such a way that the Commission brings the amendments to the Chamber, even though it itself has not supported them?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U378	As far as I can see from this description, this argument was not correct. The Commission can put any change in the draft at second reading, whether it takes it from another draft or it writes on the spot. However, it does require a majority of the members of the Commission, otherwise it cannot be a proposal from the Commission. It seems that the procedural [questions are out]. Oh, no, it's not. Indrek Island still has a procedure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U379	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. I would like to ask you for a moment about the decision you just made on the board. ... [[We're breaking up.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U380	I'm sorry, I think we've lost communication. Shall we try to restart the Indrek Island connection once again? Can't see and can't hear. Let's try to reconnect with Indrek Island once again. I'll take a two-minute break to get the machine fixed. What's going on? Now, let's try to get back in touch with Indrek Island, who had a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U381	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for giving me that opportunity again, and I'm sorry that the Internet service failed me. Greetings to a company called Elisa. But it was probably my fault that the connection was cut. My question is derived from § 107 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, which gives the Bureau the opportunity to interrupt the second reading. Comment No 2 to this provision states: "The right of the authority to propose an interruption is necessary to enable the management to resolve the congestion created by political confrontation in the work of the Riigikogu. For example, the decision of the Governing Board to interrupt the second reading may be a condition for ending a long-standing obstruction. " In light of this comment, did you also discuss the possibility of interrupting this particular bill? We can see that on this day alone we have been dealing with the agenda of the Riigikogu for more than an hour, mostly in connection with this bill and the procedure for processing this draft law in breach of procedures and the right of delegates to propose amendments. Just as we have been in the process of this draft for over an hour now, and most of our questions continue to concern these procedures. Did the Bureau consider the possibility of resolving this political confrontation, which could also be called a long-standing obstruction?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U382	Yes, the Bureau considered the possibility of interrupting this reading with the Bureau's decision, but this proposal was not supported. We did not, indeed, consider it in the light of the long-standing political confrontation, but in the light of whether the rights of members of the Riigikogu have been violated. Indrek Saar again, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U383	[[Remote connection]] Yeah, but then maybe the current board should fill out what is the solution to this political confrontation? And secondly, it seems to me that this obstruction has been going on for quite a long time, so you could still stop reading the second reading to solve it. Would you make this proposal to the Bureau again? Or can you tell me how long the obstruction should last, in accordance with the comments of § 107 of the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure Act No 2 for a long time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U384	I don't think it makes any sense for me to go back to the same story we just finished 20 minutes ago, which concluded that members of the Riigikogu had been able to propose improvements. These amendments are still pending and the political groups and members of the Riigikogu have the right to submit amendments to the law. I dare not give any definition here at this time of what is a long-standing obstruction, but I dare to assume that a one-day intensive dispute over procedures does not exist. Evgeny Ossinovski has a procedure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U385	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Since I had problems with the Internet at first, I asked over, is the interpretation of the Bureau such that the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs that it was not possible to bring the Socialist Amendment to the vote here today is actually wrong? Maybe it was possible, but it was decided not to do so on the basis of the wrong arguments.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U386	Thank you. I have to admit that this particular issue was not discussed at the moment. The Commission's discretion at second reading to amend the text of the draft law was discussed and found to be virtually unlimited. So the [Commission] argument, it seems, has not been sincere. So, it seems that procedural questions are now exhausted and we can move on to a round of questions [to the rapporteur]. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U387	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! The draft and amendments mention data, health data and data systems and those responsible for them in several places. Has there been a question of liability and the possibility of data leaking? What is your opinion on this? I am also referring to the fact that in 2020, 9100 people's personal data leaked from the Health Board. There were both the results of the corona samples and the data on close contacts. Has this matter been under discussion?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U388	Thank you, good questioner! In the context of this debate, the Commission did not discuss this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U389	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U390	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Well, you will now see what happens if the coalition, with total neglect, uses a road roll policy and violates every possible good practice in the Riigikogu. You have explained all of this here by being quick and fast and ensuring that people are safe, so that they can still get their money. In fact, if this bill had been handled normally, it would still have been done very nicely without such questions being asked here today. My question is why the second and third readings were to be done one week. This is also a violation of good practice. The next week could have been a third reading, even then this draft could have been handled nicely by the end of April. What's with the crazy rush?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U391	Thank you, good questioner, for the question. As far as this good practice is concerned, that there has been no second and third readings in the same week in the past, it was sufficient for me, a few hours ago, to change the number of years taking out the verbatim on the Riigikogu website, and it turned out that in April 2020, the second and third reading of the corona-related drafts were largely the same week. I just thought it was necessary to say it in a reply. But to your question, why did the Commission decide so, I would say that this was the proposal of the chairman of the committee, which was supported by the majority of the committee members.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U392	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U393	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good waitress! People have been very angry on the streets for weeks now and are afraid of moving towards a police state. And now this bill is with that 347, I don't know, at least close relative. My question is that this bill is not what you might call a smaller version of the Telescopic and Dog Bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U394	Thank you for your question. This bill has nothing to do with the events mentioned here that have taken place before the Riigikogu in recent weeks.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U395	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U396	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! My question is on the amendments. I expect the Commission to have discussed all these amendments beautifully. However, I would like to clarify a little about the amendment of the Social Tax Act, in section 3, point 3, the words 'worker's illness or injury' are replaced by 'worker'. In Article 3 (18), the words "sickness or injury" are deleted. What makes it so general, just "worker"? If you think about the tax laws, I think this illness and the injury will narrow it down a little bit? It's very general. What could be the justification?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U397	Thank you, Mrs Aart, for this question. I will pass on the debate that was in the committee before the draft was sent to the second reading of the Chamber of Riigikogu and, unfortunately, we did not discuss this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U398	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U399	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I actually come to a question that has already been asked, but no answer was received. Of course, if we do not have the opportunity to debate our substantive proposal, I will ask you because you represent the Commission here. The question was, why are you so stubbornly opposed to making up for 100% of the first day of sickness? Please no longer quote Peep Peterson's statement in March, because we all received on 4 April a joint statement by entrepreneurs and trade unions, in which they ask us, i.e. the Riigikogu, to consider the possibility of compensating the sick days from the first day of illness. The question is this: why are you so stubbornly opposed? You yourself said that you would like to help people who are suffering from the disease as soon as possible and as well as possible. Why are you opposed to this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U400	Thank you, good questioner! Absolutely, we want to help people, and that is why the speed of the procedure that has been criticised here today. And once again, I am here to pass on the debate that was in the Commission before this bill was sent to this Chamber for second reading. In this process, this amendment, in this form, was not at issue, and we could not, in essence, discuss the pros and cons in the committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U401	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U402	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good Commission waitress! Since the Commission introduced these sick days into [this draft], it cannot be said that you had little discussion in the Commission and could not answer anything precisely. I'm still asking you about the compensation for that first day of sickness. I am sure you had a debate in the Commission on this too, this is such an important matter. Some people who work for a relatively small salary have asked me: "Dear member of the Riigikogu and dear lawman, what will happen if I have to be isolated at home because I got sick, and as a result, if this happens six times, for example, I lose hundreds of euros? So where does the money come from, or how do I pay off my utilities? " What would you say to this man? What must this person do, who loses hundreds of euros because of isolation and illness, because there is no compensation for the first day?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U403	Thank you, Good Kalvi Tough, for this question! Once again, I am not here today to comment on my own personal opinions. I am the rapporteur for the commission, whose task it is to pass on the debate that took place in the committee during the procedure of the draft before it was sent to plenary for a second reading. At this meeting, compensation for sick days in this form was not the issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U404	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U405	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for the floor. Dear waitress, I am very sorry that you do not really want to answer the question of why you are opposed to compensating for sick days from day one. All the more so when we look at our northern neighbours and our southern neighbours, they do. One of the neighbours may have been doing this all along, but everyone else has done it precisely in the context of the corona. I guess that makes sense. I don't know why we're swimming against the river. I would be very pleased if you would, however, provide a substantive justification for this. But my question is, did you discuss in the Commission what will happen from the draft law of 347, on which the Social Democratic Party has proposed this? When can we discuss this amendment within the framework of this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U406	Thank you for that question. We did not specifically discuss what would happen next from the 347 bill and at what pace [it will be dealt with]. But what I can tell you is that the Socialist proposal, which has been much discussed here, was actually discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs, I am currently in debt to the date, but most of the members of the Commission did not support this proposal at the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U407	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U408	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I would still like to ask again what the Commission's debate was. Why do we need to deal with this bill so quickly? Why is it not possible to allow members of the Riigikogu to process it within a reasonable period of time, as good practice requires? Please do not mention that this was the decision of the chairman of the committee. Talk about whether there was a debate about whether it might still be possible to discuss this matter within a reasonable time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U409	Thank you for that question. This is the reason I actually mentioned in the introduction to my presentation. The reason was that reimbursement of sick days from the second day is an urgent decision that needs to be taken before 1 May. That's why these procedures.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U410	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U411	[[Remote connection]] Good waitress! My question is based on the answer you gave to my colleague Riina Sikkut some time ago during this very debate. He asked about the ethical aspects of this draft procedure and its compliance with the good practice of the Riigikogu. You replied that this has nothing to do with the debate that took place in the Commission. My question is: what is the Commission's position on what conditions call for a breach of good practice in this case? If you also want to answer me that this was not discussed by the Commission, I ask why the Commission did not discuss it, although this is obviously the most controversial issue we have had in the whole debate on this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U412	Thank you, good questioner, for this question. I would point out that Riina Sikkut asked for my personal opinion that which rules could be interpreted a little more widely, what good practice could still be broken and under what conditions. Indeed, the Commission did not discuss my personal opinions. However, we were talking about the fact that such a procedure was not illegal, but it was said that it really violates good procedural practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U413	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U414	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good waitress! I have a few questions. For example, here [the draft states] Paragraph 591 (4) (3) of the Health Services Management Act is worded for some reason , and I ask why: "data and invitations describing the treatment process and the state of health of the patient are relevant to the patient's medical data'. In the context of the amendment of the Cause of Death Act, the issuing of a notification to the relatives is worded as follows: "The death statement and the death statement of the deceased person shall be issued to the person referred to in subsection 6 (1) of this Act from the health information system. " Why is such changes urgently needed?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U415	Thank you, good questioner, for this question. However, on 8 April, when the Commission discussed raising amendments to the draft law 355, this issue did not come up in the committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U416	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U417	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable performer! How do you see whether the Commission Chairwoman understood what was being discussed, what is at stake for working people, people who were ill, or did he simply act as a staunch tin soldier on the decision of the Coalition Council within one week to deal with this draft of any quality?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U418	Thank you, good Mart Helme! This issue was not discussed by the Commission either. And in this case, I really [must repeat], as I have already said, that I am not here to evaluate people's actions, but to pass on what the Commission discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U419	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U420	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Dear waitress, Here [the draft states that] § 59 (2) is amended and worded as follows: "In preparation for emergency situations, in the event of an emergency and in response to an emergency, the Health Board:... " And then there are five points that the Health Board has to do when preparing for an emergency, etc. As an emergency person, I look at it and I find that the way to say it, the set of tasks is not exhaustive. Did you look at and consider these issues more widely in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U421	Thank you, good questioner, for this question. No, on 8 April in the Commission, we did not look at them or consider them more broadly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U422	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U423	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I would like further information on the use of data, because it is a very sensitive subject and we have had real cases that data has been lost. Are you aware of the argument on which amendments 10 and 11 are based, which refer to the retention of data and invitations relating to ambulance cards, treatment queues and digital registrations for a period of five years and the retention of verification certificates for a period of two years? What arguments do such storage periods rely on given the real risk of leakage?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U424	Thank you, dear waitress, I'm sorry, dear questioner. Words are already getting messed up. Indeed, at its meeting on 8 April, the Commission did not discuss the question you asked more widely, but as a kind person, I will send you the reasons that you can actually look up in the explanatory memorandum.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U425	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U426	Thank you, Mr President. Madame waitress! I am very sorry to hear, in fact, that you are answering almost all the questions that you have not really discussed. Of course, I have the most heartfelt issue of sick days, but I understand that you have not really discussed this issue, either, and that as a coalition agent you ran over the opportunity to discuss it at all. As we understand today, everything is legally just as correct, even though I have some doubts about it. However, you mentioned on several occasions today that this issue, although not in the context of this draft, but in the context of other drafts, has been on the table and you have had the opportunity to discuss it in the Commission. And as I understand it, you personally don't think too much about making up for 100% of your sick days from the first day. Or what is your personal position on this matter? I am asking because you have discussed this in the Commission and probably voted on it. Why are you so stubbornly opposed to helping people further?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U427	Thank you, good Eduard, for this question. I am absolutely not stubborn, but I am now based on what the Riigikogu law on home and working procedures says. I am here as a rapporteur for the commission, who will pass on what was discussed in the proceedings on this draft when it was prepared for a second reading to the full chamber of the Riigikogu. We did not discuss this issue there, nor did we discuss my personal views.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U428	Indrek Saarel went in here before the numbers shifted with these procedures. Indrek Saar, second substantive question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U429	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Very good observation from the President of the sitting. Indeed, that is my second substantive question. My question still concerns the same sick days and is in some ways a question of what Mr Odines has just asked for. You yourself have repeatedly pointed out that you have been in the Commission at the substantive discussions on the reimbursement of sick days since the first day. I have not been present in these debates. As a colleague, would you be so kind as to explain to me who I do not understand what the substantive reasons are for not compensating for sick days from day one? Could you explain to me what these arguments against the first day of sick payback were most pronounced?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U430	Thank you, dear questioner, for this question. I previously answered this question and pointed out what has already been heard repeatedly in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, the same tripartite agreement that was made last year and is now being extended. The Social Committee has not received a proposal from the parties to the agreement to amend this agreement. We did not discuss this issue in such detail in the proceedings on this draft when we prepared it for a second reading to the Riigikogu's full room.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U431	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U432	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good waitress. You replied to me that the Commission acknowledged that the procedure for this draft goes against good practice. As this is to some extent a precedent-creating decision, I ask you to extend this view. Therefore, do you consider it possible, or does the Commission consider it possible, that we will continue to have drafts that go against good practice? If so, what are the reasons for going against good practice, and under what circumstances should good practice not be contradicted under any circumstances?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U433	Thank you, good questioner! Yes, it is true that the Commission has recognised that the procedural procedure for this draft does not correspond to good practice. But you pointed out that this would be a precedent that never existed before. This is not true, however, because, as has been pointed out here before, a similar practice was used in the second reading of draft 257 and draft 194 of the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U434	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U435	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. A very honored waitress! I'm a little worried. Concerned about the fact that our Prime Minister has very well described his strategic approach to fighting the corona apandemia, and some of his most important starting points were that we all need our contribution here, that the crisis is resolved from the bottom up, and that we do so together. The Commission seems to be doing the opposite. I have a question: did you realise in the Commission that, apart from this very sensible and very practical proposal, you would undermine the government's strategy to fight the corona?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U436	Thank you, dear questioner. Well, yes, indeed, the Commission did not discuss this issue with regard to this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U437	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U438	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! During World War II, Estonian soldiers used trenches rolling tactics, which meant that the grenade was in place and the bony came on. Very effective, no prisoners taken. It seems that the government has taken the same tactic towards the Riigikogu and is thus trying to conceal its inadequacy, weakness and absence. But the question I have is that you mentioned the correct tripartite agreement here on several occasions. However, we know that paying the sickness allowance from the second day does not make the sick happy and that the trade union tent is hardly very happy. And we know very well that employers would also prefer the government to pay compensation from day one. Please tell me, you've been discussing what the government's arguments were not to pay that money. You were discussing something practically.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U439	Thank you, good questioner! Yes, in essence, we discussed what the purpose of the Commission's amendment is. This proposal is aimed at ensuring that, as a time-critical issue, the decision to continue the reimbursement of sick days from the second day is taken before 1 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U440	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U441	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good waitress! You see, the opposition is never satisfied. Some say that the government does nothing, and others say that a terrible number of decisions are made and roll over the Riigikogu with a roller. So now you understand how this is really happening. But my question concerns those sick days again. You and I are also ladies and gentlemen at the Tallinn City Council and we had the same vote there on Thursday evening. All the members of the Reform Party who were present, with the exception of Mr Ligi, voted, as I recall, to compensate for the sick days from day one. Mr. Ligi was the only one against, you were in favour. That's how I remember it. You said here that you can only talk about what happened in the Commission. I respect that. Did the same members of the Reform Party in the committee who had voted in favour of compensation for the first day of sick days in the sub-urban area demand that they want to vote for the same thing in the Riigikogu and want to vote for it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U442	Thank you, good Raimond, for this question. No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U443	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U444	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr. President. Good Commission waitress! We are still talking about the first day of sickness and the debate you had on the subject in the Commission. Our good colleague, Jürgen Ligi, has always said that the rapporteur for the Commission must convey the spirit that prevailed in the Commission and on the basis of which the decision was taken. My question is that, since not only Helmen Kütt, but even Priit Sibul, suggested that we bring the Socialist amendment from the second draft here too, [in doing so] would already have been a great peace. We would have had the final vote on this draft now or the procedure would have already been closed. But now you see what a disaster you've caused. What was the Commission's mind, then, that your Socialist proposal to compensate for sickness days from day one was not transferred from that other law? And what was your own argument that you didn't bring it here? You would have brought it here and voted 'no', so there's a problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U445	Thank you, Mr Kalvi Tough, for this question. I have already answered this question and I have pointed out what the Head of Secretariat of the Commission responded [to the proposal] to bring the Socialist Amendment to this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U446	Riina Sikkut, please! [[No connection.]] Riina, we're running out of time, but we can't see or hear you. Let's try to cut the connection once and then start over. Actually, let's just take Kert Kingo's question first and then try to get Riina Sikkut on the line. Kert Kingo, please! Since Riina Sikkut came back on the line, let's try Riina Sikkut's question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U447	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I shut down Chrome for a while. Looks like it did. Thank you. My previous question was due to the fact that when replying to Priit Onion, a good waitress, you yourself reflected your considerations as to why you support such a procedure: it is an important change and you want it to enter into force. The fact that this issue did not find a debate in the Commission is entirely natural. I wanted to know what are the important issues where the rules do not have to be followed. If you wish, you can answer it. But I also ask about the social partners. It is absolutely necessary to reach agreement with the social partners in order to make the reimbursement of sick days earlier, so that employers can also compensate for the second or third day of sickness. But our proposal concerns that in a crisis situation, the state would also take on sick days paid by employers for corona positive and close contacts. In this case, do you see that it is possible to proceed with this amendment without having to hold a six-month discussion with the social partners?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U448	Thank you, good Riina Sikkut! As far as the violation of the rules is concerned, there has been no violation of the law. In that sense, everything is correct. And once again, as regards my personal opinion on whether to proceed without the opinion of the social partners on your proposal, I repeat that I am not here now to convey my own opinion, but to pass on the debate that took place in the Commission. And this issue was not discussed in the Commission on this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U449	Kert Kingo has a procedure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U450	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Yeah, it's procedural. I checked in to ask a question earlier, but then I lost Internet access. Now I've got the connection restored and registered, but [the system] shows that I'm starting to ask another question. Actually, I haven't been able to ask any questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U451	We're counting on it, Kert. We're keeping track. Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U452	Thank you. Dear waitress, I suppose you must admit that this situation is somewhat perverse. We imagine that the members of the Reform Party would have voted in favour of progressive income tax in the City Council of Tallinn, and then would come up the hill to the Riigikogu and say no-no, we have always advocated only uniform income tax, we have never supported any progressive income tax. You said, yes, that nobody in the committee insisted on voting here in the Riigikogu on the same principle that we voted there in the council. But did anyone wonder why you didn't insist? If you voted this way in Tallinn City Council, why do you not want to do the same in this Riigikogu? Did the other members of the committee or the guests of the committee ask the Reform Party why you have two different positions, one at local level and the other at Riigikogu level?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U453	Thank you, good questioner! This question was not raised in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U454	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U455	[[Silence.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U456	We have no contact, Alar. Let's try to contact Alar Laneman again.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U457	[[Remote connection]] Dear waitress, Is there any way to open up these calculations on why we should abandon the rather practical proposal of the social democrats? What is the apparent savings in financial terms and, on the other hand, what damage is possible in the fight against corona? We know this mystical coefficient R. One day is enough to create one more. Did you do that kind of calculations? If you did, why don't you share it with us?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U458	Thank you, good questioner, for this question. At its meeting on 8 April, the Commission did not make or analyse such calculations.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U459	Merry Aart, please! [[No connection.]] We don't have contact with Merry. Let's try to abort and start over. We can't contact you right now, Merry. Let's take Siim Pohlak's question next and then try to get back in touch with Merry Aart. Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U460	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I hope you can hear me. Mr Kalvi Tõvi asked about the mood in the Commission. The mood was, in fact, full of protest, opposition members did not agree with what was happening, and the coalition simply made it completely numb. It was a road roller that drove completely numb. Luckily, it wasn't a gay road roll, it was just a coalition road roll. I'll ask the waitress how you feel. You said everything was legally correct. But is legally correct always enough in this Parliament, or should things really be morally correct? Parliament's reputation is not to be commended. How do you feel, is this legally correct always enough or could things be morally correct?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U461	Thank you, good Siim Pohlak! Yeah, of course, just because everything's good practice is always better. However, as has been said in the Commission and also repeatedly said here, the extension of the reimbursement of sick days is an urgent and necessary decision, which must be taken. Hence this unusual procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U462	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U463	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Last Wednesday at 6:30 a.m., during the sitting, our mailbox message from the chairman of the committee, Siret Kotka, highlighted the fact that here are the Commission's amendments, which we will be discussing on Thursday. They were quickly discussed on Thursday, but, frankly, it all got mixed up. My question is, why don't you explain nicely to me what logic part of the bill of paragraphs 347 was transferred to this bill. What was the logic, and with whom was it discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U464	Thank you, good questioner! We discussed this together in the Committee on Social Affairs, at least I was not involved in any earlier debate, if any. And the logic or reason I take from the explanatory memorandum to this draft prepared for second reading. It says that the Committee on Social Affairs decided to transfer several regulations relating to COVID-19 from the draft 347. Perhaps the reason for the choice was [the transfer of these changes], which is more urgent and linked to the current crisis situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U465	Let's try to get back in touch with Merry Aart. Merry Aart, please! [[No connection.]] No, I'm not. Let's try to interrupt and get back in touch, and even if it doesn't, we'll go to the next questioner. [[No connection.]] Unfortunately, I can't get in touch right now. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U466	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! As I understand it, you consider the element of self-responsibility to be crucial for sick days. Madam rapporteur, we do not have a weather debate here on social policy choices. It is important for us to make the necessary decisions quickly in order to reduce the infection so that we do not have a third wave. My question is this: would it be conceivable for us to put aside the weather disputes now and make a decision on the reimbursement of 100% sick days? Are you yourself open to such a decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U467	Thank you, good questioner! I agree with you on the fact that we do not hold a weather debate here and [we wish] that important and necessary changes can be made quickly. And that is what the Social Affairs Committee has proposed to the Riigikogu plenary, so let us make these decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U468	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U469	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! To my previous question, concerning § 59, the tasks assigned to the Health Board in preparing for an emergency, you replied that you did not consider in the Commission whether [the list] is exhaustive or not. But I have the question, where did these proposals come from, and why are you going to let these things over in committee so that you won't?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U470	Thank you, good questioner, for this question. This amendment, by which parts of the draft law 347 were converted into draft law 355, was proposed by the Chairman of the Commission [and he proposed] to formalise it as an amendment to the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U471	Kert Kingo, please! Let's try to reconnect.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U472	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In the committee session, you yourself called it a debate, we were all present beautifully. However, since the Commission has six members of the coalition parties and four members of the opposition, it is, of course, the result of all this that is currently the draft in this Chamber. I have a question for you, because you yourself were busy raising your hand there when you had to raise the question of how you yourself appreciate the way in which this bill is being dealt with. Do you consider such processing to be correct?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U473	Thank you. I have also said this in reply to previous questions, that I certainly prefer to have both the law, this has been done in this case, and good practice in the procedure. But if there are urgent issues that need to be resolved to help people in a crisis, I think we did the right thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U474	Merry Aart, please! We'll try to contact you again.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U475	[[Remote connection]] I can hear it now, I think.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U476	Yeah, I hear you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U477	[[Remote connection]] I would actually very much like to ask you that I am listening here to all the substantive questions [to which you are answering] that this was not discussed or almost was not discussed. Amendments 24 or 25. How is it possible that the amendments were not discussed in substance in the Commission? There's some consequence behind every proposal, some result. How is such a thing possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U478	Thank you, good questioner, for this question. What can I say? That was just the case with this bill. Perhaps I am speculating now, but the reason was also that these amendments were initially foreseen for the draft law 347. As they were relocated from there, this is why the Commission did not dwell on the content of these proposals at the time, but on the procedural procedure, which some of the members of the Commission did not think was right.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U479	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U480	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Perhaps I have missed my ears, but I have not received any information as to whether the Commission also presented some kind of calculation of the burden that the adoption of this draft could impose on the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U481	Thank you, good questioner! These estimates were not discussed in the Commission on 8 April.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U482	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U483	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good waitress! You admitted that Parliament's good practice was wrong in the Commission, but you added that in some cases this is necessary. My question is this: can you define which cases the violation of good practice is acceptable to you? Is it only when the matter is urgent or in any other case? And please do not answer that this has nothing to do with the work of the Commission, because you yourself made a decision in the Commission to violate this good practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U484	Thank you, good questioner! Yes, on 8 March I supported the proposal concerning the introduction of a decision to extend the reimbursement of sick days in this draft. But really, the Commission did not discuss my personal opinions on when and how to act.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U485	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U486	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honourable performer! I have a question that, when we took part in the pieces of draft 347 and were moved to draft 355, it was also discussed when the 347 debate in the Commission would continue. And was it also discussed to replace 355 at all with a new number and to initiate a new draft by the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U487	Thank you, good questioner! I am looking at this Commission protocol here. Yes, the question of the 347 procedure of the draft law was raised. However, the chairman of the committee replied that the procedure for this draft and the presentation of amendments to the members of the committee would continue. And as for the other side of [your question], changing the name of the law now really does not quickly see the question [in the protocol], but according to my memory it was not on the agenda in this form.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U488	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U489	Thank you. It has turned out here that much controversy was caused by this whole procedural side. The chairman of the committee argued that this proposal, which was made by the representative of the Fatherland, cannot be made, but the Commission did its own thing with exactly the same procedural delay. Did this so-called double standard find any explanation or dissent? Why can this be done with the proposal of the coalition members, but cannot be done with the proposal of the opposition members?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U490	Thank you, Mr Helme. I would point out that this amendment, which we have discussed at length in this regard, was an amendment by the Commission, which the law on the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu provides an opportunity to present. However, the deadline for amendments by political groups, delegates and other committees is governed by § 99 of the same law, according to which the deadline is set by the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U491	A procedure, Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U492	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! I never like asking procedural questions or breaking up decimal places, but this time I am forced to do so because of a very substantive question. Mrs Luck, you rightly pointed out that in April last year exactly the same thing was done, with two readings going through the same week for several drafts. But I would remind you that it was under the circumstances of emergency. We have three such serious special legal arrangements in the country, a special situation, a state of emergency and a state of war, if such conduct is fully justified. But otherwise, it couldn't and shouldn't be considered right.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U493	Thank you, good questioner! It was a procedural question, I understand. We have certainly come out of the emergency that the second and third readings have been in one week, even during the various formations. But, of course, the Bureau is striving not to have two readings in one week unless there is a special situation like this. Let's go on with the procedure. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U494	Thank you, Mr President. I am very pleased to see such a very strong and heated debate on this draft today. But unfortunately, I see that only the members of the Fatherland, the Social Democrats and the EKRE will take part in this debate. No members of the Centre Party or Reform Party have asked questions here, and it seems to me that they have left the sitting. In connection with the above, I ask you to carry out a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U495	Thank you. I am sure that there will be representatives from all the political groups, and when I look around the Chamber, I will see at least four members of the political groups here too. Thank you, good waitress. No further questions, I'm opening negotiations. I will give the floor to Priit Sibula for negotiation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U496	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Such a draft procedure, as we have just completed in this large Chamber, took place in the same way in the Commission. No group had any problems with the draft amendment to the Health Services Organisation Act. In the part that was brought here from the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases into the draft amendment to the Health Services Organisation Act, i.e. the extension of sick days from the end of April to the end of December, this idea has not been questioned by any political group or politician, as far as I know. However, this debate took place in a rather absurd and tense atmosphere. Late Wednesday at 5:30 p.m., we received a proposal from the Commission leader to make such a move, and already on Thursday in the Commission, we discussed this proposal. As has been the case many times today, the problem was that the deadline for amendments to this draft was on Tuesday. So, as I said before, the coalition ran over the road roll in the sense that using a situation where there were no amendments to the draft law on the organisation of health services, it was, of course, possible to move forward with urgency, as has been said. I am sad as a member of the Committee on Social Affairs simply because we never had an understanding at the committee's meeting of how we are dealing with this law on the prevention and control of communicable diseases. There were lengthy discussions on the group's amendments, including the proposal of the Fatherland, which was heard and which we are still voting on. Let us say that this part of our proposal was not so tragic, as has been said here on several occasions by the Socialists, which is precisely the same section that we are now moving from one body to another. And that is the problem, in fact, in these cases, in the case of proceedings, it makes sense to interrupt the second reading. Surely we will also support this cessation of second reading in this case, because it is the only right and sensible way to deal with draft laws in a reasonable manner. Now, in the case of the NETS, the coalition found that this was a crucial issue, and it really is that people should not suffer during the Corona, and if they go on the sick list or the quarantine sheet, they will also be guaranteed these benefits. But in my opinion, the problem, or perhaps even part of it, is what's more important than the rest of the Nets. For days, demonstrations are taking place behind the windows of the Riigikogu, where there is talk of becoming a police state, and that is precisely the same thing that concerns the Nets. But there's no way of knowing about it. The coalition doesn't give a damn what's happening on the street. However, police officers are brought to the table and nothing is really said to those concerned people who, for some reason, are afraid of being outlawed, but when I look at the way the coalition views people and these issues, the concerns of these people are perfectly understandable and understandable. I think it is important to urgently find a solution so that people do not have to be on the streets during a health crisis and contribute to the spread of the virus, but can be at home peacefully. But as I said, it seems that the coalition has other and more important problems. Tomorrow, on the proposal of the Fatherland, there will be a debate on the amendment of the Health Insurance Act. There, the government explained why it does not support the proposal of the Fatherland that the Fatherland is looking too narrowly at the problem that we want to change tomorrow so that those people who are not ready to give a test at the border will not receive compensation for the quarantine or sickness sheet later. That we're looking at it too narrowly, that the government is looking at it more widely and that it's watching it on the Nets. But when it's accepted, or when it's passed, we don't understand it. This procedural problem and the violation of the procedures that took place here today, we realise that one problem leads to another, and I do not see a sensible solution. It is therefore reasonable to interrupt the second reading of this draft. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U497	Thank you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, I beg you for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U498	Thank you, good Chairman! Good for all the protectors, guardians of the Republic or, as in Estonian, this beautiful word is the guardians! Today, in this remote area, despite the fact that we have been concerned for several hours about the situation in which amendments have somehow disappeared from one law, I would still be afraid to read today, April 12, 2021, the day of the victory of democracy. Why I'm so bold about this is that the Nets Bill, 347 SE, is clearly not going to make it to this hall. It's my gut. But that is why things that seem reasonable are scraped out of this bill and grafted onto other drafts. And it is disproportionately irrational and incomprehensible that we should extend the powers of the police under the conditions of peace, because we know that once we have given any powers, we will not be able to get those powers back. At this point, I would like to congratulate all those people who wrote us these letters of concern. Clearly, this information also reached the coalition ambassadors. Swallow that tear of worry, that you were called lame countrymen or whatever. The message actually arrived. That is precisely the message that arrived, which means that the 347 SE will remain there quietly and quietly. I will take this opportunity to say that I am a child in politics, and I will say that no mistakes will be recognised if such mistakes are not recognised. It's just not the right time to process this bill anymore. Good people, you've made your appearance with these protests. Now you can move on to your normal life, and if anything is heard that something is starting to move quietly again in the Committee on Social Affairs, believe me, the opposition is watching this very seriously. At this point, I would like to say that, people, enjoy spring at home, do not make those big group hugs that are not foreseen at this moment. And Estonia's democracy won. Long live Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U499	Thank you. I now request the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, Helmen Hunter. Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U500	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable fellows! Last week, late Wednesday at 11:22 p.m., all members of the Social Affairs Committee received a letter with an attachment entitled 'Eagle proposals'. At the meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs on Thursday, it became clear that although the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on the organisation of health services was completed on 5 April and the deadline for amendments was on 6 April, it was stated that the deadline for amendments was not one of the amendments received from the members of the Riigikogu, committees or political groups, Siret Kotka tabled amendments on his behalf on 7 April late evening, as stated above, in order to formalise them as proposals by the Commission. As the letter said, amendments are largely included in the draft law 347 which is already pending in the Riigikogu, i.e. the draft law on the prevention and control of communicable diseases, and is planned to enter into force on 1 May 2021. Since the draft 355 is supplemented by the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act, the Medicines Act, the Social Tax Act, the Cause of Death Act, the Health and Safety at Work Act and other laws, it was also necessary to amend the title, i.e. simply the so-called cluster law. We do not have anyone in the Committee on Social Affairs who thinks that the payment of sickness benefits should not be extended, because under the law in force today, the procedure for the payment of sickness benefits from the second day to 70% will end on 30 April. On the contrary, the Social Democrats proposed, the amendment that people suffering from the Crown virus and those in close contact should receive sickness benefits for the first day and even 100% in order to control the spread of this evil virus. However, it would not be the employer who would be the payer, but the money would be paid through the health insurance fund from the state budget, because then companies would also have been treated equally by both large companies and small businesses. Still, for everyone to benefit, there would be help for businesses and people would not lose their income if they remained at home conscientiously in order to treat themselves or not to endanger others and spread the virus in close contact. And here's the argument that tripartite agreements are different, in that sense, it is not the case that, if the burden on employers is reduced for all, especially for sick and close contacts, there is no employer against it. Worse. In the example of last week's Thursday, after the deadline for amendments, all members of the coalition can now submit proposals for the draft. Because, as stated in the Commission, only those amendments that are supported by the Commission can be brought to the Chamber. These amendments will enter the large Chamber. However, the members of the opposition cannot do this because their amendments are unlikely to be supported by the Commission and cannot even be seen in the large hall, let alone in the vote. I would point out that these amendments were not submitted to the Social Affairs Committee by the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Health Insurance Fund or any other institution, which the chairman of the committee brings to the debate and vote of the committee, but by a member of the Riigikogu, who is a member of the coalition and leads the Social Affairs Committee. However, as an opposition ambassador and vice-chairman of the Commission, I cannot do this because they would not find support in the Commission anyway. Is the situation where the rules laid down in the Riigikogu's Law on Home and Working Procedures have been violated in such a way as to significantly distort the parliamentary decision-making process and in the event of violation of the Riigikogu's Law on Home and Working Procedures, one part of the members of the Riigikogu is essentially deprived of the opportunity to participate in the drafting of the Act, can be called constitutionally compatible at all? Today, all opposition parties and members of the Riigikogu of the opposition have been deprived of this opportunity, and this is certainly not the meaning of the Constitution or the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act. Why did no member of the coalition's Riigikogu or political group submit amendments in time, i.e. by 5 p.m. on 6 April? As early as December 2020 and January 2021, the Social Democrats pointed out that on 30 April the period of sickness benefit will end as from the second day of illness. The Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee has stressed that he does not lead the committee on the road roll method. That's the right principle. We'll support you with two hands. Good fellows! So what kind of leadership would you call it? The Social Democrats do not ask or hope that their amendments will always be supported, but the fact that the right to table amendments, to hold debates in committees and in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu has been removed is in no way in line with good legislative practice. In view of the above, the Social Democratic Party Group proposes to interrupt the second reading of the Act on the Organisation of Health Services, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and in connection with the amendment of other laws, the second reading of the Act 355. The proposal has been forwarded to the sitting department electronically. And I would like to ask all those to whom the good practice and democratic free debate on draft legislation and the possibility of presenting different opinions are important, to support our proposal to interrupt. Believe me, seats may change, there is opposition, order in the coalition, but good practices and a balanced procedure should be possible regardless of the seat. After all, it is important to have positions and the opportunity to present and defend them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U501	Thank you. I assure you that this proposal has indeed come, the Vice-Chairman of the Group, who has digitally signed the Kalvi Tõud. Now the word is Siim Pohlak. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U502	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The measures in this draft are necessary in itself and are not contested by the EKRE Group. But there is also another side to the coin, the question of the dignity of Parliament: whether we are dealing with legislation by bustling, whistling to good practices, or whether we are finding a positive solution. I am not thinking of a solution at the expense of Parliament's honour and dignity, but a solution should have come within the framework of the 347 bill, which was the donor of this draft, which has now been blocked for certain reasons, and I hope that it will remain in this position. I would like to emphasise once again: the EKRE Group does not dispute the content of draft 355, but we are very strongly opposed to the way in which the draft has been dealt with. Individual actions will become habits in their repetition and we do not want such a road roll policy to become a habit in the Estonian Parliament and its committees. Therefore, on behalf of the EKRE Group, I propose that we stop reading, start again and do the work correctly. The suspension proposal has also been forwarded to the chairman of the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U503	Thank you. I also confirm that this proposal has come, signed by Helle-Moonika Helme, vice-president of the Group. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Kalle Grünthal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U504	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, succeeded in attending this, I would say the infamous Social Affairs Committee, not as a member of the Commission, but as a guardian of the Nets drafts. There was a story at the time that I was sorry in my heart to look at Helmen Hunt's unnecessary struggle, how he tried to maintain the dignity of Parliament and tried to make it clear to Commission leader Siret Kotka that we also have some rules in this life that we are dealing with. Unfortunately, all of this remained ineffective. It was a very sad sight, I could not intervene in this process because I was not a Member of the Commission. By the way, this very committee also tried to cross me, the draft waitress, completely capitulated. I was introducing an amendment that might also help us overcome the crisis that caused this patience in the Republic of Estonia, so I introduced the nature of the PCR tests, their positive aspects and their negative aspects. And all the time, they tried to stop me from getting together briefly and send me these things to the Commission in writing. That's not how it works! It still ended up being able to talk two points away, but I still had, let's say, 19 points to talk. So in this sense, what is happening in the Committee on Social Affairs is a nightmare for me. Why do I dare say it like that? Because I have also been in contact with legal proceedings for about 25 years, where all procedural standards have been strictly regulated. And according to my practice, I can say that what if you're a thousand times right, but if you're wrong about the process standards, that's why you have no hope of a result. The right is a vessel which must be filled with fair content. It is all in agreement, but we will not be able to get past the standards of the process either. In my opinion, the Supreme Court has also repeatedly pointed out that any procedure must not appear to take into account the process nor the rights of people. The process must not seem fair, but also fair. And, of course, what is still a very big problem in this matter is that, in fact, the so-called capital and fundamental principles of the administrative procedure have also been forgotten. Perhaps it must be recalled that, if civil law is the criterion that what is not prohibited is allowed, and in criminal proceedings it is the criterion and the principle that what is prohibited is prohibited, then administrative law is the principle that we must observe: what is allowed is what is allowed. Maybe then we can carry out those procedures in the administrative procedure that we have written down and that we have codified. In administrative proceedings, it is not possible to make their own creations, fill these holes with their own creations, go to... Can I have another three minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U505	Please, three minutes is yours!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U506	In fact, we saw this situation today in this Chamber, too, where there are conflicting moments, for example, about this free microphone, where one rule says that we have to deal with it in this Chamber and allow the ambassadors to speak in a free microphone. It's a mandatory rule, it's obligatory, conditional. But the second rule says again that the hearing lasts about 12 or 24, and that's it. Now, here's a, let's say, in a sense, a judgment of discretion, that this is a very serious pass. But the idea of this very free microphone of the Riigikogu is, in fact, that the ambassadors can speak, give information about their activities, bring out ideas. And if we now, say, there is no consensus or a normal solution between these two conflicting norms, then it actually means closing the mouth of Members. And by drawing an analogy, exactly the same processes have taken place in the Committee on Social Affairs. It was sad to see that. Mr Hillak, I think you're a lawyer too, right, at least that's how it sounded in the hall, but Kert Kingo, who is also in the Committee on Social Affairs, knows very well what the standards of process are. It's such a screaming injustice. Let's say by quoting the Estonian film classic "Men are not crying" that Ervin Abel would say that this is the screaming physical violence that was committed here today. Such things, I think, should not be allowed in this House. How does it open? [[Trying to open a bottle of water.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U507	We'll have to turn. But I'm pointing out it's bubbleless water.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U508	Yeah, I like it! Okay. I'm ready to go on now. I think that this is the form of the draft that should in any case be rejected. The contents are good, but the looks are very bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U509	Thank you very much. A procedural question. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U510	Thank you. I really do have a procedural question. As we know, the Rules of Procedure will allow the political groups, in negotiations, to authorise a representative if no one from the political group wants to speak on behalf of their group, either from another political group or from an ambassador from a political group. Is it now possible, in the round of negotiations between the members of the Riigikogu, for one member of the Riigikogu to authorise another member of the Riigikogu to negotiate for himself? And if not, under which section of the Law on Home and Rules of Procedure is it prohibited? Can you tell me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U511	Thank you. I'm starting with what we have on second reading. This takes place on the basis of § 105 of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, where there are really negotiations, as § 69 (5) provides for. Members of the Riigikogu, representatives of committees and political groups may speak. We are also always kind to listen to the interest of a member of the Government of the Republic and the Chancellor of Justice, who has the right to speak. The President shall authorise the statement, § 71. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U512	Thank you. That's what I realized. I asked whether it was possible, as in the negotiations between the political groups, to authorise someone from another group to negotiate, rather than from my group. Is it possible to empower members of the Riigikogu in this way? I would have authorized Mr Grünthal for myself, I felt he couldn't say everything he had to say.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U513	Thank you. That's a very interesting question. We do not have such a precedent, in my opinion, the law on home and working arrangements does not allow it, but if we bring the parallel here, really, as you have brought it, when there is an unattached ambassador, these possibilities have sometimes been used at first and third readings. So that's the question of a change of law. Unfortunately, there is no chance at the moment, and there is no way we can meet you. But we have good news, and now we have Mart Helmen. I would like you to join the Riigikogu's Chair of Speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U514	I thank you, Mr Chairman, for calling my performance a good news, and I think that is good news for the entire people of Estonia, not just for those represented in this Chamber! And I'd start my conversation with the fact that a long day has been spent here, and not just as a result of today, but as a result of the last two and a half months of experience, dreams, waking up, I've had this feeling that I'm living in some dystopia. I'm living in some dystopia, it can't be true, it can't be what it is. What has happened here today in the debate on this point is not what is supposed to happen here in Parliament. This is not because this should not have happened in the Commission. And since he got out of hand in the Commission, he's lost it in this hall too, and that's why you feel like you're living in some fancy world where reality just doesn't exist, but it doesn't exist. But then I'd come to the ground and not to say that the old man started beating some crazy shit, then I'd rely on other authorities. And the first authority I want to quote is Ivan Makarov loved, but certainly also a journalist hated by many, a columnist. And he's writing here about what's been happening in our country, but he's starting the vaccination. I will start by quoting: "Yes, Kadri Simson belongs to a high-risk group called the Central Party, the genetic code of this party has been written into the extremely high risk of corruption. And to describe the current course of action of the Estonian leadership in the distribution of the vaccine, it is only left to return to the scenes described by Jaroslav Hashek. " The Hashek quote follows. " "There was a common military nepotism in the kitchen, based on which everyone was distributed to those who were closer to the click in power. Tents roamed the Łubków Pass with greasy faces. Every messenger had a belly like a rock. The writers' goblets shone as well, the orderlys blew up the satisfaction... "So when our white ship (He means the Estonian state. M.H.) should start drowning, such captains will leave first: the commissars of our government and ministries, the mauser in hand, and the Estonian women, the old, the babes and the children will go away with the bangs. This total impunity of corruptionists is gradually changing to fear - control, for the thought still frightens people that they are ruled by lawbreakers, who no one can control. People no longer trust the judicial system, which always gives the right to an unfair power, to the ethics of the Riigikogu and to the 'court of honor' of the parties. The law of hate speech has been laid down for a while, but some of the things that were awful to pull the paper out of it again and to slap it on honest people. Because the creation of new selfish laws is programmed into the activities of the Corruption Party Alliance, of which Publius (Gaius) Cornelius Tacitus wrote: "The more corruption there is in the country, the more laws there are in the country." " And now we're here. Now we're here. The more corruption there is, the more laws there are. The more unnecessary laws are, the more there are laws that chew on small things. The more people have dictated laws. There are more laws that force people into forced throws. We see now, there have been protests in the country for two weeks. Turns out the police have the right to confiscate... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U515	How much do you want?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U516	Three minutes, but maybe 30.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U517	Please, three minutes! Thirty can't, three can.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U518	The police have no right to confiscate milkmannerg from a bearded old man, on which he beats the drum, claiming that he has not registered as a street musician. Law! The law gave them that opportunity. What kind of law? Imagine that one mother sits, takes the cello, her children are there by her side, and she starts playing the Estonian anthem, and the people who stand two metres away beautifully from her start singing the Estonian anthem. And the police want to take the cello away from this woman, they want to declare her a criminal, claims she's a threat to the surroundings, which is because this person has suffered from COVID, his whole family has suffered from COVID. He's not a threat to anyone, to himself or to others. But they say he's dangerous. He has to be confiscated, which is his livelihood, by the way. Milkmannerg, by the way, was confiscated for 30 days, if I have correctly understood what a very dangerous, socially dangerous instrument. That's the story. Why am I saying all this? Looks like I'm spreading out. No, I'm not gonna spread out. I'm saying this for a very simple reason. If we have here this sacred institution, which is the legislator of the Estonian state, which should also be the cream of the Estonian people in terms of representatives, lets things turn into a joki, lets the legislation be dealt with here, lets the legislative breach, which is also being abused, then things are very bad. And today's debate very clearly demonstrated that there has been a surplus, that the jockey is being implemented, that it is not really good legislative practice, in which two votes are being rushed within one week, which is bad practice. It's acceptable if there really is a house on fire somewhere and people die. Well, it's not that bad. It's not that bad. We don't have people dying mass on the street. Over the last year, ten times more people died from cardiovascular disease than they did to COVID. Let's not do this kind of legislation, let's not go down to a low level! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U519	Thank you. And now I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Helle-Moonika Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U520	Good President! Good waitress! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear members of the Social Affairs Committee! And all the good people, all the viewers and listeners who are still watching us at this late hour! We have been trying for a long time here in the Chamber of Riigikogu to explain to ourselves and the viewers-lists both with our questions and by trying to get answers from the waitress to them that would explain to us and to everyone in this society how this could happen, as happened in the 355 Social Committee draft. I am saying that this practice of dealing with draft laws is no longer the direction in which we, as a legislator, as we are in the Riigikogu, have come out and where we appear to be on our way. There have been numerous visits here, and I also assure myself that in the current situation, solutions are certainly needed and they urgently need to be found. But I, too, do not support such a procedure for dealing with drafts, and I really do not think that this should become our customary practice of working. Unfortunately, however, it seems that this type of rape is slowly becoming the norm after the new government comes to power. Also in another committee, which we dealt with today's draft law on the amendment of the basic school and upper secondary school law (349 SE) there, too, there was this process of processing at the border, where the draft of the ministry became a draft of the Commission for us in the Commission. It was voted through without shame by the coalition's voices. Again, I do not, in itself, dispute the good aim of helping the victims of the crisis, that is our duty. But I would remind you that last spring we were also in a health crisis. Then the previous government never took such an opportunity. Obviously, the previous government was much more capable of resolving the crisis and such rape in law making something out of the Commission simply by rushing through it, that is what the previous government never needed. But that is now being done, ladies and gentlemen, good listeners-viewers, see, that is very eloquent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U521	I now ask the Riigikogu for a speech chair in Lauri Läänemets.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U522	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U523	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U524	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to talk a little bit about what's going on in the streets right now, and I'd like to bring in the connections that are going on in this house and the government, and how these things are connected, and what we could actually pay attention to. But for starters, just to be clear, I have not changed my views on this point that I believe in doctors and scientists that there is a virus, that there is a problem, that people are infected, that people are dying. I do not dispute these questions, nor have I contested them, nor do I intend to challenge them. But I would like to talk about the reasons why there are people on the streets or why there are so many people in Estonia who think about those who are on the streets. I'm not talking about those people who are really denying the questions about this virus or those who are selling things to others there, such as miracle drugs. I don't support them either. But the real question is that a lot of people are in trouble. We have imposed restrictions. And I am now talking not only about the restrictions imposed by the current government, but also about the restrictions imposed by the previous government. The concern is that if you impose restrictions but do not create opportunities for people to comply with these restrictions, people will get into trouble. All right, a month, two months, three months you can do it. What about six months and a year? Look, if you don't have any income, it's gonna be really complicated. And do what you want, if the government, if the state leaves people alone, then eventually the result will be frustration, there will be disappointment, and eventually there will be no listening to what citizens are being asked to do to overcome this crisis. I went to Toompea on Thursday in front of the house to talk to a lot of people. It's estimated there were nearly a hundred of them, and we talked for about an hour. We set out to disagree on the existence of the virus, we didn't go on very long, but we talked about where we had mutual understanding. And the people I was talking to weren't all the infamous leaders who wanted to be prime minister here, I wasn't talking to them in any case, their concern why they were here in front of the house was people's mental health. Quite a few people said that their concern about why they're in front of this house is that psychiatric hospitals can't deal with this issue anymore, their acquaintances have problems, but you see, the state doesn't provide support. A simple request: please support this question. Then there were quite a few seemingly very reasonable entrepreneurs, whose main reason they were here on Toompea was that they could not do their own business. Restrictions are in place, no work can be done, but the measures that the country has created, both the previous and the current government, will not help them. They just don't qualify. They simply do not qualify, the measures are either so inflexible or, for example, a wage subsidy measure, which prefers larger and stronger companies. It was like that last spring, and it's like that now. But it is these smaller companies that the state continues to overlook. Of course they come out here, no one's helping them, and no one's thinking about it. I'd rather say it's not about this police state. This is actually the place where I would like to say that I think every parliamentary party should have a certain responsibility. And so should the responsibility of the EKRE, who has focused the concern and helplessness of people on this issue of the police state and, now, here, well you can safely assume, is raising some sort of political capital. But it's actually very wrong. Because, firstly, these drafts do not have what they claim to be. The police already have all these rights today. But the other way around, he's extremely wrong because people have a problem. People are struggling to cope, they are given hope, they are somehow channeled to the wrong place, people come, they live along. And what's the result? The result is that they don't get anything. So I don't know which is worse, either what the EKRE is doing today, that cheated people are double-crossing, or that the government doesn't care how Estonia's life goes in different parts of Estonia. In any case, we in this Chamber would be able to do a great deal to make sure that these people are better, that there is no reason to come to the streets. Or those who haven't come to the streets because they don't want to get involved with the really absurd things we've seen in the media, but they're still worried and they're thinking along. There's a lot we can do in this hall. One thing that has unfortunately been very much on the subject today is the reimbursement of sick days. The Socialist proposal is 100% from the first day, so that these same people do not get into trouble if they have to stay home for someone else's health. It's a very simple thing to do. Friends, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition! Actually, I understand you also have a problem with why these people are upset. Try to understand them a little bit. Try looking with those eyes that are happening. If your salary isn't very high, but you're gonna have to give up half your salary because of the isolation, like some people, unfortunately, after the corona, it's really hard to be home and feed your family on that side of the salary. What we can do today and the message that we can give to people is: dear people, follow the restrictions that have been set, and we will do everything we can to enable you to comply with these restrictions. Including the fact that we find a way to deal with, handle and support this proposal for reimbursement of social democrat sick days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U525	Thank you. I now ask for the Riigikogu's speech chair, Mikhail Lotman.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U526	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I want to start with a quote from the classic too. And this classic is Kaja Kallas. But not that Kaja Kallas, who is now Prime Minister, but that Kaja Kallas, who was the leader of the largest opposition party until recently, and who, on several occasions from this platform, admonished the previous coalition that it threatens the rule of law and wants to organise the rule of law. The rule of law of this strange opposition versus the rule of power took him from Count Coudenhove-Kalerg. In itself, it is quite suspicious in a socio-philosophic sense, nor was it Kalergi much of a thinker, but the important thing is that Kaja Kallas himself believed in it. And now that he has the power, he's starting to apply his paradigm. I'm not a big fan of the last coalition. We did a number of bad things and perhaps did not take the opposition into account as much as it should have been. [[Laughing.]] Okay. On the left-hand side, there's a squirrel of discharge. But the kind of thing I see today in this Riigikogu for the first time. Well, so rough to cross the opposition, and so, I don't know, raw to do that, it's a pretty big step towards this power state. I would also like to say a few words about the good people who demonstrated us here before the Riigikogu. I don't share their views, but they were nice people with real problems. And like my colleague Lauri, I spoke to them and several times. It wasn't what the press offered us, that there were some right-wing populists and Russian agents, and everyone was even Greek. There were some Greeks, there were some representatives of Nochnoi Dozor, but there were also quite a few young anarchist-minded Estonians, there were also, say, strong nationalists, there were also Putin supporters. I did some mapping, there were at least five different viewers. But what was pleasant, [it was] their, how to say now, friendly association. And also, I have a specific interest in them, and I'm sorry this performance ended here. I am professionally involved in conspiracy theories, and here in front of the Riigikogu, I felt like a lab student from a poor university, getting into the lab of the top university. There were five very interesting conspiracy theories. And what was once again very interesting is that there was no national issue here. Both Russians and Estonians said more or less the same thing. As one of my younger colleagues, a former student, said, conspiracy theory in Estonia is a very good engine for integration. It was said in half with a joke like that. But the use of force was clearly disproportionate. And I hope we are not moving towards this national order, which is the opposite of the rule of law. I don't want to dramatize the situation, but the first step is always quite difficult, but it's going to go on like a weasel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U527	Thank you. I will now give the floor to Siret Eagle in the negotiations. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U528	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Believe the coalition doesn't matter what's going on on the street. On the contrary, it is very important to us what the people think and what the people think. Here today, very much has been said about the Nets and given the impression that the Nets would not have been discussed or discussed at all in the Committee on Social Affairs. On the contrary! Last week, we discussed the Nets on three occasions in the Committee on Social Affairs, on Monday, Tuesday and Thursday, and we have already examined the amendments. Since there are really many amendments, 169 and since we see that EKRE and EKRE Member Kalle Grünthal have very clearly chosen the stretch tactics in both the Social Affairs Committee and in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, we see what the Erekre people are doing here on a daily basis, this procedure is not so fast. But the regulation on compensation for sick days can no longer wait; there must be action. I understand that Kalle Grünthal may find it fun and joy to introduce a PCR method for 45 minutes and read it off [paper] to describe what one method might be, but in fact, he's just laughing at both ambassadors and people a little taunted when he does it all. Kalle Grünthal personally has been in the Committee on Social Affairs to present his proposals in at least two sessions and, believe it, he introduced the PCR method for 45 minutes and never reached the end. He's just consciously decided that he's stalling, just like the Greeks are doing in this room. With regard to this draft today, the regulation on temporary reimbursement of sick days, which is very important for us to adopt it. [[The connection's breaking up.]] Indeed, we cannot give in to political pressure here and think that we will somehow be able to do otherwise. The fact that a total of 169 amendments to the Nets were tabled and the lion's share of them is from the EKRE ambassadors shows very clearly that it was also stipulated that reimbursement of sick days was not important for the EKRE. As far as the Commission's decisions are concerned, it is quite common in the Commission that the lead committee may make proposals after the deadline and the Commission will take decisions by a majority of votes in favour. Now that you are asking why the Commission decided to close the second reading and not to interrupt, these arguments are as follows. Firstly, the time for discussion and decision-making is limited, the deadline for extending the regulation of the sick list is 1 May inclusive. These are numbered days, good people! We no longer have a month where we can play, as you very much like to do in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. Secondly, the added text relates to the subject matter of the regulation of the existing draft, which is all the changes that will solve the crisis-related issues of COVID-19. Thirdly, there is a significant impact on society. Temporary regulation on compensation for sick days serves the purpose of keeping people at home and reducing the incidence of infection. So these are very important points. And the good ambassadors of the Fatherland and the EKRE who have said here that before, the committees have not been dealt with in this way, nor have they been dealt with in this way in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu as today! Who are you looking at? Let's look back exactly a year and a little bit. So 257 SEs weren't accepted in any other way. It was, yes, in April, then we might think that there was a crisis then, but also in June, good people, in June 2020, a bill was passed by the chairman of the Monetary Commission and this bill, 194 SE was then brought to the grand hall of the Riigikogu. It was exactly the same. So, yes, it is an exception, it cannot be normal, but to say that today it has been done on a very large road roll method, you also know that this is not the case. Let's keep looking in the same direction, there's no point in being duplicitous! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U529	Thank you. I now think that this is a reception, but since this is the case, it is a procedural question. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U530	Thank you. Yeah, I'd like to have an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U531	Please! You have your word.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U532	Thank you. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Right now Siret Eagle here used my name three times. Now I don't know if I'm gonna get three of those two minutes or not. But the President of the Riigikogu nods his head, so it is possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U533	What's possible? [[In the Laughing Hall.]] You have the right to speak in response, two minutes. I used up 15 seconds now, so that's what I'm going to add to your time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U534	Thank you. The question is that the honourable Siret Kotka found that I was dragging some sort of sittings and a committee sitting. That's pretty ridiculous. The question is now very pragmatic. Why did I talk about this PCR test for so long? I think I've told you that before. The PCR test, let's say, the number of reproduction cycles we use here to determine human infection has been pushed too high. These are the WHO's rules, which the Health Board and SYNLAB are following as closely as possible. And it is absolutely overlooked that the WHO has already issued a letter of formal notice in December and January that the sensitivity of the test, the number of reproduction cycles, should be lower in order to increase viral loads. The question now is that it is extremely important for this draft to be presented so that restrictions can be removed. The result is, in fact, that the Austrian Administrative Court in Vienna found that this is the wrong method, that the PCR test is not intended to detect diseases without any signs of disease, and that is also contrary to Austrian law. If you are now saying that Austrian laws are different, then the laws of nature still apply in the same way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U535	Dear Kalle Grünthal, your time! Evgeni Ossinovski, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U536	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that a coalition ambassador has finally spoken before me, because, frankly, at second reading on this important issue of infection control, which concerns the sick days as the subject of this focus, is indeed a political debate and agreement. But what do we see? We see that we have had one major procedural dispute and debate following the decision of the coalition, and we have not yet been able to deal with the substance of the matter in substance. But I am pleased that Mrs Eagle also presented the vision of the coalition on this subject and that it is possible to debate it. Indeed, it is urgent in sick days, Mrs Eagle, because in a few weeks' time, the current legal order will expire. But the question is why, in mid-April, Parliament will be in a situation where, in two weeks' time, the current regime will expire and the new one will not continue to be regularised. This time, tens of thousands of workers, thousands of entrepreneurs, who should all know a little more about how the disease control situation is organised. The Social Democrats have talked about the need to resolve the issue of sick days in the context of the Corona virus since August last year, and the year will soon be over. We made proposals in November, when it was said that we were taking it temporarily here, that we agreed with employers for four or five months. In fact, it was clear that by the end of April the pandemic would not be over. Did anyone really think in December that this would somehow mysteriously end, hopping, disappear? Why are we put in this situation? Point one. Point two. It is not our proposal to leave people without sick days. Our proposal has been to resolve this in such a way that the vision of all the political forces represented in Parliament about how the reimbursement of sick days to patients in the Corona and their close contacts should take place is properly debated and voted through, so that everyone knows who has supported what. This is a general principle of parliamentary democracy. Of course, we don't have to get to one point of view, we often don't. I guess politicians on the one hand and on the other will explain to their voters why they voted in favour or against. And then they'll either be re-elected or re-elected. Now we are placed in a situation where there seems to be nothing to be done, so we all have to vote in favour today, because otherwise people will be deprived. This argument is not valid. Today it is possible to interrupt the second reading of this bill. We know that the Chairwoman of the Social Affairs Committee is very busy, that it will soon be 11:22 a.m., and he can immediately send a proposal to the Social Affairs Committee to meet in an extraordinary meeting tomorrow morning at 8 a.m. or even 7.15 a.m. Because we know that the chairman of the committee has a very broad discretion on how to organise meetings. And, of course, [can] then, with the deadline for amendments in exactly the same way, agree that both the second and third readings will be on the agenda of next week and that the [Law] will be adopted nicely over the next week. And if there is a need for more debate, Parliament will meet exceptionally and decide on this issue in a week off. It is not the wish of the Socialists or, I believe, of any other political group that there will be a week off, and that is why these decisions must be taken quickly in violation of all the rules of procedure here. No, you're not! It has been a political choice. There is no justification other than that the coalition thought it would be convenient to do so. I'd like three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U537	Are you taking it or not? Because you used the form to "take," conditionally. Would you like three minutes or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U538	I'll take three more minutes...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U539	Got it. Please, three more!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U540	...if you give.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U541	Yeah, of course. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U542	As a result, the reason for speaking is that according to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President has the right to allow this extra time. If, for any reason, it should appear that the Chairman does not specifically wish to grant me this, this is also the right of the President, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act. That's my humble, conditional way of speaking.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U543	Yeah, I got it. Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U544	Thank you. This question has now been addressed. No hurry. It's not that there's no other way. Yes, he can. Mrs. Eagle, somehow very passionately here, upset the EKRE ambassadors that they were hypocritical and that they had done shit in their past life. All right, I'm not getting involved in this discussion. I tend to agree with Mrs. Eagle here. But my problem, frankly, doesn't concern it at all. My problem is that I am, and I know that very many of my social democratic colleagues, such as Helmen Kütt here, have been very passionate about their right to express a vote on the first day of illness for 100% compensation for patients with Corona. We really consider this to be a very important, extraordinarily important step to ensure that together, we fairly manage this epidemic downwards. What's happening now? If it were [the draft] 347 no, there were other debates on law enforcement and others, it was in the interest of other political forces and politicians, we could have discussed less: you see, we have two competing proposals, there is a government proposal, the second day and 70%, and there is a proposal from the Social Democrats, the first day and 100%. We would have spoken in favour of it, others would have said why they did not support it and could have voted. Today, the Commission rapporteur says that this has not been discussed. Oh, well, we haven't really discussed this first day of reparation, but that's not part of the bill. There is no such amendment. What are you guys talking about? It was left somewhere in the second bill. We discussed that once, but there is nothing to talk about in the context of this draft, because there is no amendment. Well, that is a nice way of getting rid of amendments that are unpopular to vote down or that are not recommended for any other reason. No, unfortunately, this is absolutely not correct. This is not a question of political pressure; it is a question of applying established parliamentary practices and of how we do this Parliament's work together here. Now, finally. There is little time left; we also had a small dialogue with the President of the sitting here in the meantime. It's really about sick days. During these weeks, no government policy has come out of the mouth of any adequate justification why the government does not support the reimbursement of 100% of sick days to patients with corona and their close contacts from the first day. It's not a question of a weather option. This is the Prime Minister talking about responsibility. What responsibility are we talking about in a situation where there is an overwhelming public interest in having these people at home? It has been said that local authorities should ensure sick days. Excuse me, we're talking about an epidemic, nationwide! This is not some college in Vändra municipality where it is possible for the municipality to see whether they close the school or compensate for sick days. This is a nationwide problem; we need to resolve it together. And the only reason it's sounded so far is because it costs a lot. Oh, I'm sorry! Depends on what you compare. Compared to the 700 million that goes from the extra budget to boost the economy and pay aid to people due to the situation of lost corona, this is a very small cost. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] And as a result, I must say...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U545	Your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U546	I'm sorry, I'm almost done! I must say that there is no substantive argument. And unfortunately, as a result of this roll of the road, it is not even possible to hold this debate today.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U547	Good waitress, your time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U548	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U549	I now ask the Riigikogu for a speech chair in Reuben Kaalepi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U550	Dear Riigikogu! We have had a very interesting evening today and, in order to illustrate it and to decorate it, I would like to make a little literary skirmish, because I believe that literary parallels can often illustrate and give new perspectives to the events currently under way. And I'd like three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U551	Yes, please, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U552	I read an excerpt from Viktor Pelev's book Chapaev and Pustota, a Russian writer, which was one of my favorite books in high school. Whoever wishes to find metaphors for our party policy today, but who doesn't find them, can reassure themselves with the idea that maybe it wasn't meant to be. "So are the rules of our company," Kawabata graduated. "I've already said that if I use the word "company," I don't have an exact translation. Actually, it would be right to say "clan." But if you start with this term, it can trigger suspicions and fear. That's why we'd prefer to find out what kind of person we're dealing with, and then we're just getting into the details. In your case, the answer was clear to me from the moment you read that magical poem..." Kawabata's stiffness settled, put her eyes half closed, and moved her lips for a few moments. Serdjuk realized that he repeated the sentence of the stars in heaven, which he no longer remembered quite clearly. "Awesome words. Yeah, from that very moment on, I had it all figured out for good. But there are rules, and I'm obliged to ask you the questions you're about to ask. Now I have to tell you this," Kawabata continued. "As I have already mentioned that our company is actually more of a clan, our employees are also members of the clan rather than coworkers. And the responsibilities they assume also differ from the normal obligations of a paid employee. Simply put, you will be accepted as a member of our clan, one of the oldest in Japan. The vacant post to which you are based is called "the manager's assistant in business relations with the northern barbarians." Of course, such a name may seem offensive to you, but this is a tradition that has lasted for more years than the city of Moscow. By the way, it's a pretty nice town, especially in the summer. It is a samurai position and cannot be filled by a representative of the common people. Therefore, if you are willing to do this work, I will exalt you to be a samurai." "What's the job for?" "Oh, there's nothing complicated about it," said Kawabata. "Pabers, customers. On the outside, everything is as in other companies, except that your inner attitude to what is happening must be in harmony with the harmony of space." "And how much is paid," asked Serdjuk. "You will receive two hundred and fifty chefs of rice per year," said Kawabata and squeezing his eyes closed for a second, making no calculations. "In your dollars, it's about forty thousand." "dollars"? 'As you wish,' said Kawabata, shrugging shoulders. "I agree," said Serdjuk. "That's all I expected. Now tell me, are you ready to accept yourself as the samurai of the Taira clan?" "Anyway." "Are you ready to bind your life and death to our clan?" "They have some rituals," said Serdjuk. "When will they find time to make more TVs?" "I'm ready," he said. "Would you be ready as a real man to throw life into the emptiness of a tiny flower from the edge of the abyss when you are called to it by your giri?" asked Kawabata and nodded to the engraving. Serdjuk looked at the picture again. "I'm ready," he said. "Of course. Flowering in the abyss, loosely." "Do you swear?" "I swear." "Very good," said Kawabata, "very good. Now there's only one small formality left, that's all. We have to get confirmation from Japan. But it'll only take a few minutes." He sat behind the fax, looking for a blank sheet of paper, and then suddenly he got his hands on a brush somewhere. Serdjuk changed his pose. From sitting on a long floor, his legs were dead, and he thought he'd have to find out from Kawabata if he wasn't supposed to bring a little little stool to work. Then he looked around to see if there were any traces of sake left, but the bottle, which had a few drops left at the bottom, had disappeared. Kawabata dealt with the paper, and Serdjuk was afraid to ask, "He couldn't be sure that he wouldn't break the ritual. " He remembered the poetic oath he had now made. God, he thought, there are many vows I have made in my life! Have I promised to fight for the Communist Party's sacred cause? Five times, if you include any real child abuse. Have I promised to marry Masha? I am. And last night in Chistõe Prudy, when he got taken with those idiots, I promised you we'd make another one for my money. And where I've come from! Blossom the gorge. Kawabata had then finished painting the paper with a brush, she blew it on the paper and showed it to Serdjuk. There was a large chrysanthemum drawn on the paper with a black tush. "What is it," asked Serdjuk. "Oh," said Kawabata. "It's chrysanthemum. When our family grows up with a new member, it will be such a pleasure for the entire Taira clan that it is inappropriate to entrust it to the care of the paper. In such cases, we usually draw a flower on paper if we want to send a message to the management. And it's the same flower we talked about a few moments ago. He symbolizes your life now belonging to the Taira clan, and at the same time proves that you have finally acknowledged his brief cost of ephemerism..." "I got it," said Serdjuk. Kawabata blew it on a sheet of paper again, then pushed it into a fax slot, and started picking some huge long number. He didn't succeed until the third time. The fax began to buzz, the green light flashed in the corner of the apparatus, and the leaf crawled into the black slot until slowly vanished into it. Kawabata looked focusedly at the apparatus without moving and changing position. Several annoyingly long minutes passed, then the fax started buzzing again, and somewhere under his black bottom crawled out a new sheet of paper. Serdjuk immediately realized that was the answer. Kawabata waited until the leaf appeared at its full length, only then pulled it out of the machine, looked at the paper, and slowly turned his eyes to Serdjuk. "Congratulations," he said, "Congratulations from the heart! The answer is very favorable." He handed the paper to Serdjuk. Serdjuk picked it up and saw another drawing. This time there was a long, half curved stick, some patterns on it and one side jagged.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U553	Thank you. A procedural question. Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U554	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Could you not, on my behalf, thank my esteemed colleague, Reuben Kaalepit, for his excellent reading and recommend that he read the classics in the original language in future, because this translation was not the best one?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U555	Thank you. He's less than a meter from you on the left. You'll recognize him, and you'll be free to give him credit. I think we all deserve credit here, and I'm sure I will. Mr Kaalep, Mr Lotman congratulates you on your speech, although he says that in future you will speak this text in the original language. But let's move on, we got over here, so this question has been resolved, too, and I will give the floor to Kert Kingo for negotiation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U556	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We are constantly talking about the rule of law and we regard ourselves as the rule of law. In the light of all this, it is really very embarrassing that the Riigikogu, which is working out the laws and should serve as an example, in particular with proper and normal activities, is not an example in this case. What happened last Thursday in the Committee on Social Affairs is difficult to justify. It can't be. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that our decisions affect our entire society and all our people in one way or another. So we have to do what we do here, maybe work out the laws very properly and thoughtfully. Honourable members of the Coalition Group! With what face do you look people in the eye, smacking up the pendant-rapa, in an accelerated manner, into the laws that you expect them to enforce correctly later? Let us continue to act and act in such a way that no one should be ashamed of what you have done later and to correct what has been done all the time! I very much hope that action, as was the case with this draft procedure, will not happen again. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U557	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U558	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen. I listened here to Reuben Kaalepit and listened to Lotman, and I also found amazingly that I have a particularly good match with Jevgeni Ossinovski today. It seems to me that I agree with almost everything he says. When I listened to Mrs. Eagle, I also remembered the classic lines that sounded something like that. You ask what our purpose is. I can only answer with one word: it is a victory. It's a victory at all costs, a victory no matter what terror, no matter how long and hard the road is. That was the impression I had when I listened to Mrs Eagle's speech. In fact, those words I quoted, they said Churchill. So Mrs Eagle may feel good because her speech was just as enthusiastic and equally exciting. But, good people, we live in democracy, we live in a democratic parliamentary society, and it is such a difference that we satisfy the needs of society in accordance with parliamentary order, by handling matters correctly, in accordance with the laws and practices in force, in order to achieve what the people expect of us, as the people expect of us. And if we do not do so if we fail to follow this parliamentary order, the Rules of Procedure Act, established traditions, then there is no need for parliamentaryism. He won't justify himself at all. So why do we even have this, and what else can we do? However, we can still do very one thing......... to voters that we are able to follow existing procedures, established laws, practices, norms, then there will still be nothing else left if I have to repeat again my good colleague Ossinovski [words] that we must interrupt, we must definitely interrupt the procedure of this law in order to then turn the procedure of this same law on the right paths, on the legal tracks. [[The connection's breaking up.]] That's my idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U559	Thank you. It is really good to listen here to this common breathing and common sense how subsidies are in different directions. But now, of course, there could be a break. A procedural question, Jevgeni Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U560	Thank you. No doubt I have also looked with fear that Mr Puustusmaa would agree with me very much today. But no, I don't want an answer. I'd like to ask you how this procedure is. He quoted Winston Churchill, which, for obvious reasons, does not have the right to be heard in the present case. But is the verbatim service or the sitting department checking whether the quote was accurate or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U561	I think we are, at the moment when you ask us that, we are based on what the members of the Riigikogu are saying, and it will also be written in a verbatim report. Martin Helme, the round of negotiations has now reached you. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U562	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. I'm asking for an extra three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U563	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U564	Yeah, well, today's been a very intense day. And I have to say, maybe some people don't quite know what we're doing here. So let me explain the broader picture a little bit. Firstly, our party group supports the additional budget proposed by the government. Our group also believes that we can support the amendment of the basic school and upper secondary school law, because we consider it reasonable and necessary to organise school work flexibly during a pandemic. We also understand the pace of this bill that the exams are imposing and schools and students need clarity. Our political party also supports the law on artists and creative associations, because we consider the measures it provides to be necessary and reasonable. And indeed, we also support the changes foreseen in the draft law on the organisation of health services. We also support payment for health days from day one during a pandemic. But here I stress that we will only support this measure during a pandemic. And I would like to remind you that it was us, the previous government that took the same measure last year, and it was the government of our party, which in autumn put a temporary measure into the state budget, to compensate for the health days from the second day. What we absolutely do not support, however, is when the government takes the view that the Riigikogu must correct its failure. The government made an additional budget and asked the Riigikogu to deal with it quickly. As an opposition party, we were understanding and willing to work fast. We have not made too many suggestions for improvement or any other form of obstruction. But then the government discovered, even after the budget was presented, that there were still a number of legislative changes that had to be made before the budget was adopted. How come you didn't know that before? Didn't they really understand or didn't make it or didn't care? The Riigikogu was found to be able to correct the incompetence or negligence of the government, even to begin to correct, without question and at an absurd pace. I just have a parallel to take my life from me again. When we were in the government, as a minister of finance, I have brought three budgets to the government, two ordinary procedures and one additional budget, we also knew in what order the drafts had to be submitted. That, if changes to other professional laws are to be made to the budget allocations, they must be adopted before the budget is adopted. This is the homework that needs to be done to move in the light of the rhythm of Parliament's work and with respect for Parliament's rules. It is not right, it is simply not appropriate to force Members of Parliament to read four or five drafts quickly. It is not appropriate for them to be deprived of the possibility of actually proposing substantive amendments to these drafts, as the deadlines for the proposed amendments are absurdly short. It is not normal for the staff of the committees to then ask the Bureau, in order to prepare the materials, to derogate from the rule so that the materials can reach the hall later than is actually foreseen in our work. It's all abnormal. The government cannot sit on the Riigikogu and snap and say that you, the constitutional institution that is the head of the government, jump now, shove and jump through the rings because we have not done our job. And then come to tell us some more weeping song about how people expect money. It is not our party and it has not been a parliament between people and money, but we are out for it so that it does not pass over the Riigikogu and its working methods. I see that this is the pattern of today's government, which takes the posture, that everyone else has to suffer for these omissions, and everyone else is still guilty of these omissions. It just doesn't work. What took place in the Committee on Legal Affairs has been said quite a lot here today, and the debate that we had on the Board of the Riigikogu has been discussed today. My attitude is very simple, my message is very simple. If they make a roller, we can change the rules to one side or the other, but resourceful and willing people will still be able to show their attitude. And we're showing that attitude right now, we've been showing it all day. This message must be very clear. It is not the case that the executive, which is set by Parliament, or our subordinate, comes and snaps and tells us to do it quickly. In fact, this has caused so much trouble and confusion and anger and hatred in this parliamentary procedure that it has been completely unnecessary. There has been no reason that we could not have done all the other readings this week, so that all the ambassadors could have tabled amendments so that the committees could bring these documents to the Chamber on time, and we would have done the third readings next week. If these drafts are in a hurry, these third readings should not have even been put on Wednesday, which is our usual practice, these third readings could have been done on Monday. Everything would have come to pass. It wouldn't have been a fight. But no. Sudden or foolishness or laziness or recklessness, simply incompetence was decided in favour of a roller coaster. Well, as a result of this roller, we'll be here at 10:30 in the morning listening to some of the exciting literature classics. Maybe next time it won't be like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U565	Thank you. Eduard Odines, I beg you to speak to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U566	Ladies and gentlemen in this Chamber and on the other side of the screen! First of all, [good] late night to everything! I was wondering what I was gonna do here. There is still a long agenda ahead, as well as important questions and questions for the social democrats waiting for their debate. But I was touched by one of the speeches that sounded here, actually the only speech that came from today's coalition. And there's this phrase that got me so much soul that I thought, well, now I can't shut up, I have to come here, and I have to talk. The Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, Mrs Kotka, said that you are playing your games here by addressing the opposition. Dear Siret, we don't play games here. We are really concerned about how things are being done here in the Riigikogu, as well as how our country as a whole is fighting this pandemic, so that we can eventually get back to a normal life. In the Committee on Social Affairs, the way in which the road roll, the tank or any heavy equipment was run over every possible time, claiming that it is legally just yes, maybe every lawyer will also find a legal justification for such behaviour. But there can be no justification for this behaviour, that one parliamentary group will essentially be cut off from the opportunity to defend its proposals, to ask for a debate on these proposals and also to call for a vote in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu. This has now happened, under the leadership of Mrs Eagle, with the Socialist proposal to support sickness benefits for all people from day one and 100%. This isn't a game. These are the real people that have been run over. And this is a real measure, as a number of colleagues have already said here, so that people stay at home and do not work in close contact or get sick. We have already heard here from various calculations that it can still be well over 30% of monthly income. It is my custom to give examples lately from Ida-Viru County, once from my family, once from relatives, once from voters' speeches and letters. Just recently, I received a call from an oil shale mine named Alexander, who told his story about his wife losing her job at the store because of the corona and how she is the only fooder in the family with two other underage children. He works in the oil shale mine, there is no way to stay home, there is no way to work remotely, there is a large company. They travel more than an hour from 56 kilometers in a joint bus, an employer bus, all the men together, early in the morning and late in the evening, depending on the shift. And he once remained in close contact with a good person, and he stayed home beautifully - 30% of half a month [of pay] gone. Then he stayed in close contact for the second time, stayed home again. And then he says he won't stay for the third time. Then his father-in-law stayed in close contact, but unfortunately they went on a forest trip with their father-in-law just a few days ago. According to the health department's interpretation, the whole family who went camping with this father-in-law is now in close contact. And now he says that the next time he's in close contact or if he even feels any symptoms, if he's even sick, he won't stay home. He keeps going to his mine. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U567	How much do you want?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U568	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U569	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U570	Thank you, Mr President. So he drives the bus over and over again in the morning, back there in the evening, or according to his night shift or morning shift. And so this virus spreads to us in Ida-Virumaa, and so we report how the Eastern virumaans are the sickest people in Estonia. And that's how we close things up. And then the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee tells us we're playing games. When games are played, it is coalition ambassadors who play these games, creating the need for people to go to work sick or in close contact, because people alone in their families do not want to lose more than 30% of their income. If we ask the representative of the Social Affairs Committee, the waitress from this court, which is your position, which is this substantive debate, why you vote the same way in the lower town, Toompea voting the different way, there will be no answer. This was not a point of discussion. What else can be the point of discussion if not how to fight a pandemic, how to fight the crisis? No, we're gonna roll over. We don't even take it into consideration, we don't even take it into consideration. We're in a hurry. We have a fast core school and upper secondary school law, so the law enters into force when the upper secondary school exams are already in place. We're busy with other laws, we're busy with this law. The crisis didn't come yesterday or the day before yesterday. Where have you been, dear coalition ambassadors, where have you been, dear government, a few weeks earlier? No, now we're driving a roll and we're explaining it by being busy and telling the opposition: you're playing games. We don't play games. We really care about the Estonian people, we really care about the working people who are forced to work. And we don't want this disease spreading through these working people. We want to offer them additional protection, temporary protection, which requires only EUR 8.5 million from the state budget. And you're telling us we're playing games. I'm sorry, look in the mirror! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U571	Thank you. Now the word is Henn in the field. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U572	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, The Estonian Conservative People's Party is designed to stand up for the Estonian people and our country, because we care about it. We stand for democracy and freedom, freedom of thought, expression and religion and for the rights of all citizens. Nevertheless, that is precisely why we have been consistently accused of wanting to introduce dictatorship and censorship etc., etc. The President went so far as to offend the Riigikogu, coming to our highest legislative body with a sweatshirt with the letter "The Word Is Free" on it. And the word was free. Indeed, the word was free, and no one restricted any rights to humans. Estonia was a democratic state. Now, unfortunately, when the new government, the extremely liberal government, has been in power for barely three months, we see what really means 'liberal democracy', which we have been trying to force in previous years, but especially now to impose. We see Estonia being turned into a police state under beautiful slogans, trying to suppress freedom of speech, freedom of thought, punishing people, trying to muzzle the media, etc. We see it every step of the way. We also see this in the Riigikogu's day-to-day work when the most brutal road roll policy is driven over the opposition, despite the violation of all good practices, the rules of procedure are being violated. It doesn't matter anything at all. Such a government, such a coalition, cannot and must not last for long, because the result is a society in which we have once been a totalitarian society. We don't want to go back there. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U573	Of course. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U574	Thank you. I therefore inform the government in power and the Estonian public on behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia that we are forced to carry out an obstacle to work aimed at countering the anti-constitutional policies of the government that restrict civil and political rights. This government policy is reflected in attempts to restrict freedom of expression by the draft amendment to the Media Services Act and other civil liberties through the prevention and control of communicable diseases and the payment order and the Emergency Act, as well as in a disproportionate demonstration of force against peaceful demonstrators exercising their constitutional rights. As long as the government has not proved that it wishes to comply with the constitutional order of the Republic of Estonia, the Conservative People's Party of Estonia considers it necessary to express its protest with obstruction. Unfortunately, as an opposition party, we see no other option in this situation. The need for obstruction will end as soon as the coalition proves with concrete steps that respect for freedom of expression and other civil liberties is based on constitutional principles and democratic principles. When the coalition makes normal work possible in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U575	Thank you. Now Urmas Reitelmann has the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U576	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not gonna talk for a long time, but a couple of points that occurred to me tonight, I'd like to pass on to you with your kind permission. What has taken place in the last few weeks in the Riigikogu is not exceptional. It's just as sloppy and incompetent that things have actually been done before. One example is this unfortunate Ministry of Social Affairs. For example, there have also been public procurements made at the end of last year and the latter at the beginning of this year, just like that, in principle, the procurement was organised in such a way that it was put up about a quarter of an hour before the end of the working day and the contract was due the following day at 11:00. Or the logistics of the COVID vaccines, with a deadline of three days, no hello, hello! Three days! Estonia is not a huge country, but no normal company can make calculations, calculations, evaluate its options, take offers from partners to make a decent offer of it within three days. This is simply not possible. At the same time, we have the logistics units of the Defence Forces in Estonia who would have solved all these things with playful ease. By comparison, for example, the administration of Donald Trump, when they formed a brain center in the United States to fight COVID, where the best national experts were involved, all these professors and academics and nobelists were also taken from the logistics system by a general who was given full authority to enter into direct contracts on behalf of the state with both Federal Express and UPS, and everything works. What happened in America with the vaccination is simply admirable. A small country like Estonia, which is, I don't know, the number of inhabitants of a small American town and the territorially non-existent curfew on the map, and we can't do it. And whose fault is that? It's a government mistake, it's the legacy of today's sitting government and the Socialist Minister from the previous government. What the Ministry of Social Affairs did this summer is absolutely incomprehensible. I don't know if the Chancellor and the Deputy Secretary General of the Health Area watched the flies fly in the office. All these things could have been prepared already in the summer when the situation was calm, all procurements. Well, depressing, depressing. The swing, the Prisk, and Jesse are the people we should look the blame on right now. And, of course, Prime Minister Kallas has also added, who simply cannot do his job. And he doesn't have to, because not all people are meant to be leaders. That's what I'm saying about Tanel Kiig, who's a nice person, undoubtedly, in a certain area, he's competent, but at some point he's just... I'm bringing a comparison here with the military that if you're still a battalion commander, no one's gonna put you in charge of the division, only in case of emergency. The leader is raised and cannot put a person in a role and position for which he has, first, no competence, and, second, what is very important in the functioning of the state is that you have some sort of personal experience, you have been burned in life, you have made mistakes, and you know what you must and what you can do. But yes, we are in such a situation that what is actually happening on our streets, ladies and gentlemen, and the people who led you to watch and listen to it from some other internship, is the result of the government's chickening, stopping and incompetence. And this is where the rapes and overrolls and the desire for the government to act in the Riigikogu today, 2021, as was done in the Supreme Council of the Estonian SSR in 1982, when the party's orders were read out of sight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U577	I request the Riigikogu speech chair Raimond Kaljulaid.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U578	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. The same issue of compensation for sick days was discussed very thoroughly by Tallinn City Council on Thursday last week. It was really a very good, very substantive debate that took place in the city council, and the city council decided jointly and with a large majority of votes to support the city administration's proposal to compensate the Tallinners for a certain amount of the first day of sickness. This is done by Tallinn from its own city budget. This is the right decision, I very much appreciate it. And indeed, all the political forces represented in the Tallinn City Council were in favour of it, and one of the ambassadors was opposed, as I mentioned earlier, that was Jürgen Ligi. But Tallinn is the most prosperous municipality in Estonia with a budget of over 800 million euros and can afford this extra cost. The standard of living in Tallinn is one of the highest in Estonia, and so it turns out that the benefit of the first day of sickness, which is most needed especially for people with lower incomes... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I'm sorry, I must have interrupted your conversation. The benefit that is needed for the people of Estonia with the lowest income is paid in the municipality with the highest average wages or almost the highest average income. What should the people of Ida-Virumaa, the people of Narva, the inhabitants of the islands, Hiiumaa, Saaremaa, whose representatives are also in this hall? Interestingly, when it comes to today's government departments, in Tallinn they have the principle that sick days must be compensated from day one, supported and partly the same people who are represented in this hall, and at the same time they will vote against this principle. Of course, this isn't new. Almost all Estonian political parties, perhaps with few exceptions, are, for example, in favour of the President's direct election, yet this is not legalised in this Chamber. But the way in which the vote is taken on the same issue in the capital council in the same way, in the Riigikogu in a different way, of course it is strange. It would be as strange if, for example, my colleague, Helle-Moonika Helme, would vote in favour of the Cohabitation Act in the City Council of Tallinn and here in the Riigikogu is opposed. Well, that would be weird, wouldn't it? But that is exactly what the Reform Party has done. We know that here in the Riigikogu they are more opposed to compensation for this first day of sick leave, but unfortunately, the Tallinn Council votes differently. In fact, this sickness benefit, the sickness allowance from the first day, it should be an elementary thing, it should actually have been done a long time ago. Just waiting so long for us to hang out with it for so long, that's wrong. We should think much further than that. How can we provide additional support to the people of Estonia, who are really very, very difficult in this crisis? And it is particularly difficult for those who have a large family, but actually also for our elderly and many more of our working people. I can give you examples. For example, the Japanese government paid a grant of 100,000 yen at one point to all Japanese residents. It is close to 800 euros in Estonian money. Within the framework of the last United States aid package, transfers were made, if I am not mistaken, to nearly 160 million households worth up to $1,400 in the United States. If you don't mind, Mr. President, I'm asking for more time. If I may! How much can we get?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U579	Three is possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U580	I'd like three.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U581	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U582	Thank you. Yes, in the United States, which is such a fortress of neoliberalism, isn't it, the pulpit of the right, and yet there are support for simple people, people on the street more generously and more than in Estonia. So in the light of today's discussion, we should ask very seriously why the Estonian state does not support the people of Estonia. This is, of course, a broader issue. It's a wider subject. I do not know whether we will be able to reach out today to the question of tax policy. After all, at today's meeting, we will be waiting for the Minister of Finance, Keit Pentus-Rosimit, if we can get to the point of course. And this question is precisely about how we can finance our healthcare sector, our education sector, other vital services that are vital to people on a daily basis in a situation where our budget deficit is increasing. The state's costs exceeded revenue even before the crisis began. And from there, this minus has gotten a lot worse. How can we do this? How do we go back to budgetary balance when it is agreed that there will be no changes in taxes, so they will not be able to increase the revenue of the state. Consequently, the only option is to cut costs. I do not think that the people of Estonia today can even imagine what decisions the government in office will take in the near future and what painful and severe cuts must be made in the budget. These are the broader issues that need to be resolved, and in conclusion, I would like to say that in order to resolve this, ladies and gentlemen in this Chamber, in their homes all over Estonia, there is a need for unity and co-ordination and even cooperation. And, of course, it is not the desire for cooperation and consensus that is enhanced by one party imposing its will. The other side, of course, will then try to resist it, as in some ways maybe this speech I made here today, I will not deny. And that's actually how you move away from each other, all the time. It is increasingly difficult to create this common part and understanding. But it is up to all of us to work to make sure that there is more and more of this common section, figuratively speaking. [You must] do good things every day, say good words to move in that direction. Of course, there are differences between political parties, that is different political parties, different politicians, they have different views, but certainly move all the time towards this cooperative mindset, that is important. So I hope that this debate today, too, will in some way bring our views closer together. In a way, of course, it does. It's a shame. But in the end, I think that everyone who is in this Chamber, and also those who are virtually in this Chamber, are all here for Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U583	Peter Ernits, please! Yes, Helle-Moonika Helme! So, you have a speech, but we have...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U584	Since my name was mentioned, I would kindly ask for two minutes to object, if I may.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U585	Please, two minutes! Mr. Ernits, I'm afraid you'll have to wait.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U586	Thank you, President-in-Office. A good previous speaker gave a very encouraging speech. And we all know he's a really good speaker, almost like Vladimir Ilyich Lenin making a speech from the car box. But I'm sure Vladimir Ilyich Lenin, when he spoke about that car box, sometimes made very arbitrary statements. Otherwise, the socialist October revolution would not have happened. But I just want to point out, for the sake of protocol, that I will never vote in favour of the Cohabitation Act, either in the wishful thinking of the previous speaker or in real life.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U587	Now it's your turn, Peter Ernits. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U588	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, It seems to me that today or tonight could be a sign. Two fat sisters were born once, one named 347 SE and the other named 355 SE. It was quite recently, and apparently they were very cheerful and strong. But unexpectedly, obstacles arose in the way of the first sister. At the beginning of the month, all our mailboxes were clogged by massive spam letters. There were so many of them that I erased hundreds of them. It wasn't until I thought I'd see if there was a living person behind them that I wrote and came out that it was a living person. And after that, I continued and met more than a hundred nice people, who are not some so-called flat countrymen, but who are worried, who are disappointed with Estonia's current power, government, dawn government and who have turned to us in despair. Talking to these people at the time, not here on Toompea Square, later on, I got the impression that this fight was all pointless. Because spam letters fall, where they go to the trash can. And there's no use in them. But this situation began to evolve and change. Last Wednesday night, we spent another nice night here, if you remember. We talked about everything, but at the same time, Toompea was blocked by the police. And last Sunday, this police demonstration of power came to a total absurdity when the rapid reacters and the riot police were in front of the Dome Church and the dogs were yapping. I haven't seen such a show of power since the Bronze Night. After the bronze night! So the confrontation reeled, the tension increased. And then after the stormy night, our night together, which we spent again in this house or virtually, one of the sisters started to run away. The next day, a large portion of this sister was brought and transferred or sewn to another sister's body. I understand, of course, that colleagues here are very upset that so suddenly and so much and so much and not spoken, but look, if the raft is sinking or you can see that it is sinking, then you need to act quickly, you need to be saved. The same sick days thing, and everything else, including the formalities for the death certificate and the medicine law and laws that were grafted on to the 355, about which colleagues here have been very upset and rightly upset, they were all the buttons or the big things that were grafted onto that other sister. But what happens next? I don't know if I'm wrong, but I think this first sister, this 347, is actually gonna die. But he dies slowly and quietly. If recently I thought it was gonna be another week until it gets here in the big hall, I think that if she gets here, she'll be somewhere before Midsummer Day or I don't know. Or, as often in such cases, just dies, collapses quietly. And I'm actually happy about that. There won't be a police state. People who fear and have approached us are likely to be able to breathe more easily after tonight. I don't know if that's true. But I think he's gonna die soon enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U589	Do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U590	Yeah, a few minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U591	Two minutes is enough?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U592	Three is enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U593	You can't get more than three.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U594	And I don't.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U595	Two or three?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U596	Three. I will read to you a letter that [sent] one of those people, hundreds with whom I am in correspondence, Kadri, is his name. He was very happy that someone would bother to answer that anonymous mass. He writes: "It was the same time that sending e - mails opened up a new perspective. Looking at the names of all the members of the Riigikogu, I realized that we actually had some really great players there, and for the first time there was such a feeling that there were real people there, and it was nice to feel that way. On the other hand, it wonders why, then, on a daily basis, everything that is made and decided on Toompea seems to be in the system, as remote as it is in a completely different reality." It is one of these many letters, very warm and human. And it seems to me that, with this bill being dealt with, really over and over and over again, we may have come a little closer to a better world. And this concern is most likely broken or at least draft 347, if he ever gets to this hall, actually doesn't get very far and probably just disappears. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U597	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U598	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! I am sincerely pleased to hear and see you give special, in some cases even nuclear, speeches here at this late hour. As social democrats, we are here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu defending the principle that sick days are reimbursed from day one and 100%. We have asked both the Minister for Health and Labour and the Prime Minister why our proposal cannot be supported. We have provided our own explanations, called on the Prime Minister's group to explain to him why it is necessary to pay compensation for the first day and 100% to limit a particularly dangerous infectious disease. I believe you all remember when we asked the Prime Minister in this Chamber: are you opposed to 100% reimbursement of sick days because it is expensive, it is unfair, I mean that it is very important to have a self-responsibility component for the Prime Minister's party, or is it an ineffective measure to manage the epidemic? The answer has been in our group as well as here in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu that the Reform Party does not support this principle. But why, we have not received an answer to that question. Similarly, we have stressed that if the number of people-to-people contacts starts to grow again now when [the society] is opened, if we still come to its opening, now it welcomes that this could happen in May, it is particularly important to have adequate preventive measures so that we do not have a third wave. That is why the Social Democrats have been talking for a long time, i.e. about the need to repair the sickness days system from last autumn, so that people who have been diagnosed with a positive corona test and COVID and their close contacts should not pay a fine in the form of lost income if they have to remain isolated. In some cases, in real life, a person loses EUR 400 from EUR 1000 per month. And, of course, it is in no way ethical for a person to charge such a fee for the livelihood of his family. The Prime Minister has repeatedly promised the Social Democrats that he will once again think that the state would temporarily reimburse the Korona patients 100% of their salary, starting on the first day. If we look at today's sickness-day system, it actually creates inequality. If we look at where more earners work than average, they still work mostly at jobs where they cannot work from home, work online, work through Zoom. And those who can work at home have thus minimized their risk of infection, but those who still have to go to the collective or object to bring bread to the table have, of course, a higher risk of infection than white collars working at home. If the shop vendors are still at the counter and someone who doesn't have a mask comes to the store, the seller usually serves him, but at the same time risks his own health. ... that a person with lower pay will inevitably be infected more often and with lower wages... [[Bad connection, no word.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U599	Good Heljo Pikhof, time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U600	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U601	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U602	... then he also loses significantly in salary. At the same time, nothing can happen to someone with a higher salary who can work at home. And it's very good to have him in good health! When we talk about saying that local authorities can compensate for additional sick days if they think it is necessary, I think that many local authorities do not have the money to do so. Let's say that Tallinn is a bigger local government, it has more money, but if we look at Vändra or Võru or any other place, it's the kind of support that makes up for some amount for its residents from the first day of sickness, most local governments cannot afford. And now for this hindrance component. There is no way to agree that, if there is a particularly dangerous infectious disease, then there must certainly be a liability for the first day. Although a person may be very careful, it all depends on whether his or her risk of infection is greater or lower, where he or she works, who is around him, whether they adhere to the rules or not. We also know many cases where a person working in a large company gets a positive test result and then reports only three or four close contacts to the Health Board, because his employer has asked him not to give up everyone. In the same way, the employer has to bear very high costs in the event of a fire. Our draft states that this 8 million will still come from the additional budget of the country, but not from the employer's pocket. At present [is] the reason why the employer tells employees not to give up close contacts, that he sees that he must pay for the first day of illness himself.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U603	But now time is really over.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U604	And so are cases where people don't even go to the test.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U605	Good Heljo, your time is up.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U606	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U607	Please! Riina Sikkut, please! Good Riina, we haven't been able to reach you at the moment. Riina Sikkut and I are gonna try it again right now, so we're gonna have a hard two minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U608	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, And that is ladies and gentlemen. I looked, it is nice to see on the electronic desktop that 95 members of the Riigikogu are currently in session. If it seems to us that only the opposition is making speeches here, the coalition ambassadors are all here. And what do I put to you, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition in particular? The subject has been very well spoken here today. I would like to mention the analysis of Priit Sibula and its summary of the committee, where 355 of this draft law came into action. Everyone would have agreed with this immediately, we would have already voted on it and the second reading would have been completed. But indeed, in the Commission's 'twelfth hour', an amendment from 347 on sick days, which is undoubtedly very necessary, was introduced into this draft. But, oh, the inexperience of the chairman of the committee! Not thinking about what's going to happen here tonight, he didn't see it coming and forgot about this Socialist Amendment 347. So, today we may be having a debate, but the subject that is the basis of the debate is somewhere else in the bill. That is what the Commission rapporteur said to us. And here's a very simple suggestion. Jevgeni Ossinovski spoke very accurately about how this procedure could actually be applied. We could adopt this bill next week in the Chamber, I think, in a consensual manner. So let us interrupt this reading today, the Commission will meet tomorrow, the points will be voted on the day after tomorrow, and the draft will come to the big hall. How the great hall decides, so in the first day of illness, we will be able to adopt or reject this draft in a calmly third reading. Dear friends, let us be correct here in the Riigikogu! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U609	And now let's try to get back in touch with Riina Sikkut. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U610	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Am I hearing this now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U611	Yeah. You're nice to hear, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U612	Thank you. The Commission's rapporteur today, in answering the question of Priit Sibula, said that it was important for him that this important change concerning people's incomes, the incomes of those who are fighting a serious illness at home [would be received in time] and that they would have the confidence that this desired extension to compensate for the illness days from the second day would still have been made before 1 May. And this is the motivation for which customs and rules have been broken. I assure you that it is important for me too that the generous reimbursement of sick days be accepted before 1 May. And when we look at this debate here tonight, it seems that it is absolutely important for all members of the Riigikogu to be able to move forward at a rapid pace with sick days. An extension of this earlier agreement is absolutely necessary. That is why the Social Democrats have been paying attention to the need to extend compensation for sick days even before the government reached the Riigikogu with the draft extension. And not just that. On 17 September, the Sotsi submitted a draft compensation for sick days, which provided for a more generous sickness benefit for at least two years and thereafter after two years and two winter seasons of infection, the effectiveness of the measure and the need for a decision on how to proceed with the reimbursement of sick days should be assessed. Unfortunately, at first reading on 18 November, this draft was rejected. The reason given by Tõnis Möldr, Chairman of the Customs Social Committee, was that there was still a need to discuss. He is personally in favour of this generous compensation, of course, but a measure must be found that is longer than one or two years. This should be a measure suitable for "all ages." And now we know that, at all times, this suitable bill introduced compensation for four months. Four months! Even then, in the autumn, it was as if the pretext was that we need to discuss and reach an agreement with the social partners. And so it took more than four months to discuss a solution for a period of four months. Today, too, the waitress clinged to the social partners that the current solution has been made in the agreement, and therefore nothing else can be done. Of course, at the second reading of the Health and Safety at Work Act, which makes sickness days [reimbursement] more generous, I also asked about this and stated that indeed, tripartite negotiations on working life and labour market organisation are very valuable and it will take time to reach agreement. This commitment to social partnership is something I would very much like to see in all the drafts on working life. At the same time, in the spring of the crisis, the country reimbursed the first three days of sickness. The employer did not play a role in the payment of compensation, there were no obligations, and the employer was not disturbed by this solution in any way. Even now, in the case of the Social Democrat proposal concerning the first day of illness and 100% compensation for corona positive and close contacts, this measure is one that the state takes on and does not impose this cost on employers who will have to find a replacement, restructure their work and react quickly. This is a crisis measure. First in the autumn, sick days were not wanted to be reimbursed. Although the spread of the incidence rate and the number of workplace centres led to a change in the existing compensation scheme, a temporary solution was agreed for four months. It will now be extended to four months at the price of a procedural infringement. In fact, just as Kalvi has just finished, this solution is not complicated in any way: to bring along the amendment concerning the substance of the draft and to allow the ambassadors to vote on the proposal they have tabled in the Chamber. It's a question of pure will. And now we are arguing here about this draft, which extends the compensation until the end of the year. It is really interesting what we will discuss again in December.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U613	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U614	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U615	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U616	This reluctance to consider the 100% reimbursement of corona-positive and close contact sick days from the first day of our common money is, in fact, strange. This is a crisis measure with a clear focus. If we don't have an infection, if the infection doesn't spread, there's no expense. No one is questioning efficiency. In the fall, it's exactly the same. No one is arguing that, more generous compensation for sick days, people will be left home with their first symptoms. There is much talk of ownership, which, on the one hand, means that a person who is afraid of losing income avoids going to test and it is difficult for close contacts to make themselves known. Because this, as we have heard today, in some cases means two, three, four or five times the loss of income in six months. And also, Heljo pointed out nicely that the risk of infection is not equal for all of us, and the loss of income is not equally painful for all of us. So large collectives, lower-paid jobs and jobs where teleworking cannot be done are those where there is a higher risk of infection and a more painful loss of income for people. After all, today it has become clear that, as with all previous debates, there are no substantive arguments against the fact that, as a crisis measure, there is no reward for the corona-positive and close contacts. It is therefore completely incomprehensible why the constructive proposal of the opposition aimed at curbing the spread of infection does not even recommend voting in the large Chamber. The price of an infringement of procedural practice shall avoid voting in a large Chamber. I don't understand. I also think it would be wise to interrupt reading and, after all, to bring the Socialist Group's amendment to this draft and to put it to the vote in the large Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U617	Indrek... I'm sorry! Evgeny Ossinovski, you have the first procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U618	Thank you, Mr President. It's 11:31. How does the President assess whether we are going to be able to go through the Monday agenda today or whether it seems impossible to do so? My modest experience in this Chamber says that, however, the position of the members of the board should be shaped here during the day has bounced different views on how Mr Grünthal could speak in his free microphone for five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U619	Thank you for this question. We'll deal with today's agenda until 24:00 and then we'll proceed tomorrow at 10:00. Indrek Saar, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U620	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. We have already been here in the second half of the day, it has been quite a few good hours, a debate on the possible solutions to such situations. We have all repeatedly discussed how we have come into this situation and what has gone wrong, and have realised that we have been deprived of the right to vote in favour of the amendment that we have tabled. [It has been done] in breach of good practice in lawmaking, as has been recognised here from both the hall and the management board, by essentially raising part of one draft law to another, namely, as regards sick days, by taking away the opportunity to vote on the Socialist Amendment that concerns these sick days.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U621	Is there a question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U622	We've been discussing this since 3:00 today. Yes, indeed, in the meantime there were two very important draft laws, but their discussions went on rather quickly, compared to what we have said on the subject of bill 355...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U623	Mr. Island, do you have a question? It's gonna be really long.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U624	... the implementation and approval of this week's agenda, as currently under discussion of this draft law. The chairman of the meeting took a break during the afternoon to discuss with the Bureau how to interpret the possibility provided by the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, as stated in chapter...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U625	Indrek, I'll cut your microphone if you don't ask. Do you have a procedural question or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U626	It says in § 107 that the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has the right to interrupt the second reading of the draft without voting.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U627	Indrek, I got your point, thank you, I'm not gonna let it go again.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U628	... the board of directors' right. Mr President, the right of the Bureau to propose an interruption is necessary to enable the Bureau to resolve the deadlock caused by political confrontation in the work of the Riigikogu. Is this not the place where there is an obvious political deadlock and the President should not take an additional break and round up the board?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U629	Thank you! It was not procedural, this subject has already gone through before, and it received an exhaustive reply before which the Bureau decided. Let's move on with the negotiations, Anti Division, please! Mr. Semimets, we can't get in touch with you right now, we'll leave you on hold. In the meantime, let's give the floor to Merry Aart, and then we'll come back to Mr. Polish Forest. Please, Merry Aart!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U630	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. Am I hearing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U631	Yeah, okay. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U632	Thank you. I've been a member of the Riigikogu for a short time, and I've had things here before that have amazed me, but today I'm really puzzled. My life experience says, or I know, that democracy can indeed be of a destructive nature, but from the moment the decision has been made and the period of implementation begins. I would very much like to congratulate Mrs Helmen Kütt, who, regardless of who is proposing the bill, is fighting for his subject and is doing it very constructively and politely. But I'm very impressed with what's been going on here today. When the representative of the Commission says that almost no substantive issues were discussed in the Commission, I simply do not understand how it is possible to shape positions that are not discussed. I can say that there are discussions in the Committee on Rural Affairs. Perhaps these discussions are not so stormy there, but they are still trying to find consensus and they are still coming up with basically negotiated questions. I understand that. Maybe sometimes I think we could be a little more aggressive, but that's it. In any case, consensus and consensus have been sought. I very much hope that this practice in committees, as has been shown here today, will not become normal. That is my expectation and my hope for our committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U633	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U634	Ladies and gentlemen, The improvement of legislation and [the laws] in this time of crisis should reflect the lessons and lessons we have learned from this crisis. But I see that, unfortunately, this is not the case. I would like to analyse here a little bit about the crisis that we have had for a year, the basic lessons we have learned here. If you go back to last spring, the virus was unexpected to us, but the reaction of how the government was acting and how the whole society actually acted, even on a global scale, could be appreciated, said, good or good. We reacted quickly, we declared a state of emergency, we implemented restrictions. Of course, there were mistakes, but others made a lot more of them. There was also, of course, a setback, but it was not as great as we feared, and we actually survived this spring time relatively well. Now, go on. What happened next? What began to happen in the summer and autumn? In fact, I would like to congratulate, here today, a good colleague, Mr Ossinovski, who has been able to analyse this crisis and its measures very clearly and soberly at all stages of this crisis. If the autumn came and the emergency had been cancelled by then, then perhaps the first important mistake was that if the emergency situation is no longer there and we are in an emergency, then the emergency situation should be managed by the law, according to the Emergency Act of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Maybe that should have been the Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme. But apparently there were fears in the government that he might be too authoritarian, not suitable for this, and this law was not respected as such. In fact, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Health Board, all other agencies and ministries, with the exception of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence, have no very real possibility of managing crises at all. It's not at the State Chancellery either, but that's where I'll be. We just went past what we had written into the law, and it actually got us in the fall. In the autumn of November, when the numbers started to grow again, what should we have done? We should have just once again introduced an emergency situation and quite strict restrictions. When I referred to my colleague, Mr Ossinovski, it was precisely what he suggested we should do, but unfortunately we did not do. And the numbers grew again and stayed on quite dangerous plateaus, somewhere around 500. When the new government came, what happened? Then, basically, the lessons that had been gathered were largely lost in a literal sense. Maybe the new government started practically from scratch. And, of course, if you start from scratch like that, the setback that came was very steep. And now that we look, Madam Prime Minister has come to show us his plan, which the State Chancellery had drawn up, a nice thick document, but the goodness of the document is often not very proportional to its thickness. In fact, this vaccination plan, as such, can be recorded on virtually one A4 page. There's nothing so complicated here. But if you compare this situation at all, such as vaccination, I would compare it to a situation where a person is sitting on an airplane and a cabin dehermits... Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U635	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U636	So what do we do? The first, of course, that you're pulling the mask on your head, maybe in this case you have to vaccinate medical personnel. Luckily, they did. Then the most vulnerable groups will be taken up next. So again 80 plus first, then 70 plus, then 60 plus, like this down. But was it done? No, they didn't. The whole situation went into chaos and practically came up with a somewhat conspiracy-like vaccination system that was not adequate at all. And here we are. What have we learned from this crisis? Are all the lessons we have learned, do they in any way reflect the improvements we make? I have to admit, it doesn't make sense. The next government will come and, again in the next crisis, it will essentially patch up the same mistakes and learn lessons from scratch. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U637	Mart Helme, is it procedural?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U638	Since my name was mentioned, I'm taking the opportunity to reply. First of all, I thank Leo Kunna for my positive mention, which often does not happen in this Chamber, due to political jealousy. But I would like to assure you that, indeed, this procedural confusion, and this kind of misunderstanding of the agenda, is precisely because of what Leo Kunnas mentioned: bad leadership. And this bad leadership has arrived, as I said in my speech, in our committees, in the road roll tactics of the committees. You could say it's double cheap. If you want to process it quickly, do it dirtyly, you're gonna go to the reef, and right now, this whole thing's been running nicely on the rocks. So I will complement Leo Kunnas's speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U639	Ladies and gentlemen, if there is a request for an answer, press the "Word" key. I think that's what Jevgeni Ossinovski has done, but first I have to ask Tarmo Kruusimägi if he has a procedure. Mr. Kruusimäe, please, do you have a procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U640	[[Remote connection]] Yeah, good vice president, I really do have a procedure. I do not understand why the Board of the Riigikogu has somehow taken the wish for this free microphone [to come] as a joke. You think only Kalle Grünthal has the right to use a free microphone. I also had a procedural question today, where I just announced that I wanted to perform my free microphone in my office with background music and cheerleaders. Now I've had to send the cheerleaders home, okay, there's still a way to shoot the music, but I can see that there's no way to use a free microphone today. Can I go where? Because the urge is so great. The karaoke bars are closed, too. What does the Vice-President of the Riigikogu recommend?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U641	Thank you, Mr. Kruusimäe! We got your point. Today we are going to go on the agenda until 24 and if there is no free microphone time, then there will be a next Monday if there is time. Please, Mr. Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U642	Thank you. Over. I would like to thank Leo Kunna for those good words. Indeed, Mr Kunnas and I have discussed at various stages of this crisis how the government has taken decisions and what decisions have not been taken. In addition to this analysis, I would just like to add to what Mr Kunnas presented. Of course, the truth is that the proposal for full compensation for the first day of illness as one of the antivirus measures was already proposed by the Socialists last autumn. And this is one of those proposals that, regrettably, was not supported by the EKRE government. Mart Helme from here on the remote said it was a pure Communist bill when we came up with this proposal. It certainly also has a regrettable impact on the fact that the EKRE did not support this proposal. Perhaps we would have been legitimized by today if we had reached this decision together during the previous government, which unfortunately did not happen. However, it must be acknowledged that in recent weeks we have seen that even the EKRE Group has realised that it is reasonable and even necessary to compensate 100% of the first day for sick leave. And as a result, the fact that we are unable today to even vote on this proposal within the framework of this draft is indeed a scandalous story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U643	I did not hear Mr Grünthal's name in this speech, and now I give the floor to the Anti Polish forest, with whom we lost contact. Mr. Grünthal, do you have a procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U644	I have a procedural question, Mr President. Mr Kruusimäe specifically mentioned my name.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U645	Mr Kruusimäe did not have a speech in the round of negotiations, so you cannot be given the floor now. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U646	[[Remote connection]] ... to talk about the abolition and limitation of fundamental rights, which are primarily related to hate speech, or, even worse, to the draft hate speech. [[The connection's breaking up.]] ... political parliamentary culture has slipped in recent years. Since everyone has their own parliamentary memory, it is not necessary to look very far to remind us that we are in a situation where we really need to start amending the Rules of Procedure Act. [We must change] also in matters that should remain within the normal customs, normal customs, such as the fact that the Riigikogu does not come to the Riigikogu with a sweatshirt that says "The word is free," the Riigikogu does not go with a sweatshirt that says "Deep State" or "Deep State," no matter what. You have to start writing these rules somewhere in the Rules of Procedure. Because the use of bangs in front of the Riigikogu is going to where do we go, when will even bigger pyrotechnics be used? So we are just getting to the restriction of fundamental rights, but we should also start by bringing back the simplest customs. What else has caused me concern is that the foundations of democracy have been attacked long before the hate speech law, long before the drafts we now have on the table, including the attempt to suppress the most important democratic right alongside the elections, that is, the right to a referendum. And finally, this most democratic and important right failed. So we were in bad shape a long time ago. ... [[The connection's breaking up.]] What, then, can we do about it? The first rule is, however, that we read our constitution with a clear eye on which fundamental rights we actually own and where the list of fundamental rights has ever started. One of the most important things is freedom of expression. And if we are about to start completely arbitraryly restricting it, especially to silence political opponents, what legislation are we talking about? Legislation, which goes directly to the Constitution, is not even a smudge or haste in one of the committees, we are going to the most important catalogue of fundamental rights, the list. It awaits us at the very nearest moment, and it is only the pre-waves that are taking place in the committees. They're pre-waves. So I can see that the problem is instinctively in the air. Perhaps not everyone is able to express their concerns precisely, even those who go before Parliament to protest, but they are intuitively feeling that they are missing out on something. And they are right, those who feel that their rights will be restricted, and that will really exist. Read the hate speech law, read the Euro Directive. In fact, it is fundamental rights that are being pursued. That is why we need very serious discussions. And I see that today, too, very serious keywords have actually been said. Going after fundamental rights is one of the most dangerous things. And in any case, I also note that those who initiate it may get bitten by themselves. It's not that innocent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U647	Ladies and gentlemen, In order to avoid confusion, both in this hall and in the viewers of the web, we are processing the Health Services Organisation Act and related other laws. Peter Ernits, do you have a procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U648	Yes, good manager! Mr Poolamits here said that he cannot express his concern. I have a problem. Since the rooster is about to start crowing, which means that at 12 o'clock our working day will end, and it has been mentioned earlier that the enquiries will move forward to tomorrow, but the free microphone will not shift, my question is what will become of colleagues from Breivel, Cook, especially Andres Metsoja. Will their calls shift to tomorrow, or will they go out as soon as the rooster crows?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U649	Thanks for asking. There's still time for rooster's passion. At 12:00 we finish today's agenda and tomorrow at 10:00 we start where we left off today. Alar Laneman. Imre Sooäär, please! It's a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U650	[[Remote connection]] Yeah. Thank you, good manager. Honourable Riigikogu! Very rarely do we have the same question on our lips with our good colleague, Peter Ernits, but I would like to clarify the same question in the second key. I have concerns about Andres Metsoja, whether his question will now be on the air tomorrow morning as the fourth, or whether he will have to participate in the round of quick fingers to put his question back in. Is that all that's going to be tonight... Since the Riigikogu is faced with a historic decision or situation, the Monday session has never passed over Tuesday, it is the first time. So, what happens if the line continues or we start over?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U651	Thank you. No need to worry, let's note it, let's pick up tomorrow where we left off today. I hope we can move on, that Evgeny Ossinovski doesn't have a very [long] question, let's try quickly, then Alar Laneman can still talk today. Jevgeni Ossinovski.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U652	Thank you, Mr President. My question is motivated by the speech made by my colleague in the Polish forest. Could the President remind a Member of this House of the fact that the procedure in Parliament's committee was being violated, wasn't the same person the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs when the rules of procedure were rudely overridden in the process of processing another draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U653	Your observations are quite true. Alar Laneman, it's your turn.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-12_U654	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Today's debate is instructive in quite a number of ways. First of all, if you want to understand a person's nature, give him power. It seems that the same applies to collectives, teams and especially to structures that have a certain hierarchical principle in which the driver's word, the driver's decision, has a high weight. It seems that this also applies to the coalition's activities. There would be no surprise or harm in itself, but today there have been two major problems. They are fundamental, and I would say that there are threats. Firstly, if we start to break the good practice of lawmaking and do not respect the principles of democracy, this path could lead to destruction. And restricting the rights of the opposition, crossing the road, is clearly not a good way. In addition, this essence of the first day of illness is of paramount importance. We know the concept of superdistributor. One day is enough for a sick person, especially if he's in a working collective with a lot of people. The second, I would say even more serious in practical terms, is that we heard from the Prime Minister about the strategic approach of the government, which I very much liked, I believe in cooperation, and that a joint effort is particularly important in the crisis. What does the Prime Minister say? Since there is joint action, everyone's contribution is important, we will solve the crisis from the bottom and all such thoughts. It's the only way. However, unfortunately, this will not be confirmed if we look at the coalition's activities and what has taken place in the framework of this draft today. For me, this is worrying in the sense that we are experiencing a rather slow crisis. But what if the attitudes of this crisis are passed on when we are experiencing a more serious and faster crisis, such as a security policy or, God forbid, a military one. If we look at what is happening in the world and at the same time is happening on our streets, then we should all remember that a weak society inside is an easy prey for the enemy. To my good colleague, Mr Lotman, I would like to bow down for a very enjoyable and very wise speech and to say to Mr Ernitsa that I did not remember the bronze night from his descriptions of these special units and especially the police dogs. I remembered some other keywords, Lihula, and some phrase from an earlier past that I'm not going to repeat. I wish us all the wisdom that this crisis will teach us something and that we will act according to what we say and remember that cooperation is important. Good luck to all of us! Thank you.
