ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Monday session of the 3rd working week of the V plenary session. As usual, the first is the handing over of drafts and enquiries. I would like to ask Mrs Heili Tõnisson, representative of the Government of the Republic, to speak here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U2	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic of Estonia initiates the draft Act on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Moldova. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Social Affairs in the proceedings of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U3	Thank you. Indrek Saar, this is the chair, please! I'm sorry! There's a hand up there, let's take some... Is there a procedural question, Kalle Grünthal? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U4	I'm really sorry to interrupt you, but there's really nothing to hear back here. Can we get some more sound?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U5	Yeah, I'll ask the technician to turn on the sound, and I'll keep the microphone closer. Please, Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, The events that have been unraveled in recent days place an obligation on all of us to give maximum of ourselves in order to restore the credibility of our policies. Thus, the Social Democrats propose the Riigikogu's decision to "Constitution of the Riigikogu Committee of Inquiry to investigate the feasibility, effectiveness and possible corruption in the implementation of the measures in connection with the crisis related to the spread of COVID-19 disease and the ensuing emergency situation." As always, the Commission will also have a deadline, which could be the end of the spring session of 2022 at the latest. Of course, it can be discussed in the Riigikogu whether this deadline could be earlier or later. What is important is that the Riigikogu, for its part, does everything to ensure that the doubts raised in the division of crisis measures caused by the COVID-19 virus receive a comprehensive response and that the Riigikogu, within the framework of its parliamentary supervision, gives a clear signal that there can be no place for such possible political corruption. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U7	Thank you. I have adopted two drafts on behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu and the Management Board decides on their future procedure in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Now we're conducting a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U8	99 members of the Riigikogu are present, there is no 2. Can you hear better in the back now? It is, isn't it? Good. Thank you. We will go to the clarification and approval of today's agenda and this week's agenda. The authors of the inquiry withdrew Question No 46 addressed to Minister for the Environment, Rain Epler, which was scheduled for today's first item on the agenda, so this item is not on today's agenda. By decision No 689 of 14 January, the President of the Republic appointed Kaja Kallas as prime minister candidate and instructed him to form the Government of the Republic. According to § 89 of the Constitution, the prime minister candidate will present a report to the Riigikogu on the foundations of the future government. The Prime Minister's candidate has expressed his wish to make a presentation to the Riigikogu at today's session. Pursuant to § 56 (1) (1) (1) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu Act, I have added to the agenda of today's sitting to the candidate Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, appointed by the President of the Republic, in order to decide whether to establish the Government of the Republic. The Committee on Culture has proposed to remove the first and second item on the agenda of the Wednesday session of this working week, the Estonian Language Development Plan 2021 to 2035 and the Youth Development Plan 2021 to 2035. Together with these amendments, I shall vote on the approval of the agenda for the third working week of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U9	There are 88 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U10	Now we go to the only item on the agenda today. This is giving Prime Minister candidate Kaja Kallas the power to form a government. I would like to ask for Prime Minister Kaja Kallas as a waitress in this chair. His presentation lasts 20 minutes, after which all members of the Riigikogu may ask up to two oral questions, the length of which is one minute, and no negotiations will be held. The final vote will then come. Please, Kaja Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U11	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I'm standing here...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U12	Sorry, I'm interrupting! Looks like Riho Breivel has a procedural question. No, it's not. Thank you. Sorry to interrupt. Now Ernitsa's procedural question disappeared, but does anyone else have a wish? I'd like you to give me a hand. No, it's not. Please, Kaja Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U13	Thank you. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I stand before you on this floor for the second time as a candidate for Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia. I'm two years older and more experienced, but even more so in this two year period, the world has changed. Estonia has also become more sullen, more withdrawn. But it is not just COVID-19, which has had a devastating effect on people's well-being and feeling. It is a virus of global evil that had already begun to weaken the sense of unity and cooperation between nations and within nations before the Coron. But if there is no cooperation, there will soon be no work. And if there is no job that brings bread to the table, then there is no decent life. For me, there's no choice what to do. I want to do my utmost to make it good for people to live in Estonia, good to work, good to learn, good to raise children, good to enjoy our beautiful nature. I want to see Estonia smiling again, not a brow scalding and a fist pulling into the corner in my pocket. I want to see Estonia, which is for the new ideas and interesting opinions of the municipality, Estonia, which is moving into the future with a bold, broad and smart look. Yes, it is COVID-19, which is now a priority for all governments. A health crisis. Even the most closed countries have not escaped the deadly virus. The health crisis has had a painful impact on the economy and, therefore, on society as a whole, also in Estonia. And this is where our challenges begin. The second wave of COVID-19 is the first thing the new government will deal with. The latest infection rates are stabilising, but the risk has not gone away. If you support me, the government crisis committee and the science council will meet tomorrow. Our goal is to keep Estonia as open as possible so that people can work, children can go to school and economic activity will continue. On the other hand, it is clear that, in order to overcome the crisis, we must get the spread of the virus under adequate control. The government is like a ropewalker above the abyss who has to keep an eye on the balance. By leaning on one side, we lose control of the virus, and in this case, it will be like in a neighbouring country where the number of deaths exceeds the normal rate. Tilted to the other side, people lose their jobs, grows in society... [[Coughs.]] I'm sorry! ...the number of invisible victims. By balancing this thin rope, we need to move forward to get across the ravine back to normal. In order for us to open up society without losing lives and risk the collapse of the medical system, scientists say there is only one way. This is the vaccination of a critical number of Estonian people. That is why we will make the organisation of vaccination the government's most important task for the next few months, involve the most capable experts and allocate funds to this end. We need to negotiate both at European level and with vaccine manufacturers in order to speed up the procurement and vaccination of vaccine doses. According to current data, each person should know when the order of vaccination will reach him. Vaccination is voluntary in Estonia, yet I have a request for all people in Estonia: if your doctor recommends vaccination, please do so. As Arnold Schwarzenegger said, if your house is on fire, call the fire department, not start looking on the Internet for answers how to put out the fire. We trust Estonian doctors and the medical system; they really do a good job. We will then also trust them with regard to vaccination. I would also like to congratulate the previous government for its action in resolving the crisis. Yes, there are many things that we would have done differently and which we drew attention to when we were in the opposition, but in the big picture, Estonia has gone the right way. I think that by today, all political forces have realised that we are being led out of this crisis, not by political virologists, but by real scientists. We must analyse with them what Estonia could have done differently and better. In the present situation, hindsight is also of great value. The question of why Estonia has nearly ten times higher infection rates than Finland requires an answer. I would also like to thank all the people of Estonia who have made many sacrifices for the health of their fellow citizens, but I also understand those who are tired of the long-term crisis. It is possible that the intense imposition of the subject of the marriage referendum, which in no way helped to solve the health crisis, also reduced society's sense of danger and the necessary attention to the virus. I very much hope that we can put ourselves back together, last a few more months and then return to a normal life. Ladies and gentlemen, The second crisis we have to deal with is a crisis of values. When we stood up for Estonia's independence, we had one clear goal. Similarly, one clear goal was to restore our independence. However, when freedom and independence were won, it became clear that we have completely different ideas about how social life should be organised. But that's what's right in a normal democratic country. Politics is an argument about how we organise our lives in society and how we share resources. But why do we have to insult another person by expressing our views? Why do we have so much hatred for each other? Where has dignity gone? We want or we don't, we're connected to the world. Even viciousness is cross-border. The hope of a more empathetic recovery will be given back to the United States by a sworn new president, Joe Biden. I quote: "There is no peace without unity, but bitterness and rage. " For Estonia, too, it has been thought that we are a divided nation. Is that right? Coalitions may break down, but that doesn't mean society is broken. Yeah, there's a risk of splitting up. Yes, there are politicians who, by amplifying sensitive issues, try to turn people against one another, all to cut political self-interest from blind anger. However, Estonian society is not divided into two hostile camps. And I hope that never happens. Most Estonians continue to agree on matters that are really important for the survival of the Estonian state and nation, whether belonging to the European Union or not. Separatists do not have a weight in Estonia; they do not have a position to speak on behalf of the people. The worst thing a member of one government can do to Estonia is provoke and escalate conflicts. I'm sure the new cabinet won't do that. We do not share society on the principle of 'we' and 'they'. They're our people, too. We are not going to fight Ümera's battle against the Estonian people. It would be worthwhile to have such a battle, because even if cooperation with a politician from one party or another is difficult or even impossible, the government cannot be careless of any group of residents. It's time to give up the idea that the winner will take everything and the loser will have nothing. Good thoughts about promoting life in Estonia cannot come exclusively from government and coalition. The opposition has also received a mandate from the people. We need to learn to listen to each other. There is also a debate, but I believe that we can do this by respecting each other and that generosity will continue for both the coalition and the opposition. Childhood doesn't make a small country big. Good listeners! The third crisis we are in is the deepening economic crisis and the ensuing mental health crisis. People are excited and scared. Every day we see sick people's numbers, which are many times bigger than in the spring. We are at a disadvantage compared to spring because people's resistance to the virus is directly dependent on their mental health, their well-being. Many people have lost their jobs and many live in fear of losing their jobs. People's mental health is under increasing pressure because we need communication and attention, but we lack it. As a mother, I was very painful to hear that last year 14 children took their own lives. This shouldn't have happened. These children could have been helped. We therefore consider it essential, without losing time, to adopt amendments to the law on psychiatric assistance which would avoid this in the future. We will also create a network of mental health to detect and provide assistance in the early stages of mental health problems. All people want to feel like full members of society. As psychologists say, the feeling of belonging is one of the foundations of well-being. But the job is also necessary simply to feed the family. The only thing that takes away people's fear of losing their jobs is knowing that the job doesn't go away. This is why the new government is making efforts to keep the economy running as much as possible and to re-launch the restricted sectors. European Union subsidies are helpful here, but we must use them very wisely. Spending money cannot be an end in itself. We must fight for free movement of people, goods and services once again, for investments to be made in Estonia and for existing companies to see the possibility of expanding their activities here. We must restore Estonia's good reputation as a business-friendly country. This crisis has given us the opportunity to organise our work more flexibly and the laws should also accompany it. Infrastructure must also accompany the need for remote work. Unfortunately, working in remote places in Estonia is hampered by poor Internet connection. After all, it is not just a question of employment; it is a matter of basic living conditions. This is why we invest European Union money to build high-speed internet connections in all parts of Estonia. I am of the opinion that long-term state intervention hampers economic development. Unfortunately, this must be done in the short term to restore the economy. However, the distribution of public money for grants must stop as soon as possible, so as not to stifle private initiative and competition. And what is particularly important: the distribution of public money must be clear and transparent without exceptions. This brings me to the fourth crisis we have encountered and, unfortunately, does not allow this coalition to begin with a clean apron. We're talking about a corruption crisis. I am a lawyer in my profession, and my worldview and beliefs relate to the belief in the rule of law. That's why I'm so passionate about this. The agreed rules must be respected. Decisions made with the help of secret funds must not be made in the rule of law. If given up in this area, it would destroy not only the credibility of one party or government, but the credibility of the whole country in the eyes of its citizens. In recent days, several colleagues have boasted about corruption with their zero tolerance. In practice, this has unfortunately meant reducing the risk of corruption. The new government wants to be more consistent. At the same time, I believe that the rules governing the financing of political parties or the work of Parliament itself should be established on a cross-party basis or at least with the support of a qualified majority. Anton Hansen Tammsaare, the most quoted author of Estonian politicians, has said in the early days of the Republic: "Democracy needs self-limitation, self-control and duty to a much greater extent than autocracy. That's what makes this order difficult. Because there are many people who want to limit their own desires and actions? No, it's all over the place. And where are those who want to tame and rule themselves? Everyone is shoving the clogged feet to tame and rule others. Instead of self - obligation, everyone would be happy to oblige others." Good ambassadors! The fifth crisis, which hampers Estonia's development, is the crisis of Estonia's international reputation. It's not someone's malicious fiction or imagination. People who represent our country abroad have experienced this on a daily basis in recent years. By the way, information about the fall of this government had hardly left Estonia when I began receiving messages from the leaders of our allies that Estonia was back. The greatest challenges facing the incoming government are to restore trust in allies. Estonia has the strength to rise again from its borders to a country that is valued for its openness and innovative technology policy. We want to live in a future-looking country that takes account of Europe and the world at large. After all, this was also our common goal when we gained our independence and when we regained our independence: to remain Estonians, but also to be Europeans. The sixth crisis is a crisis of truth. We live in an age where lies spread quickly and far away. Winston Churchill said during World War II that the lie is halfway around the world before the truth of the pants gets on. In today's information society, it is easier to publish lies over and over again, and it is almost impossible to prevent them from spreading. The lies that serve the purpose of fear have already flooded the intentions of the newly appointed government. Wrong about the rise in taxes, the mass influx of immigrants, national homosexuality, etc. People don't know what to believe anymore. People don't know what to believe anymore. This, in turn, undermines the credibility of decisions in the eyes of the people. That is why we are committed to involving scientists and experts in all areas. In the same way, however, the government must be open and convincing in explaining its decisions. We are in a crisis situation, but if we act wisely, we can turn the crisis into our future fertilizer. The crisis allows us to contribute more to the digital state of Estonia and to facilitate communication between people and companies with the state. The crisis is also the right time to make our industry cleaner and greener. Smarter jobs provide an opportunity to pay people more wages. We are paying particular attention to Ida-Viru County, where investments that require the skills of people who live there must be included. To realise all of this, money is needed. But with money, it's complicated in the state budget, to put it mildly. We cannot survive indefinitely, which is why achieving a profit-to-cost balance becomes an inevitable obligation at some point. We understand that this cannot happen overnight. And now for the end. What is my important advantage over my predecessor, Jüri Ratas? No, it's not that I'm a woman or that half the ministers in the government are women. My advantage is that I have a better coalition partner. It is likely that I will have more time and energy to devote myself to serving the country. I know that this is not only a great honour, but also a great responsibility and trust that the Prime Minister must be worthy of. I know that the Prime Minister's appointment is not yet an achievement. This will only give me the opportunity to prove that the government that I am running for can hold and promote the Estonian state in the best possible way. I'll do my best. Estonia is coming back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U14	Mr Prime Minister, you also have a number of questions. First, Peter Ernits asks. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U15	Good manager! Good Echo! Yes, Estonia will come back, but at what price? I am not going to ask you that you have said that the leader of the Centre Party could betray Estonia. But I quote to you your wise father's address to the party on March 5, 2003. I am not going to read everything, but he says this: "Possible coalition partners, however, must consider that by making a government alliance, they have automatically taken up the defence of the Centre Party. Even if they wanted to protect, they may not continue to do so, but in any case this process is beginning to seriously disturb the entire work of the government coalition. " And your wise father suggested 17 or now 18 years ago that we do a coalition with Res Publica because there are too many troubles. And my question: you commended your coalition partner now, but why didn't you just listen to your wise father?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U16	Thank you. I would, of course, quote against the chairman of your party, who wanted to continue in the coalition on 13 January with the very same Centre Party. And he said: "... the change of government does not mean the change of coalitions; they are not automatically linked. After all, our joint role is quite strong, and cooperation has also been within two years of what has been seen from the outside, and it has been operational when sitting around the desktop. So, if you ask me that, I think there is a willingness in our party to try and find a way to continue with this coalition."
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U17	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U18	Thank you. Honourable Prime Minister-designate! I am pleased that the second time, you will be able to form a government with this task and become Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia. It certainly has a symbolic value that five years ago in front of this house, for the first time in Estonia's history, the honor guard said "Madam President" and from tomorrow, Estonian society will get used to the expression "Madam's Prime Minister" as a big and important thing. And I'm glad you're the bearer of such a symbolic role. In addition to this, it is also undoubtedly pleased that the Estonian people will hopefully not have to wake up every morning and worry about what a fool has said to Estonian or foreign media. And that, too, is a significant change. I think that the greatest risk lies in the fact that laurels are still rested, but it is important that the important problems facing Estonian society are actually solved. That's why I'm asking you. What does your government plan in integration policy, specifically on education, for example? Can you enlighten me? Jürgen Ligi said that Estonian-language schools would come, but my colleague from the Centre Party, Mikhail Kõlvart, said that only Estonian-language schools would definitely not come. What, then, was agreed on both this issue and other integration issues?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U19	Yeah, thanks! Indeed, we discussed this for a very long time. One thing we have in common is that it is good for people to live in Estonia and better to cope with Estonian society than they know the Estonian language. In order for Estonian children to receive education in Estonian early on, we have agreed that we will launch an action plan for education in Estonian. What does that mean? This means that we do not quite have to put together this specific action plan, which is still linked to very clear dates, in order to develop the education system in Estonian from kindergarten onwards. If children already attend the Estonian-language kindergarten, they will learn the language at a level that they have no reason to go to Russian-language school, then the transition will be smooth. What else are we gonna do for this? We allocate money so that we can hire teachers in these kindergartens to organise this learning process in Estonian. Quality education must also be ensured in this respect. If the child still does not speak the language at this level, he should not be left behind in other subjects. And we have other points. We have constantly clashed against what is the main problem of integration. This is still the case: people want to learn Estonian to participate better in society, but there are not so many language learning programmes and there are not so many teachers. Language learning in Estonia should not be behind this. I can still look for these detailed points here, but that is what we agreed in principle that we will start with the topic of education in Estonian when drawing up the action plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U20	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Good candidate for Prime Minister! As you mentioned in your answer to the previous question, this is basically how I sense you agreed to come to an agreement. There are certainly many questions that I would like to ask in the light of this coalition agreement, so it is family policy, education in Estonian or the control of corruption. But I would like to come to a subject that I think has been close to your heart and to your party, that is the balance of the budget. That's what we've always talked about, food and food. I also took a look at the coalition agreement, and one thing I noticed was a little surprising: you said, on the one hand, that you are moving towards a budget balance, and that is very reasonable, and the previous coalition did so too, but the devil is in the details and, on the other hand, you mentioned that you are following the rules of the European Union. Estonia is well known to have much stricter rules than the European Union. I know that our partners in the previous coalition have tried to relax these rules a little bit, but we've been holding onto them so far. That's my question. Do you see any relaxations in the near future because they are in line with the European rulebook? Or what steps do you really want to take in order not to relax under the rules of the European Union, to stick to the conservative fiscal policy that has been in Estonia and to move towards balance perhaps even more ambitiously than the previous coalition did?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U22	Thank you. First of all, education in Estonian. We will certainly do more than your coalition did in this regard. We are taking very concrete steps. But as far as the state budget is concerned, this balance point was very important to you too. According to my memory, it was the chairman of your party who wanted to write it into the constitution. The current state of affairs in terms of the state budget is, as I said, complicated, to say the least. And that is why we will not get this budget balance next day. As regards the rules that are tougher in Estonia than in Europe, we have not agreed to relax these rules and we are still trying to achieve this balance step by step. But what needs to be remembered is that we are in the middle of a health crisis and inevitably there is a minus in this budget. But we will make our efforts and hope that you will support us in this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U23	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U24	Good waitress! I was very pleased to hear you say in your report that we should listen more to each other. However, there is a point in the coalition agreement you are introducing: "We are the leaders of the European Union in the fight against misinformation and manipulation of public information space. " Please explain the content of this point! Exactly, who's got the power to define what's wrong? How is the manipulation of the public information space defined? And how do you disprove these claims that this point can be used to close your mouths of political or world-view opponents?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U25	Thank you. This point is certainly not intended to be used to close the mouth of world-view competitors. Yeah, that's very complicated. Like I said, lies spread very quickly. But how can we cope with this if we actually have an information society? What you can do is check the facts. Perhaps it should also be given a more formal form. If people, as I said, doubt what is truth or what is wrong, there would be some source on which they can test this truth. But it's complicated. I admit it's very complicated. But I also admit that there is a problem. So I think it is important that we are at the table where these issues are discussed and we know that these issues are being discussed in Europe, and that we are taking part in these discussions precisely because we actually have a very strong digital society platform.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U26	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U27	Thank you, good manager. Mr Kaja Kallas, the Prime Minister's candidate! I'm really glad you can form a government, and I'm even better at how you've done it. Inequality does not diminish by itself, but requires exemplary and targeted action. It's very important. My question is about equality policy. Unlike the coalition agreement of the previous government, yours actually includes a point on gender equality, the reduction of discrimination and equal treatment. What else do you think the government should do to improve gender equality? Don't organisations dealing with human rights, including the protection of minorities and the promotion of gender equality have to worry about their continued funding?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U28	Thank you. I'll start back there. In fact, we will all discuss these financing issues when we put the country's budget strategy in place. But I think that if these associations comply with the rules laid down for the distribution of money, I do not see any reason to discriminate against anyone for that. When it comes to gender equality, I think it actually starts with us noticing it at all, i.e. whether we plan to take into account that there really is, I don't know, girls-boys-men-women have different interests, or we don't. By the way, we had a very thorough debate in the coalition negotiations on sports fields, namely what girls do on the field and what boys do. Such sports facilities should take account of both interests. Girls may not like to play so much football, but they'd like to do some other sport. Of course, I know that girls' football is a very developing area, but I just gave this example that differences need to be noticed and taken into account in any decision-making process. I think that's where it all starts.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U29	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U30	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good candidate for Prime Minister! On 18 January, you introduced coalition agreements in the field of culture. There you pointed out that you were following the example of a green turn. There are steps in the plan that make this area greener, and the aim is to reduce the footprint. Please specify and name the specific activities in which such a green turn will take place in the field of culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U31	Thank you. That's a good question! These are actually very specific, but small steps. If we take theatres and performances, for example, we have to think about whether the playbooks have to be printed on paper. Or in establishments where there are not reusable dishes, but cardboard containers, etc., such circulation can also be created. Organisations operating in the cultural field should also be directed towards paying attention to all that is involved in their activities. Yeah, there's no one big thing like that, but there's actually a lot of small things you can think of.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U32	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister-designate! If a person commits one crime and doesn't do it again, it's an isolated incident. If a person commits more than one crime, you as a lawyer know it is called recidivism, or in the language of the people, it is called recidivism. Now you're ready to form a government with a reciprocating organization called the Central Party. Let me ask you a very simple question. As they currently have a suspicion of corruption, I would like to know what you intend to do to eradicate it. I assume that your answer could be point by point, i.e. first, let's do it, second, this, third, this, very briefly. When you start eloquently speaking, you are not prepared for it, and you and the Centre Party may be drawn an equal sign.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U34	Thank you. However, I might say and remind you that, although those were evil words you said about the Centre Party, on 13 January you yourself were ready to continue with the same criminals that you are so violently attacking here in the coalition. I can read you a new quote from your own party chairman, and all this activity could be monitored through the press. But specific points, since you ask. What are we gonna do? First of all, it is certainly a big place that the political councillors of ministers, or rather all the ministers' advisers, should also make declarations of economic interests. Since the advisers are those who communicate very much and agree on a ministerial agenda and direct the Minister's policy, it should be known what their interests are. Secondly, we are adopting guidelines for the prevention of conflicts of interest for ministers, their advisers, senior civil servants. Then we will complement the laws to prevent corruption, adopt an anti-corruption action plan and also strengthen the powers of the Political Financing Monitoring Commission so that they can carry out investigations. Finally, I would like to mention that we are creating an environment for digital co-creation, where it is possible to monitor the transparency of legislation and where some ideas have emerged, how it has developed, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U35	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U36	Thank you. Honourable Prime Minister candidate! I have a suggestion for you to begin with. A number of questions have been asked here about corruption and the Centre Party in the form of a coalition of government and also in the Chamber today. You've gone down this slippery road and answered that others did, too, or others did. I don't think that's a good attitude, especially when we're talking about a new beginning and turning a new page. But that's a suggestion. My more specific question is about the coalition agreement, which is relatively general and where there is usually no answer to specific policies. My question concerns citizenship policy. As we know, the Reform Party has supported the regularisation of double citizenship. The Centre Party has also talked about reducing the chances of obtaining citizenship for the owners of the grey passport. The coalition agreement does not make it very clear what is planned in this area and whether anything is planned. Can you tell me what you have agreed on citizenship policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U37	Thank you. That's a good question! That's what we discussed for a long time. We know what both parties have in terms of citizenship policy. One argument was also made that in the existing coalition citizenship policy has already been relaxed with the consent of the Fatherland and the EKRE, i.e. it is as if already done. But we did not come to an agreement on this. We, yes, really want multi-citizenship, but the Centre Party would like to ease citizenship requirements for citizens with grey passports. The agreement was that we stick to the current citizenship policy, which means that the prerequisite for obtaining citizenship is the Estonian language examination and knowledge of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U38	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Kallas! We were embarrassed to learn through the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that the sokifetish of the members of the Riigikogu Reform Party has not retreated. On our own, we also learned that the refined sexual fantasies of your finer gentlemen are extremely far-reaching. We learned of the idea of leaving NATO and, at the top of all, the desire to return to Mother Russia, as proposed by several ambassadors. Of course, the way they were involved in the definition of marriage remains a secret. But I would like to know if, during the new government, things are still going to be in your party so that everyone can talk, write or, for my sake, draw whatever comes to mind. Or do you expect any subject to remain on the subject and even a minimal intellectual effort?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U40	Thank you. Firstly, we have a democratic party. We really have a lot of opinions and we take them into account. We listen to people, and we argue, I think it is a democratic process. Secondly, all the things that you listed in the first place, I think we should not go into this subject, but if you want to go there, then I will answer, these were all the suggestions to ask the people for an opinion. What have you, who have been very clearly in favour of asking the public for an opinion on issues that are somehow in doubt, against asking for the opinion of the people? We, not one of us since, have made a proposal to do anything; our members proposed to ask people in a referendum. There is no such term in law as the marriage referendum, there is a referendum on the issue of state life. It can be discussed what is an important issue of state life and what is not, but you did not want to have this debate. And I think, in the end, it's a good thing it all fell away.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U41	Kai Rimmel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U42	Thank you. It was only when you thwarted a referendum with obstruction that wanted to ask the people's opinion on traditional marriage. There is only one conclusion to be drawn: you fear the people and the opinion of the people. You're afraid of your people. And in this case, it is only a guideline and an agenda coming from the European Union that matters to you. There were many non-healthy questions in the obstruction, but these questions cannot be described as quite normal questions from your two ministerial candidates, Maris Lauri and Kalle Laanet: "Is the freedom of conscience prohibited in Estonia? " How do you comment on the proposal of the ministers of your future government, and do you think they will work without conscience?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U43	Thank you. I think that there is no point in discussing the decision that has not been taken and the amendments to this draft decision. We have a whole series of drafts here, where the ambassadors are making various amendments, some of which may seem foolish to me, some of which seem foolish to you again. That is why we should discuss and vote on these here. However, there is no point in dealing with any draft that is no longer pending and with amendments to this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U44	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Good candidate for Prime Minister! You've been using the term "state of law" a lot lately, and it's also in the coalition agreement. When you defended Mrs Rosimatolit yesterday and today, you said that if we go to the point where we say, when we throw any doubt into the air, that a person is automatically guilty, it is not the rule of law. For the sake of clarity, I ask how you comment on the verbal fire and conviction from all channels at Marti Kuusik's address. What about the rule of law? Does the rule of law apply to all or only the elected?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U46	Thank you. The rule of law means that we follow the rules that have been agreed upon. As far as Marti Kuusik is concerned, as far as I am concerned, it is still pending, there is no judgment yet. If you put it to comparison, I say that Keit Pentus-Rosimethus was not a criminal matter first and, secondly, a decision has been made in favour of him at all stages of the trial. What I wanted to say is that the court in Estonia is judging. And if the court has said that a person is right, then there is no reason for others to say that no, we do not believe in the courts. In the realm of justice, we have to believe in the court. Coming now to Marti Kuusik, I say that if the court decides that he is not guilty of this matter, I am of the same conviction that no one should in this case still be branded as an offender in any way if he has been declared acquitted by the court at all stages. Where else are we gonna get protection?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U47	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U48	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, congratulations first. After all, you are about to become the first female prime minister in Estonia. As you well know, the Social Democrats have consistently stood for the provision of care that would allow the elderly person to stay in and to cope with their home as long as possible and to receive a nursing home where necessary. We currently have a corresponding draft in the Riigikogu proceedings. If we look at what is included in the coalition agreement on long-term care, it says: "We are analysing alternative financing models (including care insurance) to reduce people's own ownership and increase access to services. " My question is: When will your government plan to espouse what has been done for more than ten years to make a home available to an elderly person for his own pension?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U49	Thank you. A very specific question. We know the state of the state budget, and we know what we have to deal with the maintenance burden. I totally agree with that. So we need to consider the opportunities we have and possible financing models to involve the state and local authorities to cover this burden. But I think that the new Minister for Social Protection will take office and then it will be possible to discuss these ideas with you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U50	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U51	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Honourable Prime Minister-designate! My question, however, is about corruption, although you have tried to refer here several times, as if others do. The coalition of the Reform Party and the Centre Party will indisputably be accompanied by suspicions of corruption. Mr Andrus Ansip, the long-standing chairman of your party, expressed the opinion in Vikerradio that he would have preferred the corruption-free coalition as a first option. Are you and Andrus Ansip's values so different? Do you think it is good for Estonia that you first chose the party that has fallen into the corruption scandal?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U52	Thank you. I, too, would have preferred a coalition free of corruption, but in order to do this coalition, it must be not only the will of one party but also the will of another party. I suggest you put all these questions to your party chairman, Helir-Valdor Seeder, who can answer why he has not seen any cooperation with the Reform Party. We have tried to have a conversation on this subject several times before, but that is not what we wanted from there. Unfortunately, we have coalition governments and it must be the will of all parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U53	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Echo! I am very pleased that exactly one hundred years after the first government took the oath of office before the Riigikogu, Estonia will finally receive the first Prime Minister of Women. I certainly wish you every success in this difficult job. But my question is about teachers' salaries. During the previous, soon leaving government, the teachers' minimum wage was clearly behind the average wage in the country. All this ended with the previous Minister of Education, Mailis Reps, reporting that teachers' salaries would remain frozen for four years at all. I think today hundreds of teachers are watching and listening to us, waiting for a very specific message from the new government to announce that teachers' salaries will not remain frozen for four years, and a clear message, the date on which teachers' salaries will rise again. When?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U55	Thank you. Unfortunately, I have to answer all the financial questions, so that we can provide answers when we discuss the country's budgetary strategy. Because we just don't know yet, we don't even have an economic forecast, and we don't know if it says plus 4% or plus 4%. It's a very complicated situation. Maybe we'll come back to that in March.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U56	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U57	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! First of all, I acknowledge that you have signed up to the Coalition Agreement and, in your speech today, you have also highlighted the need to enable young people to have access to psychiatric assistance. I hope that the position that we are discussing today is that the good ideas that come from the opposition, for example, will not be spared, and it is not important who has the good ideas coming from. I therefore hope that the words will become acts and the draft law on supplementing psychiatric assistance initiated by the Socialists will soon become a law in this Chamber. But what didn't I hear? There was talk about being good to live, good to be young, good to raise children, but I didn't hear anything today in your first speech about getting old and spending my old age safely. Unfortunately, we didn't hear anything about the family caretakers either. Can you comment on that? With Signe Riisalo, I can certainly talk about these things and he is an expert in social protection. But what is your position?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U58	Thank you. First of all, I think that the law on psychiatric assistance needs to move forward quickly, and that will clearly exist with the same draft, which has in fact been supported by organisations in this area. That would solve this problem. I don't see any reason to come up with my bill. Speed is important so that children can get help quickly. Second, I said, good to live. I didn't say, good to be young. I'm already swinging at the border. Where does the limit of youth go? But in any case, we understand that concern. I think that having a full life means that both older people and people who are struggling feel that they are part of society and are noticed. But more concrete plans must indeed be discussed with the Minister. I'm not an expert in every field, and I can't answer in such detail.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U59	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U60	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good candidate for Prime Minister! You've said many times that money matters must be in order. You also said in your opening speech that you are now more experienced and wiser yourself. But yet you have appointed a person to manage the country's finances, whose past is known to be a major corruption scandal and a case of power trading. I don't think there's much wisdom to give the Minister's portfolio to a person who may be nice and educated, but who has remained in the memory of the Estonian people as a person who played KredEx's money in the hands of his tribe. This loan had to be paid by the taxpayer two years ago. You said that Keit Pentus-Rosimannit has not been convicted in court, but on 30 June 2015 the Civil Chamber of the Tallinn Circuit Court decided that a politician, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, was involved in making Autorollo stolen. He was released from compensation for damages amounting to EUR 200000, but here are the words "due to a judicial decision" and therefore resigned from office as Minister of Foreign Affairs at the time, so that there is a judgment as such. Do you admit that, despite the wisdom you have gained over the past two years, this was not a very sensible decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U61	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U62	Thank you. First of all, you've got things very messed up. This is again a good example of how you are actually misleading people, and you might even call it a kind of slander. First of all, as far as power trading is concerned, I don't know he's got any charges, criminal cases. Your own question also referred to the judgment of the Civil Chamber. This means that we have a criminal college and we have a civilian college. The Civilian College is discussing civil disputes, private disputes. You have a claim on me, you bring an action against me, and the court will discuss it. It's a criminal case when the state is prosecuting someone in criminal proceedings under the Penal Code. It didn't exist. As far as I know, Marti Kuusik resigned, didn't he? He has no judgment either, but he has already done so because the demands of a politician are heightened. After that, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus has three more sentences that say he has done nothing wrong. And it must be based on what the court decides once and for all. You can't just rip one thing out.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U63	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U64	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Prime Minister-designate! I see that you are still very strongly behind the fact that the great damage caused by your obstruction to the Riigikogu and also to the Republic of Estonia was the right thing and all the questions were correct. Who will then decide whether they are right or wrong? But still, the problem is up, still, that reputational damage has been. The candidate for the Minister of Defence asked about the withdrawal from NATO, the candidate for the Minister of Rural Affairs for joining Russia. In Russia and Ukraine, this material lives its own life. Not everyone understands that you made a very bad joke about Parliament. How do you intend to cure this foreign policy damage?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U65	Thank you. I understand you guys really want to talk about your plan, but I don't think anyone else wants to talk about it anymore. It's actually gone to snow. I'm just saying that you yourself have challenged NATO. The chairman of your own party says that a plan B is needed.If any MPs say that let the people think, then the answer to the question of state life would be mandatory for the state bodies. Whatever government would come, we know that support for NATO is high. If the answer is no, any government will come, it will not be able to leave NATO. But yes, I don't think there's any point in talking about this particular draft decision anymore, it's over.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U66	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U67	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Good Echo! You began your speech by saying that the people were sullen and withdrawn and asked where dignity had gone. But the dignity of the people will be lost if they take away the opportunities that have been promised. And right now, that promise to the people is that he is the highest authority. The Coalition Agreement, your new Coalition Treaty, does not deal with any words of strengthening and extending the power and decision-making powers of the people. Are you saying that it must be once every four years that we go to the elections that the people have the highest chance of power?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U68	Thank you. We have many opportunities to involve people. But I am a strong advocate of representative democracy. We have people who have been elected to the Riigikogu and those who can also bring their thoughts to the Riigikogu through MPs, i.e. all the people who have chosen members here. I think that a strong Parliament and representative democracy are the meaning of our constitution. But people, of course, can be involved by any means possible. For example, we are meant to create the same environment for co-creation so that people can be better informed and make their proposals. Estonia is such a small country that everyone is exposed to everyone. The distance between the ambassadors and the people is nonexistent.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U69	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U70	Thank you, good manager. Good candidate for Prime Minister! I quote to you: "The only thing that takes away a man's fear of losing his job is the knowledge that the job will remain. " It's a quote from today's date. If I look at your coalition agreement today, you have very specific deadlines when you intend to exit oil shale electricity production and when you intend to stop using oil shale in energy as a whole. You also state in a clear way that you will stop investing in fossil fuels. All these messages have caused people in Ida-Viru County fear of their jobs. Please, can you express your position clearly and explain to both the people of Ida-Viru and to us here how these steps can eliminate people's fears and make them know that there will be a job?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U71	Thank you. The fears that have been written to us were very much related to the fact that there is no known date. We know where the world is going and where Europe is going. We know that oil shale energy is becoming more and more expensive and does not pay off. This means that, in my opinion, it would also be cheating on people when we said no, no, everything goes on the way it was. What are we going to do? In fact, we want to attract investment in Ida-Virumaa in order to create jobs that need people with the same skills. To this end, there is also a European Fair Transition Fund, which has clearly helped regions in Europe that have similar concerns about coal mines. And we have a lot to learn from it. In my opinion, it is also not right for us to constantly give hope that nothing will change and pay for it, although in fact we should take very clear steps to create a new industry and new jobs and to change people's jobs. Yeah, this job doesn't stay that way, but work and bread still stay, just in another industry. We can't just push it any further.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U72	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U73	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! One of the goals of the government that had just been in power was to regulate immigration, because, as a result of the policies of previous governments, we had all the doors and windows open. As a result, 18000 people settled for us in 2019 and left 13,000. About half of those who added to us came from the Eastern Slavic cultural space and the rest mainly from Asia and Africa. If migration like this continued, we would have one city the size of Pärnu, made up of new immigrants, in ten years' time. However, you have claimed that the Aliens Act, which was in the Riigikogu proceedings and which would have regulated migration, will certainly not continue. I am now asking quite sincerely: is it important for your government that the share of Estonians in our country does not fall?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U74	Thank you. It is important to us that people living in Estonia regard Estonia as their home and respect the Estonian language and culture. Who's finally the real Estonian? Who's gonna define it? If your mother or father is of any other nationality, are you a real Estonian or aren't you? But now, coming to this issue of migration, we know that we have sectors in the economy that are struggling with labour shortages, and we know that in this COVID situation we have also seen an increase in unemployment. That is why we have thought of such a flexible solution that additional labour can be involved in those sectors where there is a great shortage of labour, but in those sectors where the people of Estonia are actually and are unemployed, the workforce should be found locally. Of course, Estonia and Estonia are very important to us. In my opinion, the country has two major objectives: one is that Estonian language, culture and people should last; the other is that the Estonian economy should work. So this balance and these decisions must be based on these two major objectives.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U75	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U76	Good Echo! First of all, I wish you heartfelt success and success. The challenges are very high, both in economic and health terms. I hope that a very large number of our colleagues here in the Riigikogu will realise that these are common challenges for all of us and can only be overcome in cooperation. My question concerns the point of the Coalition Agreement, according to which it is planned to analyse alternative financing models in long-term care, and, among other things, the introduction of care insurance. Personally, I think thinking about care insurance is the right way to go. I'm asking you to expand exactly what you can expect in this regard. Does the government have a desire to apply care insurance, and is it likely that this will happen before this government's mandate expires in 2023? But once again, good luck.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U77	Thank you. As I said in my reply to Helmen Hunter, when we are still analysing, that means that I do not yet have a clear answer and a clear plan. But I think all the ideas on this subject are welcome. We will come to these ideas and discuss them. So I don't have, yes, a very specific answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U78	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U79	Mr Prime Minister, first of all, congratulations and success in the new post. It was indeed a pleasure to read in the Coalition Agreement that you intend to do concrete things, as well as the things that the Political Financing Monitoring Commission has recommended to prevent corruption and reduce corruption. There were quite a number of such matters concerning such advisers and regarding funding, but we did not hear anything about the proposals of the ERJK concerning parliamentary parties, political parties and such most critical shortcomings. I would point out, for example, that the law is incomplete and confusing in order to apply high late payment in the form of a coercive instrument in the case of political parties or to respect the state budget support or to require donors to carry out a burden of proof in respect of certain amounts. Does this strengthening of the ICTY also mean resolving these issues?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U80	Thank you. That's all we've been discussing. Since the Centre Party has more contact with it, this discussion revealed that the decisions of the ICTY are already such that the financial penalty is in it. For example, if it is the same as receiving a grant or a donation, it must be tripled. So, actually, there's already this so-called fine measure in there. And in a way, all this fine money goes to the state budget. So I agree with you that it can't be that if you get caught, you give it back and it's like nothing happened. But in reality there are already penalties in reality, so how this practice is and how these decisions have been.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U81	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U82	Dear Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, he has been able to develop all of us in Estonia! In your speech you said very clearly that the economy is one of the important pillars of life in Estonia. There's no doubt there's work inside of it. On the subject of working, you mentioned that it should be possible to do so across Estonia as much as possible, whether or not to be physically present. This same issue of broadband, or data communication, is undoubtedly important. You mentioned that this must go on. I am very pleased about this, because the previous coalitions have also attached great importance to it. But maybe in a few words you could tell me how to proceed. Is there a need to change the legal space, to borrow or to actually choose in combination free public transport versus data availability and its development in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U83	Thank you. The European Union's crisis instruments have a huge amount of money intended to make a digital revolution and also to build such infrastructures. So this money can be used for this. You don't have to take more of a separate loan than you've already taken. It has been estimated that these instruments will allow it to be completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U84	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U85	Thank you! You have stated in the coalition agreement that the competences of the Political Financing Monitoring Committee should be increased. They have made various proposals to quite a number of political parties over the years, but I do not see any concrete action or step in the agreement yet. It's not because the Centre Party is against it, is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U86	Thank you. On the contrary, we have very concrete steps compared to what has not been done for four years. These same GRECO recommendations, which have been on the government table for four years, are going on with them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U87	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U88	Good candidate for Prime Minister! One of the border guard leaders of the Soviet Union has been convinced that when borders disappear, the freedom of the people disappears. That quote was longer. But no country, an independent state, can exist unless there are borders and border guards must, in any case, exist regardless of coalitions and regardless of contracts. One serious issue and a power gap is when border guards do not deal with national defence issues. Those who have studied on the side of the Defence Forces and who have also learned how to guard the border know very well that national defence also needs to be taken to border guard structures to fill this gap. That, I know, is what's going on right now. I also found one sentence in the coalition agreement where you have written that you consider it important to strengthen the governance structure of the PBGB. Would you mind explaining what's meant by this point?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U89	Thank you. I agree with you that the border is the hallmark of the country and must be protected. We can still discuss how to strengthen the border guard. We have had an in-depth discussion on border issues, but the details of this point I must quite frankly clarify with our defence people. But I believe we can certainly do it in the Riigikogu, with you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U90	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U91	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! Between Valga and Valka, the Latvian border guard has been carrying out a check for the third week. The citizen of Valga rural municipality of Estonia must make a permit for crossing the border on the Internet and it is valid for 10 days. From this week onwards, in addition to this authorisation, proof that the corona sample has been carried out and that it is negative must be provided. What is your position: will you let Latvians continue to transport the virus to Estonia, or will you also introduce border controls for Latvians? All food stores on the Estonian side are full of Latvians.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U92	Thank you. Of course, the virus doesn't recognize that limit. The virus is moving across that line, no matter what control we control there. In my opinion, it is unwise to create more bureaucracy if it does not really contribute to the objective. The way it was when the virus began to spread, and people were put on the border to fill out some form that nothing depended on. I think if there are restrictions, like wearing a mask and other rules that hold the virus back, no matter how we communicate, the virus does not know who is an Estonian who is Latvian. And he certainly doesn't know the border either.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U93	Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U94	Good manager! Good candidate for Prime Minister! You have said many beautiful words about the openness of Estonia. But I have the impression that you don't know much about mass immigration and especially its dark side. You didn't know anything when I asked you about Vachabian schoolbooks in Europe. And I don't know if four years in Brussels you were able to go to the Molenbeek district. But my question is bodyistic: did you think Osama bin Laden was a good Muslim?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U95	Thank you. I do not understand how this concerns the formation of the Estonian Government.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U96	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U97	Thank you, Mr President. Good performer! You mentioned at the beginning of your speech that one of the goals of the new government is Estonia, which is open to interesting ideas. Only recently have reform parties presented interesting ideas, which, if passed through parliament, would, among other things, have been open to a referendum on whether Estonia should join Russia and adopt a Russian ruble. In both the Finnish and Russian media, your party's proposals received a lot of attention and seriously discussed the movement of the Russian sphere of influence of the Republic of Estonia. Is the Reform Party planning to move forward with these referendum ideas in government? After all, at least one of the signatories to this proposal takes up the position of minister. Or do you now realize that it was an extremely dangerous and stupid gambling act that you are now trying to distance yourself from?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U98	Thank you. As I said, there is no point in talking about amendments to a draft decision that did not go through.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U99	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Good candidate for Prime Minister! I will return to the issues of finance and budget. Once again, I stress that these are things that are close to my heart. I also assure you here that, if you stand up and you need the support of the Fatherland, we will certainly be ready to work together in every way to move towards these objectives when we talk about budgetary balance when we talk about public finances in order, etc. But I have a question about the budgetary strategy for the four-year country that is currently in force, as they are prepared in the spring of each year. If we look at the agreement signed today on the new coalition, we do not see in it, at least I did not see any significant cuts in it that would help to improve the budgetary position and not any structural reform that would help to improve that position. So I will also ask you about the available resources related to pension reform. I looked, you signaled to society there that they were actually going to increase the current costs. Exceptional pension increases and average pensions are important things for one party or another. But is it not the problem that the costs planned for the coming years do not give you the opportunity to move towards balance? What steps do you really want to take, this is not clear from the coalition agreement at the moment. Give me a heads-up on this, would you?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U101	Thank you. As I said, we will be discussing the country's budgetary strategy in March. Then you can look inside everything and decide what can be done. As regards pensions and the money released in the context of the pension reform, we believe that this money should be channelled into pension-related payments, be it to cover the pension deficit, be it the income tax exemption for the average pension. It must help pensioners. But, of course, all the good ideas you have to get into a better state budget are welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U102	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U103	Of course, congratulations from me too! But I have a series of questions about the coalition agreement. The first question concerns the concept that you are beginning to use: 'cultural accelerator'. I would like to quote: 'We are creating a financing model for cultural institutions in different fields to make development jumps and involve private funding. " What does this term mean? That's the first question. The second question is also linked to one sentence that exists in the coalition agreement: "We are implementing the state reform plan and continuing to implement it by cutting red tape and reducing the general deadlines for administrative procedures. " It is known that you have been working in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs so far, and the corresponding draft has actually already been registered there and is in the process of amendments. Do you have a plan to support it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U104	Thank you. First of all, the cultural accelerator. It's an analogous idea, like a start-up accelerator. On the one hand, investors can give money to implement crazy ideas, they can give impetus. The idea was to do the same for culture: to bring together money and good ideas so that there would also be innovation in culture. As far as state reform is concerned, even when it was discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I said it was obsolete. This is because this project was completed before we had the COVID crisis. What's changed since then? The way we live, work, and communicate has changed. This has not been taken into account at all in the draft. It has not been taken into account that people, especially those who do public work or other office work, can actually work remotely. All these options should be taken into account in order to actually implement this reform of the state and also to achieve cost savings. This is precisely what is meant by modernising, to take into account how life has changed in the meantime.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U105	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U106	Good waitress! I did not get a full answer to my question concerning the so-called fight against misinformation. Please explain! If I've got this right, you want to create some kind of national fact check. Whose competence, then, should be to define what is truth and what is false information? Who do you think are so infallible?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U107	Thank you. It is very difficult to carry out a national fact check. I meant it, and we have also said it, that more researchers should be involved in all areas and based on the data they have collected. Of course, there are some statements that are very difficult to control, but at the same time there are some statements that are very easy to verify, based on science and research. So, of course, this control can't be absolute in any way, but in cases like this, I don't know, I'll give you vaccination, for example, you have to point out what the state of things is, which is the truth, which is wrong. People could tell the difference and know who to trust, what to believe.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U108	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U109	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good candidate for Prime Minister! You always referred to the previous government in connection with the COVID crisis. In particular, in the case of Minister Tanel Kiig in this area, you have made it clear that you are, as if, not at all satisfied with how they have solved this crisis. And you kept saying you had a better plan. Now I would like to know that since the same minister will continue in the same area, whether this better plan will now go into the drawer or whether you have any activities planned to implement this better plan. Why don't you come up with a few specific actions that would be a better plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U110	Thank you. Tomorrow we will have a COVID meeting, in case I get a mandate today and the government can take an oath tomorrow before the Riigikogu and take office. Yeah, we've got a lot of ideas on how to do all this. The main thing now is to organise vaccination. How can we do this in such a way that it is transparent and clear that people know everything we need, how can we make it more effective? All these ideas are there, and tomorrow we will discuss it with the Scientific Advisory Board. The aim is to keep society as open as possible and at the same time limit the spread of the virus. But as I said in the speech, the government has done a great job. At the same time, we disagree on certain issues and we have always pointed out in the opposition what could be done differently. And now we have a chance to develop these things ourselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U111	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U112	Thank you. My second question concerns environmental policy, which I know is, like, close to my heart. Global warming is, in fact, an existential problem for the peoples of the world and for wildlife as we approach it on an evidence-based basis. And when you approach on the basis of evidence, there's really no time to hang around and delay. In this context, could you open why we wait until 2035 with oil shale electricity, for example, instead of making it faster? And maybe two more specific questions concerning the bad environmental decisions of the previous government. What happens to them now? One is oil shale oil factory, which increases Estonia's total emissions by 5%. What does this have to do with global climate policy and its ambitions? And secondly, the irrational burning of the forests in Narva boilers, which is not environmentally friendly in any way. Are these items taken off the table?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U113	Thank you. First of all, of this deadline 2035. I admit that in the debate we had a much more ambitious plan, but it is a compromise between the two coalition parties. Indeed, the production of oil shale electricity could actually be stopped much earlier, but it was a compromise. The second question concerned the oil plant. We agreed that taxpayers' money will no longer be invested in an oil plant or in fossil fuels at all. It is not clear at the moment how much money has already been spent to build this plant. But no more taxpayers' money should be put in it. The third question concerned the burning of forests. We also had a very big argument about that, and I absolutely agree with you. If there is a problem, for example, with the provision of heat for the inhabitants of Narva, I think that we could provide other means or subsidies to solve this problem, rather than approaching it in a senseless way, so as to drive wood into the oven. Of course, everything must be kept in mind: security of supply, the construction of alternative capacities and so on. But yes, if the problem is the heat issue in Narva, let's see if there's an alternative solution. This is definitely not the only one.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U114	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U115	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! You spoke of a crisis of values. We all remember the last two years of yelling at the Centre Party with some pretty indiscriminate words and, as life has shown, yelling for it. "Old Habits Die Hard" is one of Mick Jagger's songs. But today you've been through some sort of inner glow and, figuratively speaking, the ugliest bride of yesterday's village looks like Miss Universe. The Centre Party did not demand a million, Mailis Reps as a minister did not maintain a babysitter at the expense of the taxpayer. No, it wasn't! Forgotten! There is no crisis of values. Since the new government was born rather painlessly, did you involve the Pentus in negotiations with Reps for tactical reasons, assuming that two people of somewhat similar backgrounds would find a common language more easily?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U116	Thank you. I'm probably not gonna compete with you in insulting, but I never said that it's not a problem that these corruption things are not a problem. I never said that. Of course, this is a problem and the Centre Party must deal with it; the Centre Party must explain these matters. That's right. Mailis Reps has resigned because of his accusations, and I acknowledge his decision not to join the government as minister until these issues are resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U117	Kai Rimmel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U118	Thank you, Mr President. Good candidate for Prime Minister! In your speech, you mentioned the noble aims of giving all Estonian citizens a safe life, a home, a job. I would ask what you are saying to the thousands of people in Ida-Virumaa who, in the name of your rapid green turn of ambition, lose their decent work and good income. You are actually mercilessly placing them on a demeaning wheel of social assistance without offering anything in return other than great words and progressive idealism. Today we have heard many times what you are offering there. And then afterwards, you wonder and ask where the anger comes from.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U119	Thank you. We discussed the problems of Ida-Viru County very thoroughly. As I said, the question is that there should be different jobs in this region that need people with the same skills. A fair transition fund is foreseen for this purpose in the European Union. The money from the Fair Transition Fund must be used to ensure that investments are made in the region and that these people have a job so that there is no socio-economic disaster. We know that these steps must be taken. If sooner or later the climate policy and climate situation in Estonia and the world requires such steps to be taken, then I think it is fair to involve these people and think about alternative solutions, not just to tell people that nothing is happening. It happens, but you just have to be ready to replace some jobs with others. This needs to be actively addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U120	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U121	Thank you, Mr President. Good candidate for Prime Minister! I wish you a great deal of strength under the new government! At the same time, we are probably both aware that the fight against corruption and the convincing clear steps taken in this process are critical for the new government. We both know that the big problem is precisely local government governance. The major scandals with the Centre Party relate primarily to local governments, especially the Tallinn city administration. That is why I am asking that there is no word in the coalition agreement about fighting corruption at local government level. Instead, for some reason, you have started bullying politically oriented NGOs. What are the concrete steps to combat corruption at local government level, especially in the city of Tallinn?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U122	Thank you. There are different steps in the Action Plan against Corruption. I think that corruption rules apply at any level. The question is how much competence there is to deal with it and to highlight it. I absolutely agree with you that combating corruption is very important and must be done at all levels. These recommendations also highlight the fight against private sector corruption. If there are no bribers, there can be no bribers. These parties must be dealt with in the collection. But if we come to the Riigikogu with these proposals, we can discuss all of this in greater detail. If there's any good ideas, everyone's welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U123	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U124	Thank you for the floor. I will read the chapter in the coalition agreement "Estonian Rewarded." There's some pretty good keywords here, some of them quite familiar. You are ready to continue supporting rural and agriculture through the various measures of the MES and to encourage the return of people to rural areas. The titles are well-familiar, but I would like to ask, in the light of this, whether the MES measure 'Home to Earth' will remain. It's aimed directly at that. And how do you support the return of people to rural areas? What does it contain? This is actually very important to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U125	Thank you. The Rural Promotion Foundation has made its own decisions and, of course, the coalition agreement does not go so far as to review the various programmes at present. I am of the opinion that if this measure has worked well to bring people back to the country, it could certainly be continued. I think that other measures that are being implemented precisely to make life decent in all regions will also help to move to the country. These ideas are presented here under different points. For example, we are talking about infrastructure, for example, so that there is an Internet in remote parts of Estonia or that it is possible to move there nicely. But yes, if the measure has worked, I see no reason to stop it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U126	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U127	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Honourable Prime Minister-designate! My question concerns both the environment and business. In your coalition agreement, you have set the goal of increasing productivity and research intensity in the timber industry. We deliver a very large amount of paperwood to the Nordic countries every year, and we know that the real added value is being created there, social welfare is being created. Figuratively speaking, we're left with skimmed milk, the cream goes to the Nordic countries. What is your or the government's position on the wood refinery? If this happens to be positive, have you also set any specific deadlines or targets that you want to achieve?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U128	Thank you. I very much agree that the enhancement of wood is important. We have forests and we have to use them in the best possible way. Now, as far as the specific plant is concerned, I am of the opinion that if we want to be a knowledge-based economy, all kinds of research into the construction of plants and other businesses should, in any case, be carried out. But such companies are not set up by the state; this must be the initiative of a private company. But research is most welcome. Finland has a strategy that they export so-called trees and heads, and I think it fits Estonia in exactly the same way. You have to do something better than wood, not just drag it out.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U129	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U130	Thank you. Madame Kallas! I really understand that this debate, which concerns the budgetary perspective and which measures are used in the budget, will rather be the time for the country's budgetary strategy. All right! But there are certainly some issues in this regard that you have already addressed during the coalition agreement, such as those concerning taxation either way. What I am interested in is the position of the new government on the issue of regular land valuation and your position on the issue of VAT differences. For example, an analysis of the distinction between VAT on vegetables is currently underway. And the third question concerns excise policy. Can you give me an overview of what has been going through your desk and what your vision is in the most general sense of these three rights to work?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U131	Thank you. As far as taxation is concerned, given that we are experiencing a health crisis and that the state budget is, as it is, we did not find a consensus on how to make any specific changes. We agreed that there would be a tax truce, i.e. taxes would not be affected in general. We also discussed the problem of regular land valuation. We know that local authorities have this problem and that this should go on. As far as VAT differences are concerned, we are not very willing to support any of our tax differences. And as far as excise policy is concerned, what the previous government has agreed is that certain rates of excise duty will be restored, we do not intend to change at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U132	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U133	Thank you. Good waitress! The subject of children's psychiatric assistance has been through this hall and has already been mentioned today. It's also written into your otherwise scattered framework agreement. Of course, no one has anything against helping our children who are in trouble. Unfortunately, only children have been spoken about this subject, but not half a word has touched on the real reason why children do not receive psychiatric assistance in time and to the extent necessary. There are no other special barriers and restrictions to access the doctor, but it is a sad fact that we do not really have enough psychiatrists, especially those whose services are paid by the health insurance fund. After all, a child who is in trouble cannot get to a private doctor, whether with or without the parent's consent, simply does not have the money to do so. Maybe the new government will finally open its eyes and stop pointing the finger at parents as a basic cause. Perhaps he will stop denigrating parents and acknowledge the fact that in order to solve this problem, more financial resources must actually be devoted to psychiatry in order to enable this service to be provided to many more children in need.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U134	Thank you. First of all, there's no way we're embarrassing parents. Secondly, I fully agree with you that more money needs to be spent on mental health. That is why we have provided in the Coalition Agreement for the creation of a network of mental health. This actually means giving more money to apply school psychologists and to other levels of help for children. So, of course, we need more psychiatrists. But those children who need help now can get to a psychiatrist more quickly if they do not need parental consent.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U135	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U136	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister Kaja Kallas! You're a very talented person, and I think you can do this job, and I want you to have a lot of strength! But why talented? Because while you have answered people's questions with playful ease, you have also posted a post 35 minutes ago that you were giving a speech before the Riigikogu that you are still holding. But my question is about education in Estonian. When you answered Sven, you said that you could certainly do better than the last coalition. I dare say that the Fatherland didn't want it in the previous coalition, that problems need to be found elsewhere. And when you answered some questions, you said you couldn't talk until the new budget strategy was in place. But it is quite clear that the introduction of education in Estonian also requires a lot of money. I couldn't get a lot out of the coalition agreement about the substance, the actual plans in this area. Can I be more specific?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U137	Thank you. It's so nice to have this long-distance hearing! You've got such great kids behind you! First of all, I had the speech written, and there are helpers who put it up when it was delivered. Yeah, the call's been made, I'm answering questions right now. That's one. Secondly, as far as education in Estonian is concerned, as we say, we will come up quickly with this action plan. The Action Plan sets out both the timetable and the financial issues. What does that really mean? Fifty teachers need 1.5 million to be trained and sent to kindergartens. These kindergartens are, if I remember correctly now, I can get the number wrong, about 500, where help is needed. So you can calculate the sum yourself. But indeed, concrete steps are agreed on in this action plan. What is important is that we start in kindergarten and that the will to move forward with it is clearly there. We are not going to make any separate development plans, we are going to take concrete steps. These tasks can be carried out and also monitored.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U138	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U139	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Good candidate for Prime Minister! As a lawyer and lawyer, you are aware that the participation of natural persons convicted of criminal offences in the work of the parliament is prohibited in Estonia. Strangely enough, to say not at the will of the Government of Taavi Rõivas, there is no provision for a party who has committed a crime with such a ban. Although § 48 of the Constitution expressly states that political parties whose activities are contrary to the law on criminal liability are prohibited in Estonia. Good Echo! Are you in favour of bringing the law into line with the constitutional requirement that not only natural persons who committed a crime but also parties who have been convicted of committing a crime should have been prevented from doing so?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U140	Thank you. I hope the fast internet gets to you too. Then it's better to work from a distance. In the meantime, I didn't hear everything, but I understand the question is whether the legal persons who have been convicted of criminal offences should be removed from the Riigikogu. Criminal punishment of legal persons is, in fact, still a matter of ten years. Or there are more years, maybe more already. It wasn't in the Penal Code before. Right now, I don't have the Constitution with me, and I can't look in detail at what it says. And I don't know why you didn't come up with this proposal during your reign. Maybe you can comment on that, Paul. In your time, too, there was a political party in Parliament with which you had a coalition agreement. Perhaps you had these discussions, we have not had a detailed debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U141	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U142	Thank you, Mr President. Good candidate for Prime Minister! I'm quoting your speech again. You said that we do not share society on the principle of 'we and them', they are also our people, and no group of people must be careless of the government. I'm signing these thoughts! Similarly, the Coalition Agreement says that we are standing up for the rights of all the people of Estonia, including minorities. I'll sign it! You also say that you aim to protect the rights of people living in different life models. I would stress that people do not live in models, but it is probably just a glitch in the written text. What's the plan to solve the problem, to solve the situation? You intend to search for a joint section of the Riigikogu. We know that the problem is the lack of implementing legislation on the partnership law. Why don't you take it to government level? Why don't you start a bill on behalf of the government so that the law on cohabitation can be implemented once and for all? Or do we have the same situation that we still have in the next two years, because perhaps we will not find a joint part in the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U143	Thank you. I am also convinced that the legislator expressed its will for the adoption of the Cohabitation Act and that implementing acts are simply what must support this law. The will of the legislator has already been expressed. I therefore believe that implementing legislation on the law on partnership must be done. As far as life models are concerned, perhaps this really is a very bad wording and we will review this wording. But basically this sentence means that we have different families who should have the same rights. The reason why we do not come up with a government-level bill is because we do not have a firm agreement that all the government's votes are behind it. That is why we are looking for this consensus in the Riigikogu. We are also counting on the support of the Social Democrats to make these implementing acts happen. That clear will is there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U144	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good candidate for Prime Minister! I'm looking at the coalition contract. The topic "Green Estonia and Nature." There's one point here that we're reducing the logging pressure on the state forest. And this point goes on. Did you also have some kind of analysis in the debate on this point, some specialist who said that the pressure was too great? And did you reach any numbers, how much felling should be and how much should it be reduced? Or is it just a slogan?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U146	Thank you. Deforestation pressure on the state forest comes from the expectation of a dividend. That's what we meant by that point. RMK should not have such strong pressure to pay a large dividend to the state, so it could cut less. But we didn't talk about specific numbers. As the former Minister for the Environment knows very well, the forestry development plan is shoving and finding this agreement is difficult. But we must strive for that in any case.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U147	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U148	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! It's about what I didn't see in the coalition agreement. Yes, the economy is supported, businesses are supported, but what about those people who are about to end unemployment benefits? The crisis continues and they actually fall on income support. The previous government had a plan to extend this measure or to amend the law so that unemployment benefits could be paid for a longer period of time during a difficult period. The second part of the question concerns unemployment benefits, on the other hand, that self-employed persons and private company managers are not required to pay compulsory insurance premiums and have very serious problems. We are not talking about large companies, we are talking about taxi drivers and beauty servicemen such ordinary people. Is there anything you're going to do to support these people?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U149	Yeah, we were wondering what these options were. Just so fast, I can't find this place. The wording of unemployment insurance is something I have in mind, we discussed it, and it was as if we agreed, but I can't find it right now. In any case, we understand the nature of the problem. We understand that in a situation where we have a crisis, there must also be the necessary support measures. Yes, as regards the benefits for legal persons and members of the management board of private limited liability companies, that is what we have been talking about. I don't know why it hasn't been written here. It is probably once again linked to money, and we are discussing monetary issues with regard to the country's budgetary strategy. Then let's see exactly what these options are.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U150	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U151	Good manager! Good candidate for Prime Minister! I have a question to go on with the previous question. Indeed, yes, behind this Estonian population policy, or also national policy or migration policy, there is no way to remain that we do not know who the Estonian is. The Estonian is still the one who thinks he is Estonian, and this is what we learn from the registers where it is written according to its own definition, while in the case of newborns, the mother tells them of their nationality. And in Estonia, 97% of the nation is correlated with the native language. As we know, the share of Estonians in Estonia has fallen since 2015 and the outgoing government tried to stop this trend. My question to you is once again a very sincere question: how low do you think this figure could go? It would be good if you said a percentage.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U152	Thank you for your question. The one who is and who is not Estonian is still in a great many ways to define the person himself as well. Having lived in Belgium for a while, I know that there are a lot of people who at the same time consider themselves both German and Belgian. If you have two parents, it may well be that you consider yourself both Estonian and Russian. But I don't think that's gonna help us any further. I believe that if a person is an Estonian patriot, we should not begin to determine whether he is a true Estonian or not. They consider Estonia their home and want to live here. I don't know how to give you that percentage. Of course, it is important that Estonian culture and language be preserved. We have a small culture and a small language, we have to protect them in every way. And we can also do it in such a way that people who want to be Estonian patriots come more and more, even if they are not genetically, I don't know, Estonians, if you can say so.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U153	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U154	Raimond Kaljulaid can't get in touch right now. We're asking him to try again. Let's go: Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U155	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I have seen that there is an interesting moment in the cooperation agreement between the two liberal parties for me that more reports will be required from non-profit organisations carrying out the protection of certain interests. You have called them political. There has already been a murmur among civil society and opinion leaders. I myself think that each party should, of course, raise their own broilers, but can you name any non-profit and foundation that would remain under this watchful eye? And the second question: why do you want to increase reporting, this bureaucracy in the third sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U156	Thank you. That's a good question! We are thinking here of the great processes developed in the Riigikogu, where associations have come to the Commission or have sent their opinions, which represent some sector. I will give an example of the debate on the reform of the pharmacy. We have a series of chambers of pharmacists and pharmacists, but we do not know whether there is, for example, one wholesaler behind any such connection, who is trying to represent his interests. And if it has a significant impact on this political process, on the decision that comes, because it seems that there is pressure from this sector, I think it is important to know who is behind one or another non-profit organisation. Of course, we do not know exactly how to do this, but perhaps the requirement that non-profit organisations that participate in the legislative process should make public where their money comes from will help to draw this line. I think that would make the whole legislative process much clearer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U157	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U158	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister-designate! You said your previous profession was a lawyer. And now I'm going to ask you a very simple question. You know the principles of court proceedings, you know that its impartiality is very important. At the same time, the Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court has emphasised that it is not necessary to prove his actual bias or prejudice in order to disqualify a judge, it is sufficient that reasonable doubts arise in this regard. You have presented Kristian Jaani, the prefecture of the present Northern Precinct, as a candidate for your Interior Minister, who has worked closely with Director General Elmar Vaher in his current capacity, after discussing various allegations during criminal proceedings. I'm asking if there may be a potential trade in influence. And can an impartial study be expected? There are grounds for objection. After all, Kristian Jaani has declared that he may be planning to enter the Centre Party in the near future, and maybe he can influence the investigation into the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U159	Thank you. The cases of power trading are being dealt with by investigative bodies and I do not consider it appropriate to comment on such matters. Let the people who have to deal with it handle it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U160	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U161	Good candidate for Prime Minister, I will continue with my questions. My next question relates to integration policy. A little bit of this was discussed by Evgeny Ossinovski, I will continue. My eyes have also seen a coalition agreement in which integration was even mentioned as a separate chapter or as an area. There is no such point in isolation this time, although I think you also understand that the subject is very important and very wide. I looked at the message on integration in other points and found the wording under population and family policy: we offer the Russian-speaking population the instruction of the Estonian language through the state's programme. I really hope there's actually a linguistic error here. We are not only offering Russian, we also have people who have come from, for example, Ukraine and Belarus. All other languages could be taught languages in general. My second question relates to a subject such as the follow-up of teachers. There is a very round wording here, and I would ask you to be more specific. What real steps do you intend to take to improve the difficult situation with regard to the lack of teacher follow-up?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U162	Thank you. Very good comment! Indeed, the idea is that everyone who wants to learn Estonian in Estonia should not be left behind because it cannot be done because there are no programmes or there are no teachers. It has to be dealt with. Very good point! When it comes to teachers' growth, there is no magic wand here. One question is how the teaching profession is valued, and the other is how we train. And the third, of course, is what the teacher's salary is. But, as I said, we come to pay issues when discussing the country's budgetary strategy.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U163	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U164	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister's candidate! It is not the custom, of course, of anyone from the future coalition ambassadors to ask questions to the candidate Prime Minister, but maybe I realized that, although I have been working in this Chamber since 1999, I have today to take the most important and responsible decision at this time. I have two questions for you, one for clarification, the other for later. The question to be specified is this. In response to Mr Ossinovski, you said that if Russian children go to Estonian-language kindergarten and learn language at a level that they have no reason to go to Russian-language school, then the transition will take place. The word "transition" what do you mean by that? What is a transition in your sense? And do you really think that if a child has acquired a kindergarten language, it's enough to learn even in middle school, I'm not talking about high school?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U165	Thank you. The point is that this development takes place organically. After all, a child graduating from kindergarten does not go straight to comprehensive school or upper secondary school. He's still going to first class. And there he can certainly handle the Estonian language he has acquired in kindergarten. And that's where you can evolve. I think that, of course, this action plan must involve the Russian community or the other-language community in order to discuss how to organise it better. Of course, no one wants to hurt any community, but the truth is that in Estonia we can offer quality education in Estonian and we want all Estonian children to receive such education.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U166	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U167	Good manager! Good waitress! I quote again your esteemed father. The beginning of the quote: "In essence, this appointment of President was not an election. This is a real disgrace to democracy in Estonia. 81 people voted, but the choice was actually made by 4 to 5 people. The message for today is: Stay away from the elections, because a great political career can be made without participating in the elections. " My questions to you are these. First: Do you and your beloved father agree that this was a disgrace to Estonian democracy? That Kersti Kaljulaid becoming president. Two: Do you share your beloved father's firm view that direct elections are the only option for him? And the third, most important question. That's not in the coalition agreement, but did you discuss with each other who you're going to make the next president in the fall? To thank you for the birth of the coalition, Jüri Ratas or Mailis Reps, or maybe your father, Siim Kallas, or someone else?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U168	Thank you. First of all, we absolutely agree with you that I have a very wise father. Secondly, as far as the presidential elections are concerned, I agree that this whole procedure for the election of the President could have ended last time with the election of the President in the electoral body. In fact, for a year all the candidates were enlightened, they went to every place in Estonia, and they discussed it all very interesting and meaningful. And then it all kind of collapsed and there was an agreement in the Riigikogu. Now, as regards whether we have agreed in the President, of course we have been discussing the possibility of finding a common candidate who could have broad support. But we haven't agreed on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U169	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U170	Thank you, Mr President. Good candidate for Prime Minister! I admit that this coalition agreement you presented is a disappointment in the sense that there is no clear political programme or political choices that this government intends to make. To be honest, it rather resembles a text prepared by non-political officials. Officials haven't figured out what the political will of the government is, and then they've written something down just in case, something round. I'd like to keep asking you about a lot of points. But here's an example that scrambles and I can ask for it. The text contains a sentence that we carry out state-owned business and property reviews on the basis that where the market operates, the state does not need to be a market participant. It's like a clue that we could privatize or take something to the stock market. My particular question to you is whether you have the political will and the intention of placing or privatising a state-owned company with this government.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U171	Thank you. Yes, it is. That is what we discussed in particular. But why is there no specific names in the treaty? It's just because if you name one, why don't you name the other? And maybe there are more companies that can be privatized. I absolutely believe that if the private sector wants to operate in some area, the state should not compete with force there. So these plans are completely there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U172	Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U173	Good manager! Good candidate! You didn't answer my first question, but I'm gonna try another one now. This concerns foreign policy. What will be the policy of the new government towards our good allies, Hungary and Poland? I know they've been spanked in the ALDE, and in Brussels too.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U174	Thank you. Our foreign policy is based on this principle that we will never be alone again. So we should have as many allies as possible, and therefore foreign policy and defence policy are built on the fact that we have good allies. In any case, both Hungary and Poland are also members of the European Union. They must be constantly negotiated and discussed at the table of the European Union. But if the question is whether we share the direction of the current Polish and Hungarian governments, the answer is that we do not.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U175	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U176	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We know the changes that are planned by ministries, which ministerial positions are being abolished, which ministerial places are being created. But I have a question about foundations. Have there been any discussions and decisions concerning consolidation and the continuation of work in certain foundations, such as KredEx and the Rural Promotion Foundation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U177	Thank you. That's what we discussed, too, but since there are quite a lot of different points that have to be taken into account, we agreed to come back to that. I agree that the structures should be clearer and that everything concerning the distribution of subsidies should be clear and transparent. But there is no concrete agreement on which foundations will remain and which will disappear.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U178	Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U179	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Prime Minister-designate! The Coalition Treaty allows you to stand up for government based on the spirit of our constitution. Why aren't you relying specifically on the Constitution itself? What is the spirit of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U180	Good question, thank you! No, we still rely on the Constitution as all governments rely on it. I think it was maybe the writer's eloquent creative expression. But we still rely on the Constitution and its spirit, of course.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U181	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U182	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! Today, there have been talks of corruption on several occasions and in different keys. I'd like to ask you what kind of assessment you're making of your party partner, Valga Hospital's head of operations. He offered his clubmates a preferred vaccination. Did they offer you one?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U183	This case, in my opinion, is a good indication that we need very clear vaccination arrangements so that such things cannot be done. I thought it was really ugly. I wasn't offered.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U184	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U185	Thank you, Mr President. Good Echo! I would like to clarify the same subject that I asked about earlier: education in Estonian. I may be a little more critical, but I expect you to understand there's a reason. The Reform Party, as an opposition party, was also rightly critical of this issue and acute of both the previous coalition and the Fatherland Party. I may have a different view of coalition talks and a different attitude to them. If the coalition agreement now states what you quoted earlier that you would come up with an action plan, then I have a question that you discussed during the coalition talks. Did you go there with the view you have had before that from 2024 kindergartens should be in Estonian and so on, and then there you reached an understanding with this wording that we can read about in the coalition agreement? It seems to me that, after the coalition agreement, no new initiatives and very sharp changes can be made; it is not real.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U186	Thank you. We, of course, went with this programme, with which we have also gone to the elections with which we have come out before. As you well know, the coalition agreement is always a compromise. Any agreement is always a compromise. But we will certainly do more than the previous government did. That is why the idea is that we start with small steps. If this deadline is something you don't want to say, we'll take small steps so there's no opposition. But I think it is important that we start these steps.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U187	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U188	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good Echo, strength and strength in this important work! I'm glad that Jüri Ratas, Prime Minister of the last day, is a nice guy with whom a lot of things have been done together in this house. And so is you. Thank you for that time. But here's my question. We remember that during the past six months, your office often had serious meetings on a subject that was one of the worst events of the past six months. It's a pension reform. I hope that when you become Prime Minister, you will not only think about a few years ahead of you, but you will think for a longer time about what will happen to all those people who will eventually retire in 20 years' time, how they will cope. I'm reading about the coalition agreement, and you're not planning to reverse the pension reform. So, what are you guys up to?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U189	Thank you. Indeed, this pension reform has also passed through the Supreme Court and the judgments are in the back. People have known it would come, and people also have a legitimate expectation that certain laws will come into force and take their steps. But if you ask what can be done, I think that one thing we all agree on is that we need to find more ways to collect pensions in the future and create them in such a way that the assets that are now being released are also invested back in pensions. Well, for example, so that people can pay for their second pension. We have also discussed that the suspension of pension contributions to the second pillar could be stopped. It's just that we're waiting for these numbers. The point of ending this suspension is that it is now the most expensive loan the state has, because the promise was also to pay off this return. It would therefore be reasonable for these payments to continue. But there are a number of changes or additions that could be made to pension arrangements in the interests of voluntary retirement and also within the framework of the second pillar. We will, of course, come back to this when discussing the country's budgetary strategy, but we will not turn this specific law back to one.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U190	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U191	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, For a year and a half, the problem committee on teaching the Estonian language has been operating here in the Riigikogu. In a year and a half we have come to the conclusion that the preparation of teachers in Estonia has been successfully destroyed since 2014. Russian schools and kindergartens have a huge shortage of teachers. No effective educational material, no methodologies. And that is our general decision, regardless of whether we are in the coalition or in the opposition. This committee has also developed its recommendations. They haven't reached the hall yet, they'll be here at the latest, I hope, in April, if this committee of problems is still alive by then. Are you going to cooperate with the Committee on Problems in the interests of this action plan, or is it going to be as it has been for the last 30 years: that people who practically understand nothing about the problem take decisions that do not help anyone, and not in any sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U192	Thank you. This is definitely a question for the new Minister of Education. I would recommend that the Minister of Education consults the Commission and listens to the proposals you have come up with in order to take all this into account in the action plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U193	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U194	Thank you. In response to Jaak Valge, who was concerned that in ten years' time, we will have a city the size of Pärnu as a result of the current immigration, and Estonians will remain in minority, you said that everyone who is Estonian patriots is Estonians. It's a very slippery road. We have a great many people of Russian nationality who are loyal citizens who speak Estonian, who are also Estonian patriots, but that does not make them Estonians, as do many other people who live here. I would still like to know how far you are willing to go in the dilution and violation of our constitution. The Constitution clearly states that the state of Estonia is designed to preserve the Estonian language, culture and nation. How do these concepts of yours match the spirit of the constitution you mention in the coalition treaty?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U195	Thank you. I would not like to make such a categorization as you did on this issue. I'll just give you an example. My brother's baby's mother is Russian, and when I was in the European Parliament, I said something to my colleagues and said yes, you see, she's Russian. My colleagues asked me why you said that. Why are you saying he's Russian? Is he an Estonian citizen? Yeah! Does he speak Estonian? Yeah! Does he live in Estonia? Yeah! Then why are you saying he's Russian? And indeed, this is not the way it is done in other parts of the world. If a person is a citizen, he or she has exactly the same rights. This categorization that someone is more Estonian than anyone else, even if his cultural background is another... Today, there are children who say that they can be both Estonians and Russians at the same time when they have parents of both nationalities. A mother can be of one nation and a father of another. In my opinion, this categorization will not help the Estonian people in any way. The Estonian people, language and culture must last, I agree. The Russian people who live in Estonia and regard Estonia as their home also contribute to this. There's nothing we can do to push them away.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U196	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U197	Thank you. I understand from your previous answer to me that the Latvians can come here and transport the virus to us. The Latvian border guard, who is between the two cities, does not control the people who come to Estonia. Recently, infection has increased in Valga. Are you in favour of letting the Latvians walk and infect us?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U198	Thank you. I think we need to make an effort to control the spread of the virus. But these efforts must be well thought out, discussed with scientists, so that they can work. That is why I believe that action must be taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U199	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U200	Thank you. Honourable Prime Minister-designate! I don't mean to be hostile, but I was embarrassed to read the coalition agreement. It is clear how it was made: that we put all the beautiful things in, and at the same time we write down such round forms that we cannot get caught anywhere. But then, like, the breeze drenched, and the end of it passed away. For example, when we read the heading 'Education and Science', there are some points about education there, there is zero word for science. It is only said that Estonian-language science must be. This is more of a language development issue. At the same time, we are constantly talking about the scientific basis for consulting scientists. But there's no science. How do you explain that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U201	Thank you. Well, you say it's all beautiful things. I'm gonna tell you right now that not all the beautiful things could have gotten in here, so I'd have wanted to put a lot more beautiful things into the deal. But now the question of science. One very important point about research is that we invest 1% of GDP in R &amp; D. The money problem has been serious. The second point, which is here, concerns doctoral students, the funding of doctoral students. How about more young scientists? But in any case, I think this research funding point is one very important point. I don't know if science can even be done politically like this. I support the fact that science is done by scientists and politics by politicians.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U202	Raimond Kaljulaid, please! [[The room is asked if each one has three questions.]] No, two questions. He couldn't get in touch with the other question. There are still two questions. Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U203	Thank you. In this Chamber, if you have such a question, a good colleague, you can raise your hand and you can ask a procedural question. But first, I would like to say that I, too, am of the opinion that we should not introduce such tables of ethnic purity or racial purity in the 21st century. There can be an Estonian even if there is a star with a roof in its first name, a smokin' sound, and when speaking Estonian with a charm accent. Even then, you can be Estonian. But my question concerns foreign policy. Our new Foreign Minister will have a very important role to play. This certainly concerns our traditional foreign policy objectives, security interests, as well as business diplomacy. The coalition agreement also mentions business diplomacy and the foreign policy strategy that we have in Estonia is seen as a very important direction in the direction of business diplomacy. Have you spoken to the Foreign Minister's candidate Eva-Maria Liimets about this? Is there a job interview with you, if I may say so? Have you also talked about how the government is going to develop business diplomacy?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U204	Thank you. Since the Foreign Minister's candidate was only presented quite recently, I have not been able to have these conversations. He is not in Estonia today either. But as far as business diplomacy is concerned, I agree with you very much: it is very important that the country has the opportunity to open doors to companies that might otherwise remain closed. All countries do it in different ways and we must do it somehow. The field of business diplomacy, or foreign trade, is the competence of the Minister of Foreign Trade and Entrepreneurship. So far, or for quite a few years, this position of minister has not actually been filled with the content, although there are enormous opportunities. I very much hope that the new minister will fill it in. He's got experience in this field, network, every opportunity. I think he's gonna be good at it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U205	Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U206	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable candidate! I've already asked such a joint question the last time, but I would have liked to hear a little bit more about what the spirit of the Constitution is. But there's probably no such thing as ghosts. The candidate for the Minister for Home Affairs has said that he, as Minister, hopes to help the Centre Party in the fight against corruption. What's that supposed to mean? Does he want to help the Centre Party, which is fighting corruption across Estonia, or does he want to help the Centre Party win on this particular Porto Franco issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U207	Thank you. I don't know about this particular quote, but having been in contact with the new Minister of the Interior myself, I'm sure his wish is still to fight corruption in general. Given his current position, I think he is not going to defend the interests of the Centre Party, he is still going to defend the interests of the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U208	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U209	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good candidate for Prime Minister Kaja! We know, or at least we have read in the media, that some of our colleagues are sick today, carrying viral disease. Greetings to all your homes! I've seen that a lot of people I know who are sick seem to be healthy. So the strength and the strength of your homes! But we are still in a health crisis today and the border with Finland is almost closed on Wednesday. Germany has called us a very, very dangerous virus state. In your government, too, Tanel Kiik continues, who has so far been Minister of Health. I'm sure you're here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu where you've been in office for the last day, following the actions of the government. What are the three things you would have done differently?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U210	Thank you. Firstly, this burden has been too great for one minister. Health, work, and social affairs are all on the shoulders of one minister. Under normal circumstances, this might not be so important, but there is now so much to do with health. That's why our proposal is to split this department. Work and health would be on one side and all that would affect social protection and families on the other side. Now, to come to what concerns COVID and your questions, which should be done more precisely, tomorrow we will have a meeting on this issue in Finland, for example. We can discuss this. But what can be done? One thing is certainly that the vaccination plan should be clearer and clearer. That's what we can do. Secondly, if possible, you could try to obtain more vaccines by using social networks at European and global level. Such help is certainly needed by the Minister of Health. But specific plans, I guess you can talk about them in Question Time on Wednesday. Then we'll come back to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U211	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U212	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister Kaja! First of all, I am very pleased that we have reached this point and that Estonia should have a new government now. It gives you hope. Since your coalition agreement, as you yourself have explained, is inevitably general in some respects, I am asking you about the general principles that you are declaring there at the beginning. It says that you consider it important to reduce social, economic and regional inequalities and to promote the health and well-being of every person. As a Social Democrat, this is a very sympathetic principle for me, which you declare, but since you are not planning to make any changes in taxes, for example, which would be one of the simplest ways of reducing inequality, perhaps you would describe what your vision of what can be done. I think this is one of the great challenges facing your soon-to-be government. How can we make sure that the impact of this scratch does not roll on the shoulders of the weakest?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U213	Thank you, very good question! In addition, I would say how to make sure that this crisis does not increase inequalities in certain areas. I will give an example of education. We know that children develop in a similar way at school, but inequality arises in school holidays. We now have a situation where children are forced to stay away from homes and schools. The question is that we do not get worse in educational inequality because of it, and therefore also in social inequality. Of course, I don't have one solution to say to you in one sentence, but I think we'll keep this in mind for all the issues and consider these places. I think it's important. Does this issue of regional inequality just mean that it can be solved by means of associations, by channelling certain funds to certain areas? This is where I'm talking about Ida-Virumaa. There are many of these possible instruments, but how can they be used in such a way that they actually benefit from it? This is now a matter that needs to be resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U214	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U215	Thank you. It is still pretty crazy to call people of other nationalities Estonians. Let the Russians remain Russians, Finns remain Finns. We have almost 200 different nationalities that live here in Estonia, so let them keep their nation. In the Russian era, during the occupation, this fusion took place, this should not be the goal of the government today. But you have recently tabled a series of proposals against constitutional and human rights. And don't tell me it's not worth talking about, it's a joke. The technical rules for legislative acts also prohibit such proposals, but you formally submitted them, signed up to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In addition, last Wednesday, with the support of the Central Party, the opposition voted down the decision of the board not to submit proposals against the Estonian Constitution, offensive, threatening our security. So what does that mean now? This means that it is precisely such proposals that we are now going to receive from the coalition and the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U216	Thank you. First of all, no one wants to take away his nation from anyone. You can't do that. But I do not think it is right to classify Estonian people as right and wrong. That's what I wanted to say with my answer. Even if people consider themselves to be part of another culture, they regard Estonia as their home, they respect the Constitution, the principles that we have agreed upon. I just don't think it's reasonable to classify people as right or wrong. Now, I come again to the amendments that you constantly want to talk about. Firstly, we have not made any amendments to do anything. We have proposed amendments to ask the people for an opinion just like the one in your draft. Secondly, all these amendments could have been dealt with in the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu by voting off inappropriate amendments, as usual. That's not what you wanted to do. However, since this was not wanted to be done and these proposals could not be clarified, it makes no sense to talk about them anymore. It was part of the process of processing this draft decision, and today it is history.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U217	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U218	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Kaja Kallas! My question is motivated by an overview by the National Audit Office, where the National Audit Office has identified the actual...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U219	Internet!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U220	I'm sorry, Andres Metsoja, the connection is that we don't understand the question right now. Try again! We'll go on with the questioners. Put yourself back in the queue for questioners. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U221	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! I listened very carefully to your answers. In fact, there are no answers, as a general rule there are no answers. If you are asked how little or how many Estonians should be in Estonia, you will be smart about who is the right Estonian and how wrong to classify is. But what should be the percentage of the population of people who say themselves that they are Estonians, that Estonia should be preserved as Estonia, as stated in the Constitution? I'm not asking you that, I'm not waiting for an answer to that question, because I know I can't. I want an answer to the second and very important question: what exactly is the coalition plan with Ida-Viru County, under the coalition agreement, which is currently signed? Which institutions, which companies, what areas of investment? You are avoiding the emergence of some 10,000 new unemployed people in the coming years, who will receive some kind of support from the country from euro money or other routes, accept their respect for themselves, take their income, take their meaningful lives. What's your plan? Is it your plan to make an Ida-Viru County Crime?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U222	Specifically, Ida-Viru County is very much on our mind. There are actually different ways to attract different jobs. Firstly, the first thing that needs to be done is to admit that we have a socio-economic problem there. We need industries that need the same kind of hands. We know that various industries also have an interest in investing in this region, and that is what needs to be actively addressed. We need to communicate to attract investments to create an industry there. It is not reasonable to do this kind of intimidation of 10,000 job losses and everything else. People are also spoken to in the Riigikogu Hall, and I understand that all kinds of lies spread very easily. You use this instrument a lot, but don't do it! In fact, we need Ida-Virumaa to still be part of Estonia and have work and bread there. At the same time, however, we cannot overlook politics at global and European level. This policy simply makes the production of fossil fuels unreasonable and too expensive. These jobs are gonna go away anyway. We have to deal with the fact that there will be different jobs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U223	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U224	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! There has been a lot of talk in the past that there are a number of issues with the money for crisis measures that has been shared during the crisis. The reservations raised by politicians, as well as economic operators in relation to, for example, Porto Franco, have only amplified these doubts. Your coalition agreement also says that these measures should be transparent and that money should go very clearly where the need for it is greatest. This cannot be done unless there is a clear assessment of what has already been done in the framework of existing measures. Today, the Socialist Group and Raimond Kaljulaid submitted a draft decision to set up a committee of inquiry in the Riigikogu. Do you support this idea and what are the actions you, as Prime Minister, are planning to get clarity and justice in the house?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U225	I agree with you that these crisis measures must be transparent and understandable, and in the same way that an analysis must be made as to whether or not they have been so far. However, I have never been in favour of creating any additional committees of the Riigikogu before. I think the new minister needs to look inside. I think that the new minister should definitely cooperate fully with the Riigikogu in order to analyse these measures, even with the National Audit Office, and look at what has been done wrong. This is needed in order to do the right thing in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U226	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U227	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Prime Minister! My question concerns defence costs. This year they are known to be 645 million and 2,29% of GDP. According to the old RES, the plan was to raise it to around 2.4% of GDP by next year, if the GDP forecast is, of course, correct. A new national defence development plan up to 2030 is now not very meaningful in view of 2% or 2% of the small plus. It simply does not respond to the current security situation. That is why my question is: at what pace and how much do you intend to increase the cost of defence?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U228	Thank you. Defence costs are certainly important, as are any other expenditure in the state budget. We know that this is now over 2% and this 2% is the specific number everyone is looking for, because there has been so much talk about it. But the point we agreed on is that we will continue to cover defence costs, at least at the level prescribed by the plans, at least at the level that already exists. And this is complemented by the costs of receiving allies and the defence investment programme. That's what we agreed on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U229	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U230	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress or performer! The opening coalition has already excelled in the desire to strangle real, real civil society organisations, demanding donor lists from them. Are you also planning to proceed with the establishment of a silent era, to adopt this so-called hate speech law, which failed in December with the voices of the EKRE, the Fatherland and the Centre Party in this hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U231	Thank you. First of all, what are real citizens' associations? We're going to control non-profit organizations. What are real citizens' associations? I don't know, we don't have that kind of thing. Secondly, as far as this draft hate speech is concerned, when we had a very thorough debate here on criminalising the hate speech, the idea arose that perhaps it would be reasonable to move forward with it, taking a small step. And this small step would be to put a case on the list of aggravating circumstances in the Penal Code when a crime has been committed against certain groups of people. This would allow it to be controlled for all crimes. It turned out from this debate that it was as if I did not know whether or not it existed at all, but if this aggravating circumstance was not there, it was as if it did not. So basically, if you've committed a crime, a separate hate speech section cannot be applied. We would only make it an aggravating circumstance. This means that if a crime has been committed, it will also be examined whether the aggravating fact is that it was a crime based on hatred. Let's start with a small step, but still something.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U232	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U233	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and the speaker. Unfortunately, I do not have enough time to explain to you what real civil society organisations are and what they are not. But, to put it simply, those that do not hang on to the national teat do not receive money from public authorities, from ministries, but finance themselves, run their own agendas in society, these are real civil society organisations. But those that get money from the state aren't real. Very simply and very simplisticly! I'm sorry, but this whole round of questions and answers has convinced me very, very deeply that you are not prepared to be Prime Minister of the country. You don't have the experience, you don't have the knowledge, you don't have the charisma. I'm sorry to say so brutally, but that's the way it is. But I come back to my last question concerning Ida-Viru County. I've been hearing for over 25 years how we look for investment and replace old new companies and create new jobs and... Unfortunately, during the long-term rule of the Reform Party, all of this did not happen. And having read your coalition agreement, which is a pink manna, and which a student could have written in two hours, I don't think you have any solutions right now. Convince me, please, that you have solutions!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U234	Thank you. May I remind you that you've been in the government for two years. Looks like you've been in opposition for a lifetime and maybe you've taken that role, but you've actually been in government for two years. All these reproaches can't come to me who I'm asking for your mandate today. Those reproaches should still be made in front of the mirror, for themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U235	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U236	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good candidate for Prime Minister! Unlike Mart Helme, I am convinced that you have all the preconditions for becoming a good Prime Minister. But I want to continue with the issue of teachers' salaries, which is very close to my heart. In answer to my previous question, you said that you cannot say whether or not teachers' salaries are rising, that everything depends on the March economic forecast. At the same time, Jaak Aab, Minister of your new government, has already arrived in the media to announce the thrilling news that next year we will face an extraordinary pension rise. How can you make very specific financial promises in one area and, at the same time, thousands of teachers have to wait for the economic forecast on which it depends whether or not their pay will rise over the next two years?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U237	Thank you. This has to do with the release of money from the second pension pillar and that the money released should go back to retirement. I mean, it should go to cover the pension deficit. This is why the issue of pensions is, as has been pointed out separately. But we don't know how much money gets out of it right now. As regards the increase in teachers' pay, everyone understands the nature of the problem. We understand that there is a need to value teachers and to find the means to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U238	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U239	Thank you, Mr President. [[There's no question.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U240	There is nothing to do, we have not yet reached the level of the Internet in Pärnu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U241	This shows that investments need to be made to reach a high-speed internet in Pärnu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U242	We'll go with the questioners. Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U243	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Echo! I'm gonna go right where I left off. The next question is about mid-earth air control. If defence costs are to be increased, there must be a clear objective. Two power gaps, coastguards and mine-watering, were now eliminated by the outgoing government, or rather the decision has been made to close these gaps. Unfortunately, the outgoing government did not reach a consensus on midland air control, which is unfortunate. Also, ladies and gentlemen from the Committee on National Defence, which is part of your political party, have made a very constructive proposal to create this capacity, but unfortunately we were unable to resolve it positively in the committee. My question is: how do you plan to proceed with mid-earth air control so that the most important power gap we have left can now be eliminated?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U244	Thank you. The same colleagues in the Committee on National Defence gave me a nice overview of this and, since the Head of the Ministry of Defence is coming from our ranks, they will also give him this overview. I'm sure he'll take care of it and consider it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U245	Andres Metsoja, fourth try, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U246	Thank you, good manager. Dear Kaja Kallas! First of all, I propose that, in future, the rules on home and work should be changed so that snowy sittings are closed at a distance. It's not gonna work! But now a question for the Prime Minister's candidacy. The National Audit Office has pointed out that Estonia is divided into two parts: Tallinn and other Estonia. And he points out some sort of solution for the European Union's resources to be distributed on a new basis. You could actually look at it and still share most of the European Union's support measures with other Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U247	Well, I guess there was something to understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U248	Yeah, it was. Thank you. One thing is understandable: investments must be made quickly into the fast internet to make it work in Pärnu and, of course, in all parts of Estonia. The question then was whether to divide Estonia into two keys to European Union support. I've been looking into it myself. There will be an obstacle, above all, to the fact that we have only 1.3 million inhabitants and, in accordance with the principle of distribution of EU money, we do not meet this criterion that at least one region must be much larger. Therefore, there are certain obstacles. But in order for us to focus more European Union money on other regions, I agree. And, in fact, these recovery funds and European programmes make it possible to contribute more to regional development. I think it's important.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U249	Thank you, Prime Minister candidate. It seems that the members of the Riigikogu have no further questions for you. Thanks for the answers. Ladies and gentlemen, due to the Home and Working Procedures Act, there is no negotiation and we can go straight to the final vote. I would like to remind you that the mandate of the Prime Minister's candidate to form a government is decided by a majority of the Riigikogu's votes. This means that the candidate for a Prime Minister will receive a mandate if he votes for it more than there are votes against. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the mandate of Prime Minister candidate Kaja Kallas to form a government. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U250	70 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of granting the mandate, 30 against and no abstentions. Prime Minister candidate Kaja Kallas received a mandate. Congratulations and strength to work!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U251	Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the end of today's Riigikogu session. The free microphone round is beginning and all members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to speak in the free microphone for up to five minutes. After the hammer hit, please! Mart Helme, please! Ladies and gentlemen, the session of the Riigikogu continues! Free mike.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U252	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand the excitement is great, but if you're having a conversation with each other, of course, it's very nice to do it in the cafeteria or in the costaars. I specifically took the floor so that it would be fixed in the verbatim and remain so-called history. Because what happened in this hall today was embarrassing. We saw an incompetent person's unconvincing, incompetent performance. When the Reform Party left power, they had a poor prime minister. Now that the Reform Party comes to power, they're gonna get a worse prime minister. But that's not the most important thing. People come, people go, people are mortal. What matters is how this government is born, how this government was born. What is important is that this government is, essentially, born as a result of a coup, precisely timed and, as one of the funny teeth said, as a result of an operation carried out by the Corporal. This is a real threat to democracy; it is a real threat to Estonia's survival. We heard the cross-cutting answers to repeated questions here when the people of our party, our group, wanted to know how much the number and percentage of Estonians could then be, so that Estonia would remain and remain as Estonia. We didn't get any answers, we got some kind of spin. But Estonia can only survive and remain as Estonia if Estonians form a critical mass here. Estonia cannot survive if there is no democracy, if the acceptance of democratic processes is decided by the chambers, if information operations are carried out, if people are arrested who are essentially not subject to prosecution. This is the end of democracy in Estonia. And it must be fought. It is very sad and very embarrassing if people who have received a mandate from the people in this Chamber do not understand it, do not draw their own conclusions and do not draw their own actions according to it. These people might realize that what is happening today is comparable to 1934. Once again, I have to point under this window. At that time, too, a coup took place with the silent approval of the parties. This coup has also now taken place with the silent approval of the Sots; we have seen it now in the vote. What followed? A silent era followed. There is also now a silent era: there is only one ideology, there are only one viewpoints that are acceptable, and the rest are not acceptable; the rest are criticized, rejected, condemned. This kind of Estonia will not survive. This kind of Estonia can allocate even 20% to defence costs; it will not survive. It's out of the question. Estonia of the Silent Age will not survive and it will be necessary to draw its own conclusions from it in this Chamber. What happened next? Miscalculation. A miscalculation hoping for allies. It is a miscalculation that the great British Empire is obliged to do so, and it is certain that Estonia and other small Baltic countries will be protected. No, you didn't. At the moment, there is a strong conviction that an ally beyond the ocean will certainly come, compulsory in any case, to protect us. But an ally across the ocean has a focus on the Pacific, not the Atlantic anymore. China has a focus and a hot spot in Taiwan. Is there more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U253	Can't, there's five minutes, there's three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U254	Got it! And maybe here's another miscalculation. So what? We send a delegation back to Moscow to negotiate trade, but it comes from there as an ultimatum base agreement? Because we have a silent era, and there must be no other way of thinking, there cannot be, it must be beaten down, it must be ridiculed, as we have heard from this remote control, even at me. I'm told I don't know what I've said and done. I'm talking and doing what's in my heart. And I have an Estonia in my heart. And I am absolutely convinced that my heart has much more Estonia than the lady who just left this remote control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U255	Thank you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U256	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I wasn't planning on coming here, and Mardi and I didn't have any coordination. But I was at the castle the night the Central Party consulted. I saw how many jeeps were outside, and so on. And what happened the other day made me ring a bell. I've been an investigative journalist for years. On March 3, 2003, Riigikogu elections took place, it was Sunday. And the next day, on Monday, March 4, the assistant mayor of Tallinn, Vladimir Panov, and his business partner at the time, Priit Tikerpel, who happens to be the wife of Mafia judge Merle Parts, were cuffed to the door of the notary office and carried away like fair bears. Vladimir is known to be an old wrestler. Everything happened in front of the media. What was it anyway? It wasn't a coincidence. As a journalist, I spoke with many of the participants at the time, including lawyers and investigators. I don't have much time to talk here, but in the near future, I will publish those files that explicitly said: this was the first time in the history of Estonia today, when the power structures intervened in changing political decisions. This was the first coup that took place during the new Estonian era. And I quoted today from Siim Kallas, who discussed with his partymates on 5 March 2003 with whom to proceed: either the Central Party or Res Publica. And he said, as I said before, that the Centre Party is suspicious. He didn't suggest you go with them because at the time it was the Central Market scandal, if you remember, and so on. Suspicious company! And he suggested we move on with Res Publica. And now, 17 or 18 years later, I see the exact same handwriting. The combinations are different. At the time, the Central Criminal Police, whose head was our later colleague Andres Anvelt, intervened. Now the D.A.P.D. intervened with the DA's office. And when I'm told that it's the case for the judge to set a date, I remember that my late mother loved to say, "Tell that story to Bear Eer." Bear Eeri was a citizen of Tapa who was a bit of a simple man. I don't believe that. People who know-know the power structures and so on don't believe it. I wish I was wrong. But in that case, the D.A.'s office and the D.A.P.D. should really convince me. But right now, I have to make this statement and support Mart Helmet. It was a coup that really did not involve the military. And it is very sad that, as a result, Kaja Kallas, a fine young lady's government, came to power. There's a lot of nice people out there. But it's as harsh as it is with a coup d'état. Everything is quiet and calm, the lights are on, there are no tanks on the street, but a new government was born.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U257	Thank you. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U258	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, A few moments ago, the questioning of Prime Minister Kaja Kallas has already ended here, what he intends to do, what his plans are. And those who asked these questions had very serious concerns and doubts. Among the questioners was me, who focused on such an important phenomenon as corruption. It is no secret that the previous government union split up precisely because, among other things, a party such as the Central Party became suspected of corruption. This issue has been the subject of constant attention both in the case of Kaja Kallas and in the case of Mailis Reps during coalition negotiations, and they have tried to find different justifications and claimed that nothing like this is happening anymore. But unfortunately, it's happening. I asked Kaja Kallas today what he was going to do to reduce corruption. In a way, my question was a little ultimatic, because I didn't want to hear any round talk, but I wanted to learn concrete actions. And that is why three very simple actions were brought forward, which are planned, but there was no action plan. I was hoping that at this moment, the Prime Minister's candidate Kaja Kallas would understand my reasoning, understand where I'm going. I was referring to the candidate for the Minister of Interior, Kristian Jaan, whose current position was the prefect of the Prefecture of the North. I think Kaja Kallas understood very well where my question was addressed, but he basically avoided it. And actually, this avoidance also came up with my second question when I pointed out that Prefect Kristian Jaani of the Prefecture of the North has cooperated with the Director-General of the Police Department, Elmar Vaher, in investigating and planning various criminal offences. It may be logical that now that the positions of office have changed, Kristian Jaani has become Minister of the Interior, and Elmar Vaher is still Director General, Kristian Jaan may have some influence on the investigation of the Centre Party in connection with the suspicion of corruption. I don't want to say that. Maybe Kristian Jaani is a very good person, and he probably is if he works in a place like this. However, as we know, the fundamental principle of impartial trials and investigations is that the investigation must not only appear impartial but also be impartial. And that is why I asked Kaja Kallas what his opinion was as to whether there could be a potential trade in influence in this investigation and whether there could also be a biased investigation. The answer to Kaja Kallas was that time would tell. In fact, my question had a very large content. Because Kristian Jaani has announced to the public that he will not enter the Central Party now, but maybe he will plan it in the future. Kaja Kallas had the opportunity to choose another route that would not be linked to possible future corruption cases, but he did not want to answer. And I fully agree with the view of the partymate Mart Helme that there is going to be a silent era. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-25_U259	Thank you. There is no more voice in the free microphone. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Today's trial is over. See you tomorrow!
