ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U1	Good fellows! Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Government! Good guests! Let's start the 15th of September briefing. First, we'll run a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U2	26 members of the Riigikogu registered and 75 are missing. The following members of the government participate in the Question Hour: Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, Minister of State Administration Jaak Aab and Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology Andres Sutt. I have a request. We have autumn season and a little reminder: two minutes to ask and three minutes to answer. Since there are seriously many questions, ten questions, I propose that there should be one specific question and one supplementary question for each question. I hope it suits you, good colleagues.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U3	The first question is from a member of the Riigikogu, our good fellow member Rene Kokka. Prime Minister Kaja Kallas responds to this and the subject is the organisation of vaccination. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! A recent analysis by the National Audit Office said that 170000 vaccines were in stock at a time when there were 100,000 people in Estonia who volunteered to vaccinate themselves. But the vaccines were not distributed and the family doctors were admonished. Family doctors would have been as if they were responsible for the low pace. Now the state is determined to put pressure on people by threatening to lose their jobs. I am referring here to the Police and Border Guard Board and the Defence Forces, which have said that it is possible that people in certain positions may not be able to continue from October unless they are ready to vaccinate themselves. The Defence League has the same concern. I would like to congratulate the Rescue Board, which has, at least today, promised that they will not discriminate against people. Consequently, I would like to remind you that vaccination must still be a clear expression of free will for every person and cannot be imposed on people. If people are convinced that this will help, they will also vaccinate. Vaccination of children without parental permission is completely unacceptable. But what I want to ask is whether there has been a debate in the government about how many people you plan to lose their jobs as a result of behaviour such as the Defence Forces, the PBA and the Defence League are now cultivating. What amounts have you taken into account and taken into account when drawing up the state budget? It can be quite certain that it will be reflected in the legal process when people start to stand up for their rights. Have you thought about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U5	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U6	Thank you for your question. Welcome back from the summer vacation! Vaccination is indeed what helps to protect people, and that is why we have created every opportunity for vaccination. Yes, there was a situation in the spring where the vaccine was missing, and that is why we had to focus on certain groups so that they would be privileged to be vaccinated. But now that we no longer have a vaccine deficiency, we have created more and more vaccination options. We have created different ways to vaccinate ourselves without prior registration, we have created opportunities to vaccinate near home, we have created opportunities to vaccinate in schools. Last week, medical students started calling people who hesitate. We have behavioural research that a great deal of fears about vaccination in humans are primarily related to side effects. Therefore, these fears must be dealt with. Can't say you're not scared when you're scared. It is important to understand exactly what he is afraid of and whether it can be shown that the fear of disease should be greater than the fear of side effects resulting from vaccination. We have changed the regulation of biological hazards in the government so that every employer can assess how much their employees are exposed to each other or to customers in such a way that there is a greater risk of infection or transmission of infection. Accordingly, the employer can reorganize the work: people who do not wish to be vaccinated can either do a different job or use personal protective equipment, for example, in situations where the risk of infection needs to be minimised. The dismissal of people from office must certainly be the last measure. But right now there are stories in the press that people are actually dying. Under the Constitution, a person's right to life will surely outweigh another person's right not to vaccinate himself in this particular position, because such a person is simply a health hazard for these weaker people, and this could end in a fatal way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U7	Thank you. Now the first point to be clarified. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U8	Thank you very much. You did not say, unfortunately, whether you have thought about how many people there are, who are facing a possible loss of employment, and what amount or expense we see in the state budget because we have to start arguing with our people in court. But I'm also gonna ask the Health Board about the vaccine warehouse. During the summer, there was a lot of talk about this technically defective warehouse, where we were financially destroyed in a very large amount, our vaccines went to waste. I don't suppose we're happy for any of us to be in this state of carelessness. According to the original information, we're talking about the circa 3 million that the vaccine has gone bad for that amount. Later, there was a rumor that when we bought vaccines, we were talking about a price tag of 4 to 6 million. In addition, there has been talk in the press about the fact that we allowed the Estonian state to support those countries that had a more difficult situation with vaccines, i.e. we are giving several hundred thousand vaccines[doses], some of which have gone to waste. Can you tell me what size we're talking about? How much does this story cost us together: the destroyed vaccines, plus the ones we buy, plus the ones we had to buy more to give to those who are in a more difficult situation than we are? And will anyone finally take responsibility for this clusterbang at political level? Now we're punishing bystanders and other people, but we still haven't found the principal responsible.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U9	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U10	Thank you. First of all, I come back to the first question. You're asking how many people are facing a possible loss of employment. As I said, the employer has the right to carry out a risk analysis and to determine whether other measures can be taken. Then the employer, whether the Defence Forces or the Police and Border Guard Board, can reorganize his work. Maybe that number, how many people might be in danger of being fired, just doesn't exist. Especially when we see that 90% of the people in the Defence Forces have been vaccinated. So I think all the other measures will be taken here before that. Now I'm coming to that vaccine warehouse. When you read the State Chancellery's report on this cluster bump, in fact, mistakes have been made very, very much. 20l7. In 2008, mistakes were made by the contracting authority, the designer and also the builder; of course, mistakes were made halfway by the Health Board, the Estonian Medicines Agency and Riigi Kinnisvara AS. There's been a lot of mistakes all this time. It's a question of political responsibility. The main errors were made in 2017. In 2017, Evgeni Ossinovsky was present as Minister of Health according to my memory. Or was it Riina Sikkut even? But that's not the question. In particular, no minister should be responsible for things he has not done. This took place in 2017. The question is how can we avoid such things in the future? Secondly, you are asking for a specific financial assessment. One thing is the vaccines that perished, the financial side. But the other side is actually that the Health Board warehouse has to be rebuilt, it has to be built properly. These medicines and vaccines are currently being held in the private sector. Perhaps it would be reasonable to order this service from private operators who already have such warehouses. But all of this in the collection means enormous sums that have to be paid gradually.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U11	Thank you. Now one more question from this floor. Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U12	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Very honourable Prime Minister! Health and health are very important and very personal for every person. Adequate and up-to-date information is also essential for making the right decisions here. My question, in some respects, is this also a request: is it not an impression that we are not monitoring and analysing what is happening in the world and that this may not allow us to adequately adjust the measures to the situation and help people make decisions? Perhaps it would be helpful, for example, if a scientific council or other wise people commented on media-related topics such as those in Iceland, in Gibraltar, in India, in relation to vaccination, in relation to medicines. If not, it causes conspiracy theories and rumours and confuses people. The last example I asked a member of the government here a while ago, but I have not received an answer: the UK Government has published a report, a technical briefing, which brings some very frightening data. For example, two vaccines injected into the affected population of 47,400 dead, non-vaccinated, 150,200 dead. Such data need a very good professional interpretation, because if this is not done, people will interpret them themselves. If you could help me here, I'd really appreciate it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U13	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U14	Thank you. Of course, we are monitoring all this information, which is the same in the world and in various European countries. Science has no nationality and these studies are carried out in different countries. This information is also monitored by the Scientific Advisory Board. Of course, they're reporting that information. You will always have the opportunity to ask them, specifically scientists, about the situation in different countries and about the conclusions. I very much agree with you that if things are unclear, there will be conspiracy theories, and unfortunately these conspiracy theories will still arise and be distributed. We live in a society where all kinds of information can be disseminated very easily. Unfortunately, people very easily believe any information that comes from different sources. What do I want to stress? The vaccine against COVID does not make anyone bulletproof, or the more people in the world have been vaccinated, the more people who have received the vaccine will die. They may die of a heart attack, they may die as a result of stroke or accidents, but they have also been vaccinated. I mean, there's no connection. The more people have been vaccinated, the more people who have been vaccinated can be said to die. That doesn't mean they're gonna die from this vaccine, but this vaccine isn't gonna protect you from all the troubles in the world, and that's not what anyone said. What we see in the numbers is that COVID vaccines help prevent COVID from getting sick or more easily affected, so we get several times fewer people in the hospital than we did when we didn't have any vaccines. The question we urgently need to address is that certain people with less immunity need an additional dose to ensure that the vaccine continues to be effective. With this proposal, the Minister of Health and Labour will come to the government on Thursday.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U15	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U16	Let us move on to the second question. It is presented by Priit Sibul, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. The subject is the control of the corona virus. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U17	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good lord! As we know, there is no rest in Parliament. I was anxiously looking forward to the end of the session-free period, and we could meet here with you so that we could thank you for the work you have done and still criticise you a little. But really thanks for the initiative to free Hiiumaa from restrictions, as far as the problem is smaller. I absolutely, with two hands, will just sign what you said last time, that vaccination is reasonable in order for people to be able to suffer the virus more easily, and it will help to control the spread of the virus in society. You've just talked about a number of other sensible things. But last month, there was a co-ordinated lie in communication, and I'd like to get rid of it. You yourself have contributed to this. In particular, I mean that we must not give this issue a chance to be dealt with in lies. False security has been created in society when there are different institutions in the field of vaccination, as I said, including through your mouth, it has started to be referred to as evidence of infection safety. But just in answer to the previous question, you yourself said that we know that people die and fall ill again in this virus if they have also been vaccinated or if they have suffered from the disease. They can still get sick. I really ask that you and the various institutions, politicians, officials do not use this false claim that it is a document proving infection safety.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U18	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U19	Thank you. We've said it's a medical certificate. Indeed, a medical certificate to prove three things: firstly, to prove a person's vaccination, secondly, to prove a defect, and thirdly, to prove the existence of a negative test. Yes, you are right that vaccinations can carry on this disease, and therefore there is an urgent recommendation for anyone who has symptoms of the disease not to go out, even if you have been vaccinated. However, vaccination protects against serious cases of disease, and scientists also say that if you have been vaccinated, even if you are carrying this virus, you will spread it less and therefore be less dangerous. I have been asked if vaccinated people should do tests, for example, if they go to the theater, so that everyone has negative tests. But what is important is, firstly, that additional testing is a financial cost, it is inconvenient, etc., secondly, that we protect people and that they can protect themselves by vaccination, and that, after all, people who have not been vaccinated are particularly dangerous. But why is this a threat to those who have not been vaccinated? It is precisely because they have not protected themselves, that they have not been vaccinated, that the risk is not so high among those who are vaccinated. We had basically three choices in the government when the infection rates started to rise again. The first option was that we do nothing, which would have meant that the burden of hospitals would go out of hand and that we should limit planned treatment and people might not be able to talk to the hospital about their other health problems. The second option was to make the restrictions evenly for everyone, which would again not be fair to the companies that are going down, to the workers, or to the people who have behaved responsibly. The third option was to distinguish between controlled environments where we ask for this medical certificate, where the risk of infection is lower, and places where we do not do so and where we ask to wear masks such as public transport, church, public places.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U20	The question to be specified. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U21	Thank you. I said I'd agree with a lot of things you said today. My question and problem is specifically in this false statement. Perhaps this is not an infectious safety document, but, as you rightly said right now, a document certifying vaccination, and that is how it should be handled. I'm gonna ask you more specific. We know that the government has set targets for vaccination, we know that the objective set by the Minister for Labour and Health next Wednesday will put the bar under a straight back in the government. What are you planning to do as head of government? Quite a number of officials have resigned, some have been fired, and soon no one else will be held accountable, and only Tanel Rock will remain. How long are you gonna let us listen to this swinging bullshit?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U22	I'm gonna do a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a You were right in the aspect of our holiday, you pointed out that pursuant to the Home and Working Procedures Act, the members of the Riigikogu have no leave. I remember being corrected by my colleague, Jevgeni Ossinovski, when I said "Minister of Labour and Health." He always improved that health first and then work. So I will also correct you: Minister of Health and Labour. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U23	Thank you. It's true that it's getting harder and harder to convince people. It wasn't until a few days ago that I sat down with the behaviorologists to understand. We have people who hesitate. Why do they hesitate? There are people who say they probably don't vaccinate, there are people who say they're probably vaccinate, but they have reservations. The first concern everyone has is about the side effects of the vaccine. What are we gonna do for this? We actually do information to help overcome these fears. As I said before, health students are conducting motivational interviews to get to the bottom of their fears. Plus, we're going to make a number of moves, which are still about facilitating vaccination: vaccination at employers, vaccination night this week, vaccination buses, vaccination ambulances, family doctors calling, counseling, including pharmacies. Yes, the Minister for Health and Labour is working very hard to achieve this objective. However, it is now clear that we will certainly not be able to meet this target next week. This goal still doesn't go anywhere. If we wish, as you said in the previous question, to have more freedom, as I suggested that Hiiumaa could do so, then there is still a long way to go to achieve this goal, and there must be an effort in that regard. Will the change of Minister for Health and Labour help to achieve this objective? I have doubts about that. I'm reading about it, and I'm communicating with behaviorologists on the subject of what are the main problems that vaccination is. Will people then begin to vaccinate more, and will we be able to dissuade those last people who are not convinced against vaccination? I don't think it depends very much on who is the Minister of Health and Labour whether a person still makes that decision to vaccinate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U24	Now, one more question. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U25	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! In your previous answers, you made it very clear that unvaccinated people are responsible if people have to die. Maybe you literally hinted that they were potential murderers. First of all, it's very ugly labelling. There's absolutely no way to prove that. Secondly, vaccinations carry the virus in the same way as non-vaccinations, and there has been a lot of talk here today, which is why blaming unvaccinated people for someone's death is wrong. The mere clues to this are also extremely inappropriate. In your second reply, however, you said that vaccinated people will also die, that no one is bulletproof, that even vaccinated people will eventually die. Perhaps simply by following your words and your hinting rhetoric: do you say that vaccineers and vaccines can also be blamed for someone's death?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U26	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U27	Thank you. I understand that the members of the Riigikogu are not on vacation, but I am glad to see that you are well rested and completely returned to your former wickedness. The truth doesn't bind you very much, of course, and you put words in my mouth that I haven't said. What I said about the vaccine was that when we talk about the COVID vaccine, we're talking about protecting ourselves against COVID-19. This means that a person can still get an illness, he may also get an accident. So the vaccine against COVID doesn't make a person bulletproof against all the other diseases, the world's problems, and all that. Coming to this nursing home case, the fact is, there was a maintenance worker who wasn't vaccinated. The fact is, he had the COVID-19 virus, and the fact is, he brought that virus into that nursing home, and the fact is, 18 people were infected, three of them died. These are facts, and these facts need to be looked at exactly as they are.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U28	Thank you. Before I finish this question, the procedural question, Henn Põllaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U29	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. I am very surprised that when the Prime Minister comes to the Riigikogu to answer questions from members of the Riigikogu, instead of answering, he starts his speech with ugly and accusations, branding members of the Riigikogu as an embodiment of evil, and that they are back in their former evil. Do you consider it appropriate, polite and possible for the Prime Minister to view the Riigikogu and members of the Riigikogu in this way?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U30	Thank you. I certainly think respect from both sides is more necessary. I'm sure this new session will give us that. Kalle Grünthal, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U31	Thank you, Mr President. EKRE is often accused of being such and similar in their use of words. But I find it very unpleasant to note that in reply to the question of a member of the Riigikogu, Helle-Moonika, to a very constructive question, to my mind, where there was no irony, but a concern for the people, the first sentence was that it was good to see you, you are again an embodier of evil or something similar. Do you consider it appropriate, Mr. Speaker, for the conduct of the government and of the person who still bears the Prime Minister's name in Question Time, in which you must report on the activities of the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U32	Thank you. I consider it appropriate to say what I said in reply to Henn Põllea, that respect is needed on both sides, and I believe we can pass it on to both sides in this Chamber. A procedural question, Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U33	Procedural remark. I actually want to thank the President-in-Office for making this remark. I would like to remind you that I began my speech with the words'Prime Minister'.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U34	Thank you. A procedural question. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U35	I would like to clarify what the President of the sitting meant by respect. Does this mean that the ambassador should not ask the Prime Minister unpleasant questions and want answers to them? Or has this respect still meant that the Prime Minister will answer the questions asked by the Ambassador in a polite form without making his own assessments?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U36	I meant what we have received in the children's room in particular. A procedural question. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U37	Thank you! Because it's an incontrovertible fact that the Prime Minister used the expression "the embodiment of evil..." what? [[A voice from the hall.]] Evil. Will you make a statement to the Prime Minister's office that he might apologize to Helle-Moonika Helme?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U38	First of all, the Prime Minister did not use the expression you said. But let's not make any fine-tuning around here. I think we could move on with this. But yes, as I have replied to several of your groupmates, and also to you, that we need respect on both sides. Thank you. Now I will stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U39	Let's move on. The third question is asked by Indrek Saar, a member of the Riigikogu, the Prime Minister Kaja Kallas answers this question and the subject is the price of electricity. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister! Allow me to wish you both a happy New Year, because the new Riigikogu Question Time season has begun. I also hope that they will be constructive and substantive and that all of them will benefit our country more broadly. But my question to the Prime Minister is based on concerns about what our ever-increasing electricity prices have led to. All-time records are broken from day to day. This directly affects all of us, but especially those people who, for one reason or another, have a significant share of their livelihood in electricity, either because their income is low or because their costs for electricity are high. This affects those people who cannot afford to change all their luminaires tomorrow for more modern ones, which consume less energy, or buy new appliances, not to mention those whose heating systems are based on electricity, whether it is ground heating or air heat pump, not to mention electricity heating. This is an important problem for them. What is the government planning to do to smooth the increase in electricity prices across different target groups? How do you see how we can proceed from here in such a way that the increase in the price of electricity would not have a significant impact on consumers and also on entrepreneurship?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U41	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U42	Thank you. It is indeed a great concern that the price of electricity has risen and is rising like this. There are several factors why electricity prices are higher. As we know, Estonia is part of the Nordic electricity market, which has actually brought us cheaper electricity than when we were alone. Why? Because we have become part of the Nordic renewable electricity. This year's problem is that there has been exceptionally little water in the Norwegian hydro power plants and, unfortunately, it has also been the quietest summer. The price of fossil fuel (natural gas, coal) has also increased very high, and so much because the price of the CO2 quota has increased twice in a year: from EUR 30 to EUR 60 per tonne. In addition, economic growth has recovered and electricity consumption has increased in turn. You're asking what we're doing. First of all, the issue of people who are less insured. Less insured persons have the possibility to receive financial support from local authorities in order to cope with the increased price of electricity. But what do we do at government level in the long term? Firstly, in the last quarter of this year, the State will announce 450 gigawatt-hours per year of the largest renewable electricity supply so far, precisely because these low-carbon energy sources are cheaper. Secondly, 2023 will be followed by an even greater reduction of 650 gigawatt-hours of renewable electricity per year. In addition, we decided only recently in the government to switch to renewable energy in the public sector, which we want to do in order to bring more renewable energy projects without support, or to invest in new renewable energy plants, so that we can get cheaper electricity. Of course, it all takes time. These investments must be made there. I have a few more points, maybe I can continue to answer the next question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U43	The question to be specified. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U44	Thank you! With the exception of social benefits, these are, of course, all relatively long-term solutions. However, the government has brought us two drafts and is forcefully pushing them forward here in the Riigikogu. They will certainly increase electricity prices for consumers and for most businesses in the perspective. This is a second-reading law this week that allows the Narva plants to burn wood without limit and pay the renewable energy fee. The renewable energy charge, which represents a significant part of the electricity bill, will not necessarily fall as it could in the future, but will rise as a result of this bill. The second draft, which bears the number 344 in the Riigikogu, also concerns the setting of a more favourable price for electricity to large consumers. In the same way, the government has found a solution there, without contesting that it could be considered under certain conditions of competition, which, in my opinion, is inverse to what you have stated that the price of electricity could rather be brought down. This, too, will increase by at least a third in the renewable energy pay perspective. Should the government not, above all, think twice about withdrawing these draft laws and presenting them in such a way as to find other solutions to solve these problems without increasing the price of electricity? And what are the things the government is planning to do in the short term? You have now referred to the activities of the local government, but the government also certainly has its own levers to mitigate the increase in electricity prices to some extent.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U45	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U46	Thank you. First of all, in Narva stations, the burning of wood. Firstly, it is not true that it is possible to burn a log there without limit, but in fact there are very clear limits where and under what conditions this can be done. It must not be wood with a large diameter, i.e. a round log theme does not go down there; it must be low-value wood. Let's look at these prices. The high-quality pine wage costs EUR 41 per megawatt-hour, while the construction waste costs EUR 8 to EUR 13 per megawatt-hour, which is purely EUR 10. You say it doesn't matter what we do in the long run, but it does matter. Maybe not literally like this, but precisely because these things have not been done before, we are in a situation like this. We do not have enough renewable energy production capacity to provide us with cheaper electricity. I now come to what you said: reducing the renewable energy fee for large consumers. It is true that in the future renewable energy charges will be differentiated to large consumers and small consumers. The aim of this reduction is to reduce network charges, including for small consumers. I am looking at what consists of the price of the household consumer. A very large part of this, i.e. 42.8%, is network charges. While large consumers increase electricity consumption, domestic consumers, small consumers, network charges are thus decreasing. So all in all, small consumers will also benefit from it. In the long term, it is also important that we are also talking at European level about where we have energy sources. We have, for example, the enormous potential of sea wind parks. Together with the Latvians, we are developing a common sea wind park just to have this production capacity. We are negotiating with other Baltic Sea countries to create a single electricity grid for the Baltic Sea, so that energy can move to all the countries along the Baltic Sea [there], where it will be cheaper. This is all in order to avoid further increases in electricity prices.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U47	Now, one more question. Jevgeni Ossinovski.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! But the question was, what will the government do in the short term? As one classic of economic policy has said, in the long run, we are all dead. We have high electricity prices now, and we have these problems now. What is this plan besides paying income support? I realized there was your reference. Where, then, can you seek help? Two lines, though. First, in the context of the burning of wood, you say that the diameter of the wood is limited. There is no limit to the diameter of the wood in this bill. It is said that one could do so with another bill, but it has not even begun to be dealt with by the Riigikogu. In fact, the framework of this draft has become extremely broad. So, indeed, this could lead to an increase in renewable energy [remuneration] by even a third if, for example, the next government decides to announce a project for the mass burning of significantly larger wood than has been the case so far. Obviously, this bill raises the price of renewable energy. The second draft, just like that, increases the renewable energy charge by 40%. This is this proposal here and now, what you have done for Estonian consumers: to increase the price of electricity through the renewable energy charge, with two specific drafts. I'll ask you if you'll withdraw these drafts. In a situation where electricity prices are unprecedentedly high, you will add more wood to the oven instead of providing relief.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U49	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U50	Thank you. As regards the burning of wood in Narva boilers, there are four conditions. First, waste wood is used, with a fixed maximum diameter of waste wood. Secondly, a price cap of EUR 10 per megawatt-hour and a ceiling of 500 gigawatt-hours has been set for the aid. The aid is limited to two years and a cogeneration plant is established in the region, Narva. These were the terms we agreed on and it has to meet. I don't understand your reasoning in this sense. Yes, I admit that the rise in electricity prices is now everywhere in the world, and that is a problem. We can do something to a very limited extent at the cost of electricity. You are complaining, on the one hand, that we are paying a renewable energy charge in order to increase the use of renewable energy and, on the other hand, that oil shale should be abandoned. You can't have those two things at once. If there are more and more renewable energy sources, this support will be paid. This aid is limited to 12 years from the start of production. When I answered Indrek Saare's question, I pointed out what are the measures we are doing to get rid of the actual payment of renewable energy support. So this incentive to create new renewable energy capacities should actually be from a different point of view than this renewable energy charge, precisely in order to reduce the renewable energy charge, which really accounts for quite a large part of people's electricity bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U51	Thank you. I will not stop working on this issue, because we have a procedural question. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U52	Thank you for the floor. I have an appeal simply because of how the Prime Minister began to answer my second question. This, of course, relates to the procedural discussions at the end of the previous question. I have the call that we should not go along with this example between being followed by a bad example and putting words that they have not said in the mouth of others. I have never argued that a long perspective is not important. I hope we don't all go quietly to this style, even though some use it consistently.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U53	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. I have some fresh information from last night's board meeting. In fact, the Chancellery of the Riigikogu informed us that procedural questions no longer count as speeches. Just for information, so we all know that. There are different calculations here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U54	But let's keep going. The fourth question asked by the member of the Riigikogu, Kert Kingo. This is answered by Andres Sutt, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology. The subject is identifying the person and reading it. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U55	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! The Estonian Social Insurance Board has announced that Estonian pensioners living in Finland need not only an ID card to establish their living status, but the pensioner must prove their identity with the ID card during the video call, in addition to the ID card [if any] must make a video call in person. Similarly, notaries require facial recognition when performing notarial activities via a video bridge, i.e. when performing remotely, and do not simply accept an ID card. Speaking of an electronic vote, the National Information System Authority on 25 August said that adding facial recognition would require that the issue of privacy, in addition to accessibility, has been discussed both at the legislative level and in society at large, if a person does not have a good enough Internet connection or camera to participate in the democratic process. In the light of the above examples, please explain. If no privacy is seen in the request for facial recognition when a pensioner is found alive and in notary transactions, how can this be the case in e-voting? What does privacy mean? How can a bad internet connection or camera be a problem only in e-voting, but in all other actions this problem is not seen?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U56	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable questioner! You have certainly raised an important area. By way of introduction, I will review how personal identification is carried out in the Republic of Estonia. There are three ways of identifying an electronic identity: an ID card, a mobile ID issued by the Estonian state, and a Smart-ID that meets exactly the same security standards and is a private solution. All of these solutions are with two-step authentication or two-step detection. It is very important to make sure that a person is actually who he claims to be. You raised the question of whether, in the case of e-elections, we could switch to facial recognition technology. In this regard, you also referred to a study carried out by AS Cybernetica on behalf of the State Information System Authority. Cybernetica AS is undoubtedly one of those in Estonia who has the best knowledge about cryptography, identity recognition and also cyber security. So the conclusion that came from this analysis was that this technology is so much new that it is not feasible to use facial recognition as a technological solution for elections, e-elections then. Of course, we use facial recognition in different situations in everyday life, someone using it on a mobile phone, it is also possible to use it in different applications of the Internet Bank. But for example, when we're talking about this particular bank that I'm using, biometric identification can make transfers to a certain small limit. If there is a larger amount to be transferred, then the PIN codes should still be used. That is, I think, very right, because we need to be sure that the solutions we offer are safe. I do not think it is right to start testing new technologies, whether they are good or not, whether they are safe enough, with e-elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U58	Now let's go to a more specific question. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U59	Thank you. In my earlier workplaces, I dealt with a number of cases when individuals had given their ID-card with PIN codes to another person's possession and use. The best-known scheme is the use of "tankers" on the company's management body when one person signs different documents with the identity card of another person at a time and place that is appropriate for him or her. Since there are only warnings about ID-card PIN codes to keep the PIN codes carefully, don't forget, don't share, don't enter where it happens, the person is basically not responsible for sharing their ID-card and PIN codes. In view of SA Cybernetica's report of 2 July, according to which the e-vote implements digital control, which consists only of entering the PIN1 code, how can it be certain that the voter was still the person whose ID-card system was logged in and voted on and that the vote expressed the will of the ID-card holder?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U60	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U61	Thank you. I think that the answer to this question lies partly in your own question. If we look at e-elections and look at those tests and checks that have been carried out throughout the years of this process, including by AS Cybernetica, there has been no identification of any cases in which it could be argued that e-elections are not a secure solution or that in the case of e-elections, the person voting is not the same person as [must]. I think you raised a very important question about the ID-card and the PIN codes. I even extend it to passwords that every user uses when he enters the Internet world. As with bank cards, as with ID-cards, mobile-IDs or Smart-IDs, it is very important that these passwords are separate from this device so that they are in the person's head to have these passwords changed regularly. I think we've all read in the paper or in the police news how much cybercrime there has been, how many frauds there has been. This is the fastest growing area of fraud or crime. If we look at cybersecurity more widely, the scale and intensity of cyber attacks and their consequences are increasingly severe, central service providers will be attacked. A recent example was when Swedish Coop stores had to close down because of the attack on a completely legitimate American company that offered them the software solution they used in cash systems. Or let us take the example of Ireland. Recently, a ransom of 20 million was demanded from hospitals, which the Irish Government did not pay very well, but the restoration of this system has so far cost the Irish people 100 million. Cybersecurity starts with every person, starts with us, because it depends on our hand movements, which are preceded by our way of thinking, whether or not we click on each link, whether or not we exchange our passwords. The weakest link is always this first user. So let's keep our passwords, passwords, and exchange them!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U62	Dear colleagues, does anyone have any further questions? No, it's not. The second point to be clarified. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U63	Thank you. I accept the last sentence that cybersecurity begins with every human being. I still expect people to expect compliance with cyber security rules from authorities, especially public authorities. In recent times, there has been a great deal of information in the media about the fact that, even in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, for example, the work has been suspended because of hackers and the data has gone on a very large scale to explore the Internet. The last piece of information was how the photos of the ID cards were managed by the hackers to get their hands on the servers and the Ministry. Today is again news of how these same photos are threatened to be distributed online. What kind of cyber security are we talking about, especially to ordinary people? It's not security, if you say people, keep your PIN codes. What has the Ministry done to ensure that we have security and that we also have security in elections in the case of e-votes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U64	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U65	Thank you. Very good and correct emphasis. The same examples that you have given mean very clearly that Estonia, too, is checked and tested on a daily basis as to which door it is possible to break in. These concrete examples that you have brought have been managed by the National Information System Authority today, places have been placed on the table. Going back a little bit: our cybersecurity and the development of our digital society depend on how it has been financed. The fact is that funding for digital society and cyber security has clearly been inadequate in recent years. For me, that's priority number one. This is what I have been talking about one at a time with government ministers, introducing them with a cyber security threat picture in their area, talking about what kind of investment is needed. This is a joint task and effort for all of us. It is up to me to map and look together with other ministers and, of course, with the Riigikogu for solutions so that we can also receive adequate funding for cyber security and the development of digital society. This funding has been clearly inadequate in recent years in terms of security and basic capabilities (for example, the share of red tape). We have been paying attention to developments on how to make things better, but the side of keeping up and how to strengthen cybersecurity is in the background. I'll change it. I have a meeting this Friday, among other things, with vital services and essential services, which together amount to a hundred people, to talk about it at the business level as well. It's not just a national issue, it's a whole society issue. We need to be more aware of cyber-consciousness, cyber-security. That's why I come back to the passwords, I come back to the awareness, I come back to the training, because the doors are opened by a real person, pressing the wrong link using expired passwords, trusting these passwords, or leaving them somewhere to hang. These matters must be dealt with and I will deal with them, and I hope that all members of the Riigikogu will be careful on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U66	Thank you very much. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U67	Let us move on to question five. It has been presented by Mikhail Lotman, a member of the Riigikogu, and Prime Minister Kaja Kallas answers this and the subject is foreign policy. Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! I hope you will remember that, for the first time, when you were in the role of Prime Minister here in the Riigikogu, I expressed concern about the sustainability of Estonian foreign policy. You assured me there's no reason to worry that you're driving it now, your hand is on the rudder, and you even set me right. But my question relates to the latest developments in Afghanistan and globally. There are many facets of the disaster in Afghanistan. One is humanitarian: local residents, refugees, etc. The second aspect is global. The Taliban's victory gave great encouragement to international terrorism, various authoritarian regimes, etc. Even one member of the Riigikogu has expressed the opinion that this is the beginning of the end of liberal democracy. Against this background, I find it rather strange to hear the silence of our Foreign Minister on this subject. I know that not only the Riigikogu, but also the government did not rest in the summer and the staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have done an excellent job. But as far as our Foreign Minister is concerned, he only said that positive messages will also come from the Taliban and that Estonia will monitor how human rights are. That's what he said after he was shot by a female cop, pregnant, had been shot by several... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I know, I have a call...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U69	I understand, but please, tell me your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U70	I'm a person with special needs, I'm talking slow.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U71	Please, let's take it easy, let's take it easy. It's okay. Please tell me your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U72	I'm so sorry! Yeah, well, I'd like to hear your point of view.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U73	Thank you. Please, Kaja Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U74	Thank you. First of all, I confirm what I said the first time: our foreign policy direction is what has been built since the time of Lennart Sea. The basic motto is never to be alone again. I very much agree with you, there are several dimensions of what has happened in Afghanistan, one is the global dimension and the other is the humanitarian dimension. This humanitarian dimension we are dealing with within our capabilities. We have helped people who have worked with us in NATO, who have worked with us at European Union level and who have also been involved with Estonian non-profit organisations. As far as the global approach is concerned, one thing that is often asked of us is whether you do not now believe in NATO. No, our faith in NATO is unwavering and NATO's cooperation with its allies is working very well there. Now, what you're referring to. Indeed, Foreign Minister Eva-Maria Liimets was on ETV's "Field Eyes," where he said that if Estonia had to recognise the Taliban government in Afghanistan, it would do so conditionally. This did not mean that Estonia would somehow go to recognise the Afghan Government. In addition, countries, not governments, are actually recognised, and we do not see any promising signals in Afghanistan at the moment. What you're referring to, what's going on in there, worries everyone. In any case, you also referred to the relationship with terrorist organisations, they have not been interrupted by the Taliban. Putting the government together doesn't give any encouraging signals. What the allies are saying is that dialogue with the Taliban must, however, be conducted with the main objective of unhindered humanitarian aid reaching the people. In the case of Afghanistan, it is also interesting, in a global sense, to see that the Afghan economy is also very much dependent on subsidies that have been stopped by different countries. So, in any case, we must act with our allies to ensure that there is no humanitarian disaster.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U75	The question to be specified. Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I understand that you expressed the sustainability of foreign policy, but in this context, there is something strange about the silence of the Foreign Minister and the fact that his message is not heard. Why don't you let him know? Of course, there is no rest, but the siesta may also be over. But I can't say the Minister of Foreign Affairs is quiet at all. We are still hearing such quite strong words, both in Poland and in Hungary, that the processes there are not democratic and are even potentially dangerous. Don't you think this is a bit of a mess? Both Hungarian and Polish aircraft protect our airspace; they are our allies in NATO. Of course, I don't like everything that's going on there either, but they're our friends and allies. And when we're talking about Poles, Poland, they're like us on the front line, especially maybe now because of this hybrid aggression. Would it not be important here to make a very clear distinction between who our friends are and to act and formulate everything in such a way that our messages to them can be milder? I understand that France and Germany are not happy with them, but we do not have to run with everyone right away.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U77	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U78	Thank you. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has also acted precisely in relation to the Belarus-Lithuania crisis and the Belarus-Poland crisis. What is happening at the border is a clear Belarus attack, a hybrid attack, actually against the European Union. We have had joint meetings with both the Baltic Prime Ministers and the Polish Prime Minister on how to respond to these steps, and there have also been meetings at foreign ministers level, at defence ministers level, because, as we all say, Estonia's defence is starting at the Lithuanian border at the moment. We have very close cooperation with the Polish Government. Just as you said, Poland is our ally in the European Union and NATO. We actually have a good relationship with Poland. It was only last Monday and Tuesday that there was a communication on this issue with the Polish Prime Minister. There are certainly reproaches, let us say, for bearing European values, about what is happening to them in Poland. But what you are saying is that we must work together with Poland, it is true, and that is what we are doing. I have not heard of us attacking Poland directly in any way. Like I said, what's going on at the border with Belarus is... [[A voice from the hall. The manager's ringing the bell.]] Poland actually keeps this line there very clearly. It may be important that Poland, Lithuania and Latvia operate at borders as they must, in the sense that they protect their borders from illegal migration. These people are in Belarus legally trying to cross the border. Fortunately, these flows have stopped lately, but it is more likely that this is some sort of intermediate break, because, when you put two issues together, what is happening in Afghanistan will certainly also have an impact on how the processes are going to take place at the border with Belarus. There we absolutely need to work with Latvia, Lithuania and also Poland.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U79	And now for an additional question. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U80	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good lord! I come back to the very last question Mikhail Lotman asked. I think this is probably the first time I have heard you speak publicly about Poland on a positive note. Perhaps you will review your previous attitude towards both Poland and Hungary, as well as those of your colleagues. I do encourage you, and I strongly encourage you to express a really positive joint role in public. But I have also noted in the past only criticism or that there are problems that we do not like about Hungary and Poland, and surprisingly, a member of your government really said that the Taliban has positive promises and must, as is said here, look for a common part. Have you discussed in the government what kind of joint part of the Taliban would your government, or even the Estonian state, have in your opinion, which seems completely absurd and incomprehensible to me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U81	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U82	Thank you. What I said earlier does not mean that my views and political beliefs coincide with those of the Polish Government on all matters. No, we have very many differences, which we are also arguing about at the table in the European Union, for example, on the rights of minorities. But what I am very positive about is our defence cooperation. This cooperation has been very constructive and for this we are certainly grateful to Poland. I forgot the second question. [[The floor shall be specified.]] Oh, yeah, sorry! Those were so different places for these questions, I'm sorry! There's no such thing on the government level. When I was asked a question, as if the Foreign Minister had said something like that, I asked for these quotations to be taken out. In fact, he didn't say anything like that, but he answered the question, "What are these terms? " There's a whole series of conditions that definitely don't show any positive sign. Once again, countries are recognised, we cannot in any way recognise governments. We are working here with our allies in NATO and the European Union. Certainly, our interaction with the governments of different countries goes hand in hand with them, but now there are encouraging signals that the Taliban is acting in a way that is understandable, understandable and respectful of human rights, we do not see.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U83	Okay. Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U84	Let's move on to question six. It has been submitted by Jevgeni Ossinovski, member of the Riigikogu, and Prime Minister Kaja Kallas responds. Subject: Electricity price. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U85	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Well, let's continue at the price of electricity. Firstly, some clarifications on the earlier response. You spoke about the limitations of this bill. There are no restrictions on the wood variety in the draft that Parliament is dealing with. I know you guys have been discussing this in different chambers, but there is no limit to this bill. There's no 500 gigawatt-hour limit per year, there isn't. In fact, according to the law, up to 2 million cubic metres can be driven to the oven and taken from the consumer. Now the second draft, which concerns the subsidization of 70 large companies in reducing renewable energy charges in such a way that it is paid by households and small businesses. This has nothing to do with the creation of new renewable energy capacities. As all other households will pay 40% more renewable energy fees, no additional renewable energy production equipment will come, with 70 large companies simply receiving cheaper electricity. So it just comes at the expense of domestic consumers, and that is why it is not fair. You said you didn't understand my reasoning. It is worth following Parliament's discussions, we had a very thorough discussion on energy on Monday. Indeed, it is important to announce new offers, which are currently planned, for 500 gigawatt-hours this year and next year. But the proposal I have made is that it should not be paid by the consumer, but actually come from the sale of the national quota revenue, which has gone beyond the forecast, due to higher CO2 prices. In fact, it would be possible to obtain in a perfectly correct, logical way the additional renewable energy capacity that we need, but not put this cost on consumers. Would you support such a solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U86	Thank you. First of all, I am sorry that I have not been able to observe your debate on energy issues. The agenda's pretty tight. But it's clear that if you suggest it, I'm asking you to find it. I did not claim that the renewable energy fee would decrease as a result of the reduction of the renewable energy fee for large consumers, that it would also decrease for small consumers. I argued that if consumption of large consumers increases, this will lead to lower network charges for small consumers, because more will be used and this emphasis in the collection will not be so out of proportion. As regards your idea of using the money from the sale of quota revenue to subsidise the electricity of small consumers, I must look at this proposal, I do not know what to comment on right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U87	The question to be specified. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U88	Yes, there are fewer offers that come, that is, new capacities to build from the consumer tariff not through the sale of renewable energy, but through the sale of quota revenue. In this way both objectives will be well achieved and the home consumer will receive, in the future, cheaper electricity when these renewable energy capacities are ready, but will not have to pay for it through their own tariff. This is the first thing you could do in the short term, but there are other things you can do in the short term if you want to think about it. Let's try it together. The electricity excise is part of the price of electricity, which, if I am not mistaken, according to the current plan, the average consumer will probably rise four times next year. May 1st, I don't remember exactly that date. In fact, given these high electricity prices, there have been reasonable calls for this increase, perhaps at the moment, not to be implemented, especially in view of the fact that the higher electricity price increases the revenue of the State through VAT revenue. So the state actually earns more from every consumer on VAT because the price of electricity is higher and it is more difficult for consumers, and then next spring, ordinary consumers will increase their electricity excise duty four more times. How do you feel, is it fair, reasonable, or maybe we can prevent this and that this additional, at least state-wide tax increase should not come up with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U89	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U90	Thank you. Firstly, by responding in advance to your colleague, I was able to get a little bit bumped up, it takes time. What are we gonna do? As I said, we have announced fewer offers to buy renewable energy. What's more, we're gonna do it in 2023. And the same thing that we are going to switch to renewable energy for electricity consumption in the public sector, which we want to do in order to launch the construction of renewable energy projects without support. Just because you have confidence as an entrepreneur that you have won this public procurement, you can build this capacity without having this support for renewable energy. Now I'm coming to the excise. You said four times. But this excise is now 1 euro. Indeed, before the COVID crisis, this excise duty was EUR 4,47. Now that the electricity exchange price is 150 euros, the transformation of the electricity excise does not have this effect in the big picture. Populistically, yes, if we say we're going to change the excise duty, but unfortunately it doesn't help much to reduce the price, because it's such a small part of the total price. In fact, we do not have to do anything directly with excise duties, because the previous government has taken a decision that these excise duties will rise back to pre-crisis levels in May 2022. This part of the excise duty, because we have also promised a tax peace, we must discuss it, but it just seems to me that, unfortunately, a quick solution to preventing an increase in the excise duty on electricity will not actually come to the price, so that it will have the same effect on the price as on other elements of the price.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U91	Thank you. Now, one more question. Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Listening to you guys, it looks like it's 150, so let's add five, and it's okay. This also sounds very well with the position of an electric businessman published in the media today. He says that as a title, the more expensive price of electricity is sound, but its impact on most households is certainly not lethal. That's what an electric businessman says. Almost your words. However, it still seems that, now and now, it is an acute problem for a large number of Estonian households. Especially for those whose living conditions depend on electricity and electricity consumption, domestic concerns, etc. Your previous recommendation in this hall to answer Indrek Saare's question was to contact local authorities for social assistance. It doesn't sound like a very caring crowd either. All these things you have been talking about now are the subject of the next, the next and the next year, but the problem is now and now. People are in trouble with their electricity bills. What, as your head of government, can you say now, what are you doing now and now to make life a little easier for people whose lives depend on electricity consumption?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U93	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U94	Thank you. There's no way I'm gonna tinkle this problem. Maybe you weren't in the hall when I answered Indrek Island's question. I admit that the increase in electricity prices is a major problem and is a major problem for many households. I absolutely agree with that. As far as electricity excise duties are concerned, we do not have to make any decision about electricity excise duties, it is done by the previous government, that it will rise from May to 2022. I did not say'social benefits', but I said that, in fact, underprivileged persons have the opportunity to receive support from local authorities to cope with the cost of electricity. It's also very need-based. You yourself refer to the fact that perhaps some households do not feel it as much as others do. In particular, those who suffer the most from this increase in electricity prices should be helped. However, I would stress that your colleague, Mr Ossinovski, also said that it is important to build these new production capacities and to motivate us to have more energy sources, as well as the diversity of energy sources, on the Estonian market. In the same way, we actually won that stock market price when it was lower. When we joined the Nordic electricity market, it is actually because the market is moving to where the cheapest electricity is, i.e. the price is shaped by the cheapest supplier in the market, the Estonian consumer also won. This is exactly our political distinction, because we are in different political parties. I do not believe that the state can regulate the price of electricity. I believe that the market actually offers people the best price that the previous years have shown.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U95	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U96	Let us move on to the seventh question posed by Helle-Moonika Helme. This is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, a member of the government, and the subject is vaccination. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U97	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I'm gonna try to be as gentle as possible so you don't get hurt or break again. In spring, as I understand it, a vaccination plan was put in place in the government, even a special high-paid person was hired next to Tanel Kiige, the vaccination manager, Marek Seer. But still, the rate of vaccination is what it is now. The saddest part is that it has become a matter for the government itself, just a number to report. And it's been able to do or fail as an indicator in the public eye. We are now in a situation where methods are being used to save the face of the government, which have already led us to some sort of legal nihilis. We have, in practice, come to the point that, although you yourself, as Prime Minister, repeatedly confirmed and confirmed by Tanel Kiik that there is no and will not be a forced vaccination, now in autumn the government will impose its own orders and regulations in every area precisely what we understand as a forced vaccination. If you call a wolf a bushville or a woodswolf, it doesn't really make a difference, the wolf will still be a wolf. Forced vaccination remains for compulsory vaccination and is illegal. Are you going to review your decisions in this light, too, given that at some point, however, you realise that you are drifting on thin ice from a legislative point of view, just at whatever cost, chasing this number and the percentage that, in the example of the rest of the world, in fact, when we look at other countries with high vaccinations, has proved that this does not give us any result on the COVID front that we have been waiting for so that we can open up society and return to a normal life?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U98	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U99	Thank you. Of course, the people behind these numbers are the people, they are the people of Estonia, and the people of Estonia who have been vaccinated in one dose are 741877. These people are different in different age groups. As I said in answering your colleague's question, it has become more difficult to convince people. As a result, in addition to these general possibilities, vaccination can be carried out in vaccination buses, in vaccination ambulances, and can be carried out with employers. We now also have a motivating interview, or people will be called one by one, to understand specifically the fears of these people and whether these fears can be overcome or whether there are adequate answers to these fears. People who have not, for example, received enough information also have doubts-suspects. I'm not saying that these fears are unfounded or just that don't be afraid. When people are afraid, you have to understand what they're afraid of and if there's any way we can take these fears down. For many, this cannot be done, and they stand firm because they are basically anti-vaccinating, while for others they can. As I said earlier, we had basically three options to respond to the situation we have with COVID. I believe you agree with me that all people are tired of this COVID situation. They're tired of the fact that society has to be locked and then loose, tired of all this. Responsible people are also tired of not all people being responsible and, as a result, they have to limit themselves. So far, most have had to limit themselves to protect the minority. But since the minority still has the opportunity to defend itself, the more the majority wonders why we have to restrict our freedoms. I may not be much a fan of your husband's talent, but he said the golden words on March 30th: "... Arrogantly whistling at everything, well, sooner or later it will take revenge on society as a whole, but also on those same whistlers. Yeah, first we warn, first we try to talk nicely. .. But... who doesn't want to listen, it has to feel... And we do not hesitate to use force in the sense that we then use coercive methods.. when it comes to people who obviously ignore their responsibilities and abuse their rights.. a person is as big a pig as being allowed to be."
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U100	The question to be specified. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U101	Yeah, there's no comment here. But it is very good that you said the word 'convincing' in relation to vaccination, which leads us to another legal problem that came out very clearly this summer. In the second half of the summer, when the vaccination process, which gave your statistics priority, was stalled, Irja Lutsar, a member of the scientific council, said that now the propaganda machine must be fully operational. And that's what they did. The Ministry of Social Affairs and the Health Insurance Fund started advertising, offering children and young people the chance to win iPhone after vaccination. There were also movie tickets, all kinds of snacks and benefits, even 5 euros of ice cream on the vaccination bus. This was brought to the attention of the Agency and the Agency's specific position was that the vaccine is a medicine, legally on the same stick as the prescription medicine, and no one should be inclined to receive the medicine by raffling or offering any benefits. After that, we didn't see the propaganda that was so direct to vaccinate, it was pulled back. But my question is, didn't the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Health Insurance Fund and everyone else know they were breaking the law, and who should be responsible for it? Has any official investigation started, and is it even meant to do what they did with the violations of the law, or is it the government again that ups happened, what the hell?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U102	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U103	Thank you. In order to inform people that there is a possibility of vaccination, the country must certainly do so and all channels must be used for this. Secondly, the state must certainly inform people of everything that is involved in the vaccination, to answer the questions that people have. This is all part of the information process. As a country, we have not offered any benefits. All we've offered is that people can vaccinate for free. I would point out that vaccination against influenza, for example, is not free of charge, as doctors are very much recommending, but the COVID vaccine is free of charge. As a country, we have not made any additional offers, nothing like that. If the private sector, which understands that it does not want to go back to prison, and does whatever it takes to ensure that society is open, calls for vaccination in its own, I don't know, shops, does no campaigns for it, there is no way that the state can prohibit it. As a country, we have not offered any additional services or products.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U104	Now, one more question. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U105	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! Since the vaccine is also infected with COVID and therefore there is a likelihood of further transmission of the infection, the government is lying if it continues to send messages that vaccination can control the spread of the virus. You can't. In this light, why do you need to prove that you have a vaccine or a defect? What does this knowledge give us apart from the fact that a person has been vaccinated or suffering from a disease? Where does that make sense? But on the basis of your earlier response, I ask you exactly how much vaccination reduces the likelihood of the disease being more easily affected or not infected. How many percent is that, and where can research and statistics be found on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U106	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U107	Thank you. First of all, there is the difference: people who get infected and people who get sick as a result of infection. Indeed, it is true that vaccinated people are also infected, but the scientific council has assured us that, in any case, they carry the virus less, because there are just fewer particles in their breath, so it is more difficult to spread the virus. Not all infected people get sick, there's a difference. I'm afraid I don't have those numbers here right now. I'm simply trying to restore what's been presented to us in the government, and I can send you this information separately, as far as I can remember, it also depends very much on the age group, which is the probability of going to the hospital. But if I remember correctly, in the first wave, over 12% of the people who got infected, in the second wave, it was 7%, and now, in the third wave, it's 0.3%. This shows this decline. But I'm gonna make a clause here that I'm telling you by memory right now. I'll send you this information separately. This clearly shows that the decrease in [last] waves is still several times smaller, and also how hard these people are suffering. Therefore, the Scientific Advisory Panel proposed to change the risk matrix. We had two criteria, one was deaths and the other was the proportion of people infected, but now people in the hospital and the proportion of people infected. That's precisely because it's actually the correlation, because there's just a lot less deaths than there was in the past. But I'll send you this information.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U108	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U109	Let us move on to question nine. It has been presented by Reuben Kaalep, which is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. The topic is the preservation of Estonianhood. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U110	Prime Minister! The Estonian Constitution obliges us to commit to the preservation of the Estonian nation, language and culture in this country, and from this noble goal, the activities of all governments should also be included. However, the last time I asked you about the preservation of Estonianhood, you answered me this way: "How do you even define these ethnic Estonians? Or how do you identify who is ethnic Estonian?" [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] "I don't know, when I look at you, you're not blonde and blue eyes either. Are you still ethnic Estonian?" And now, following the word: as an undisputed blond and blue-eyed specimen, who does not have to go to the Estonian gene estate to prove your origin, you are certainly competent to answer questions about national politics. So please, what measures is the Government of the Republic planning to take to ensure that Estonians remain a majority nation in their own country in the context of increasing migration and other demographic processes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U111	I keep asking for that respect, right now, by the questioners, towards the government! Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U112	Thank you. I would point out that I do not classify people as the right Estonians and the wrong Estonians. It was on your question that only ethnic Estonians should live in Estonia and others should not. My question to you was how you identify an ethnic Estonian. My great-grandmother, for example, is Latvian. Am I ethnic Estonian or am I not? The same question was for you. What was I gonna say with that question? This is actually not right, we have a number of [such] people in Estonia, Estonia is a country of Estonian citizens and they are ethnically... I don't know how you can identify it. There has been a country where nationalities were identified and then marked. How did it end? Not very successful. I very much hope that we will not do this in Estonia in any way, that we say that one Estonian or an animal in Estonia, an Estonian citizen, is somehow a better person than any other. I don't think that's right. Of course, the principle enshrined in the Constitution for the preservation of Estonian language, culture and nationality is important for everyone in this Chamber. It's just as important to me. That is why we are taking different steps in this direction, whether it be the creation of an education system in Estonian, the progressive implementation of this plan, so that there are more people in Estonia who consider Estonia to be their home, speak Estonian and hold Estonian culture. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Is...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U113	I called at the time because there was a noise in the hall. Prime Minister, if you wish, you can continue to answer, there is more than a minute left. No, I don't. Got it. Now, the question to be specified. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U114	Yes, Madam Prime Minister, you see, I can also give examples of history with pleasure. I wasn't born during the singing revolution, you were already. But I know about the writings, speeches and songs of the time, which was one of the main problems for many Estonians at the time. For example, the phosphorite war was fought for two reasons: one was that Estonia's natural environment was at risk; the other was that the Estonians' survival as a majority nation in their own country was at risk. Just like it is now. Why was the share of Estonians at risk? I'll answer for you. This was at risk due to the mass immigration of migrant workers into Estonia. Do I understand correctly from your previous answer that the worries of that time, which were at the heart of many Estonians during the singing revolution, are no longer the concerns of the current government?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U115	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U116	Thank you. Yes, during the singing revolution, this was indeed a situation where migration was used as a tool against Estonia. In some ways the same way... Maybe not exactly the same, but there is a parallel to the way Belarus currently uses migration as a tool in a hybrid attack on Lithuania, Latvia and Poland. This situation is in no way comparable to today's situation, where, first of all, we have our own country, we decide who we allow here, under what conditions we allow these people here, which rules must be applied here, which rules and which culture to respect. This control is in the hands of the Estonian state and there is no mass immigration, just as people may have been brought to Estonia in the eighties, after all. You can't put an equal sign between these two times.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U117	Now, one more question. Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U118	Thanks for the word! My supplementary question is a bit of a drag with your answer, as if I had known your answer in advance. It's like this. You see, according to Statistics Estonia last year, 1000 Estonians left Estonia more than they arrived in Estonia. And there were nearly 5,000 people in Estonia, mostly from the eastern Slavic countries, Asia and Africa, more than they left. Migration was almost as high as in the 1980s. If this situation continues, we would have fewer Estonians around the town of Võru in ten years' time than now, if the birth rate continues below the recovery level, perhaps even Kuressaare or Haapsalu or Rakvere, but more new immigrants in Pärnu. Indirect data show that this situation is getting worse. According to recent data from the PBA, 19000 foreigners have been granted temporary work permits, and we also have 9,000 foreigners with temporary work permits. Your government removed the previous government's draft immigration regulation, and the coalition voted down a similar draft to the EKRE in the spring. The question is this: is the government not going to regulate such large-scale immigration in any way or do something about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U119	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U120	We have clear rules, we even have quotas that can come to Estonia. Your question itself was that they are temporary work permits. Temporary means that it has been granted temporarily, which means that when the work permit ends, the right to stay in Estonia will also be lost. He must leave, just like all those people who do not have a permit to stay in Estonia. So, in this sense, there is no mass migration in Estonia at the moment. What do I mean, what do we do? First of all, we are working with Latvia, Lithuania and Poland to keep this border if Belarus really wants to send people to our side as part of a hybrid attack. We are working together precisely to prevent this illegal migration. We have different procedures for granting permits, people's background is checked for who can come here and who can't come here. So, actually, we have these rules in place. But I want to stress that Estonia is a small country, and thanks to the open economy, we also have economic growth, because we do not really close ourselves. We have 1.3 million people, and we also need to be associated with other countries, precisely so that we can support our Estonian language and culture, theatres, cinemas, film, everything we are going to talk about in the budgetary framework. This is all because when the economy works, taxes are collected, we can afford it all. This is because our economic partners are doing well too, and it is because we are open.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U121	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U122	Let's move on to question 10. It has been presented by Mart Helme, a member of the Riigikogu, and it is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, a member of the government, and the topic is to undermine the state's defence capabilities. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U123	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! When you answered the previous question, you showed a clear incompetence and a lack of knowledge of the facts. Got it! But I also dare to do a vicious sting: your government's bad economic policy was right now you are living off the fruits of the previous government, but soon, of course, these fruits will probably run out of theirs, causing a situation where we are no longer wanted to come as much as we have so far. But let's come to my question. My question again concerns the issue of vaccination. We have heard very brave exclamations from the Commander of the Defence Forces that all unvaccinated will be forced out of the Defence Forces. We have received information that it has reached the end of the Defence League, which concerns the Defence League, who is in one, another or third way in a contractual relationship with the Defence Forces and whose contracts are threatened to be terminated if they do not allow for forced vaccination. All of them together are not a marginal number of people. Even if it is only 10% of the people in the Defence Forces and the Defence League, it is still a very serious blow to our trained vitality and a highly dermatological and wasteful attitude towards specialists trained in their respective educational institutions, who have often also received cross-sections in Afghanistan, Iraq and elsewhere. Do you not think that such a condescending, derogatory policy that deters people from defence forces is directly damaging Estonia's defence capabilities in today's international situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U124	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U125	Thank you. First of all, there will be no compulsory vaccination in the Estonian Defence Forces. As I said earlier, we in the government adopted a regulation on biological hazards, which gives every employer the opportunity to carry out a risk analysis at their workplace, and precisely whether carrying the virus or spreading the virus complicates the work processes, whether more people are being infected. Indeed, when this risk analysis was carried out, the Defence Forces found that over 90% of defence personnel, workers, have been vaccinated. The work of the Defence Forces is very much actually done in groups, they are in contact with each other. I'll ask you back. If, I don't know, in groups, the militia get sick, is the defenses stronger or weaker? I'm saying that when people get sick, the defenses are definitely not stronger. I would like to draw attention to a few other aspects. If Estonian soldiers go on foreign missions, then the assumption is that they have vaccines against certain diseases, and then these defence forces will do the vaccination. In any case, there are different measures in which work in the Defence Forces can be reorganized. Release is definitely the last measure. But if the risk is that entire regiments in the Defence Forces are going out of line because they're getting sick, it certainly won't do any good to the defense.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U126	Please, a more specific question, Mart Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U127	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Firstly, there are no regiments in Estonia; this was the first time in the Republic of Estonia when we had regiments. Right now we have battalions. As regards vaccination on mission, first of all, the mission is voluntary, second of all, vaccines that have survived the test of time, which have proved their performance over the decades and that they have no side effects. You can't say that about current vaccines. So much for your answer. Go on. It's possible to reorganize. That's what I say about risk analysis. The risk analysis option has been provided. It seems to me that it is treated below as an obligation. If it is accepted as an undertaking, it is incorrect and is essentially illegal. So it is very important to note, too, that if this risk analysis is to be carried out and, on the basis of a risk analysis, to put people to the point of fact whether you are giving yourself an injection or you have to go away, it is illegal action. When implemented by the government and government agencies, the government violates the law of the Republic of Estonia and the constitutional rights of citizens. This is unacceptable. I ask you to answer the question whether the government understands that such a policy is causing tens of people, but perhaps hundreds of people, to feel that, because of such a government, we do not want to protect the country, we do not want to protect the country under such a government. I have already heard such bitter remarks and this is an extremely serious sign of danger.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U128	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U129	Thank you. Firstly, all medicines, all vaccines have side effects, the question is simply how frequent and how dangerous these side effects are. Of course, as I said before, there are fears and answers to them. Now, risk analysis. The risk analysis obligation has been in force since 1999. Since that year, businesses, employers, are obliged to carry out a risk analysis. The only thing that the current government added was that we changed the regulation on biological hazards, that is, what risks the employer must take into account. Previously, the epidemiological situation was not the risk, but the risk was, for example, whether people could fall or be harmed by other means. The employer has had to comply with such obligations at all times. The regulation on biological hazards simply provides an opportunity to assess health safety and infectiousness in the context of this risk assessment. As I said, this risk analysis itself does not say how the work should be organised. On the basis of this risk assessment, the employer can itself assess whether he can reorganize his work in such a way that people do not spread the infection and whether the spread of the infection, either between the workers themselves or between the customers or the people they are exposed to, is such a risk that the employer's activities can be completely stopped. That's the risk assessment the Commander of the Defence Forces has done. Last comment. I want to say that the Defence Forces do not protect the Estonian government, the Defence Forces defend the Estonian people. You may be surprised, but among the Estonian people are those who support the EKRE and those who support the Reform Party, the Fatherland, the Social Democrats. This means that if the government is run by any political party that has been elected by law, it may not appeal to all defence forces because they have different political preferences. But the Defence Forces still protect the Estonian people, and there is no hesitation here; there is no hesitation in the Defence Forces.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U130	Now, one more question. Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U131	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! I'm going to go into this risk analysis a little bit more detail. I understand when the head of a nursing home appreciates that he cannot keep carers at work who are unvaccinated, because there is a really great risk that those elderly people who are at risk will die if they work there. However, as far as I know, there has been one serious incident that has ended in the hospital, and one similar incident with the COVID among the Allied soldiers throughout this period. In the Defence Forces, there are not people in active service who are over 60 years old, everyone has had a health check. That's the question, is this risk analysis quite adequate? During the War of Independence, the [world] Spanish flu ravaged, about 100 million died, and we fought nonetheless. Both sides fought virtually sick in the Mountain-Karabakh War because they simply had no choice. On the basis of this risk assessment (10% of 3000 is 300, 5% is 150, even 3% is close to 100), is the loss that could potentially arise worth the risk that, I am actually afraid, the Commander of the Defence Forces has not quite adequately assessed? How do you rate it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U132	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U133	Yes, I agree with you that, first of all, this risk assessment is carried out not by the Riigikogu, not by the government, but by every employer in his workplace. The result of this risk assessment is what you indicated that there is a real risk to the lives and health of these people in a nursing home. In the Defence Forces, it seems to me, there are young strong men who are more like good health, and we also have rules that people who have been vaccinated do not have to go into self-insulation, and if more than 90% have been vaccinated, then this risk is considerably lower. If you're asking for my personal position, I don't think it's right to be fired on the basis of what I know there are young healthy men there. But, as far as I know, this has not been done, it is one possible measure, but it does not have to be done, it is not an obligation if the work can be reorganized. We are not going to do this to any employer [obligation]. If there is any doubt that what the employer says is too harsh a measure, then people have the right to go to court. I think the court can assess whether this was necessary and justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U134	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. I thank all the members of the government for their answers, I thank the members of the Riigikogu for their questions. Question Time is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U135	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Wednesday session of the first working week of the VI plenary session. The members of the Riigikogu now have the opportunity to hand over drafts and questions. Please! That's not what you want. Then we'll conduct a presence check. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U136	83 members of the Riigikogu registered.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U137	Ladies and gentlemen, Our agenda yesterday was not fully discussed, so the items on yesterday's agenda were postponed to today. The discussion of the Riigikogu's decision on the establishment of the Riigikogu Investigation Committee in April 2021 to explain the legality and proportionality of the police operation in the centre of Tallinn, as submitted by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, remained. In the Riigikogu's speech chair, Martin Helme was welcome back here, and the order of speech was... [[It's ringing the bell.]] The queue of the questioners that was left behind yesterday was: Henn Põlluaas, Paul Puustusmaa, Rene Kokk, Peeter Ernits, Kalle Grünthal. That's how it's been restored by now. So, next up, please, Henn Põllamaas!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U138	Thank you. Honourable waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U139	Excuse me, Mr. Pier. I'll interrupt for a second. Ladies and gentlemen, on one side and on the other! Whoever has something to discuss with each other, do it outside this room so we can have a debate here. Mr. Fieldace, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U140	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I would like to ask you about the very events of March this year, when the riot police, dogs, etc. were brought up against peaceful demonstrators. The Director-General of the PBA Vaher and also the Minister of the Interior, Jaani, reported that they relied on both the Kapo threat assessment and the Health Board risk assessment, according to which there was a threat to constitutional order and did not know everything about it. We've seen and read these threat assessments. Those claims were wrong, they weren't true. But no conclusion was drawn from this, nor did the Prime Minister support them both. How do you think this committee of inquiry would be able to highlight this positive result here, and can such people continue in such high positions at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U141	Thank you. Yeah, one of the reasons why I think this committee is needed, or what we think it is, is that the whole chain of events has been accompanied by a lie to the public and also to the Riigikogu. In fact, if we had a normal political culture, indeed a number of people who lied to the Riigikogu and the public should have lost their jobs a long time ago. In particular, the director general of the police, Vaher, and the Minister of the Interior, Jaani, lied on several occasions and there were several different lies. Starting with the fact that there was a threat assessment by the kapo that said there was a threat to constitutional order. That's the threat assessment I've read, and there was no such statement. When the lie was revealed, something about the Health Board's threat assessment began to be said. The Director-General of the Health Board reported to us in the group and rejected it and sent his threat assessment. This threat assessment did not specifically refer to the events unwound during those days, but was much more general and abstract, talked about the health situation that existed at that time and about what circumstances could have made the situation worse. So, on the basis of these two threat assessments, a decision was taken to use the power that was used and tried to convince both the public and the Riigikogu that there were some secret documents somewhere that we could not show you, and, oh, if you only knew how ugly it all was, you would understand that we acted perfectly. Appropriate behaviour was not exercised and its inadequate behaviour to cover up or justify after the public and the Riigikogu were lied to. Yesterday, there was a question here about why we have not carried out any other parliamentary oversight procedures. But we did. We have invited all the people mentioned above to the group, we have asked questions on these issues, we have asked these questions in Question Time, we have been dragging this debate to the public. Of course, it would have been our wish to make a motion of distrust, but there was no one outside our group who would have liked to come along with it. So we failed to present it. In a normal country, both Vaher and Jaan should have resigned. I can calmly say that if this opportunity ever comes, they will definitely have to be removed from office.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U142	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U143	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! I have the interesting impression that the liberal dictatorship, by its very nature, is using all such possibilities, knowing which phenomena may restrict its power, in order to create all kinds of obstacles so that the same measures that they have ever brought to power could not break them. In this sense, they turn society around. But now again, speaking of threat assessments, I am delighted that you said that we have seen these threat assessments, including this threat assessment, which was called a threat assessment of constitutional order. It's an extremely powerful expression. You said you've seen this threat assessment, and you didn't see it there. Didn't you see the threat assessment, the threat or the threat to constitutional order that you didn't see?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U144	Yeah, well, it's a document covered by a secret stamp. The nature of this document should probably be described a little. It was, as later turned out, not a specific threat assessment specifically given to these events, but essentially a routine review, which the kapo wrote to a number of government members who would receive these security reviews. In some part of this threat assessment, attention had been paid to the popular mindset and the risks it poses. Really, I can't tell you what it said, because then I could get a state secret leak on my collar and I'd definitely start working right now. But I can tell you what wasn't there. Indeed, there was no indication that there was a threat to constitutional order. I'm sure it didn't say that. Well, yes, there was public order, but public order is a little different. Of course, from there on, the extremely embarrassing wrestling took place with the document itself. When we had repeatedly talked about a secret, separate threat assessment, we began to ask and investigate and to ask that we also see what it says. It turned out then that this had long been received by the Riigikogu Security Authority Monitoring Committee, but our group member had not been shown this, even though he was specifically on the list of addressees. So this is a farce that we have under the supervision of the so-called security authorities in the Riigikogu. The supervision of the Kapo Commission is not supervision, it is a simulation of supervision. Even a member of the opposition party will not be given a [document] unless he himself goes specifically to ask. I specifically asked the Director-General of the Defense Police what the document was so that I would know to look. Then we finally found out what it was, when it came to the house, and where we could get it. Until then, there was a fool's play: never seen, never heard, never came. This is extremely embarrassing. However, in addition to being exceptionally embarrassing, it is an extremely serious warning that we do not actually have civil supervision or parliamentary supervision of these security authorities through the Committee on Security Authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U145	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U146	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Yeah, I also assure you that this surveillance threat assessment, which has been repeatedly suggested here that there was a threat to constitutional order, is not true, it does not come out of nowhere. But I have also noted in the past one of the most worrying tendencies in our national administrations. It is very easy for our officials, rather than looking for a solution to citizens' concerns, to say that they will go to court if they do not like it. At meetings with the Minister for the Interior, the sentence that was said very lightly on several occasions was that if people who were being treated in a van there [the question] did not like it, they should go to court. How do you feel about the situation we're in today? Very lightly, our leaders, [doing] for the state's money, send people into poverty to go to court against the state. How do you feel about this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U147	Yes, it did sound many times at these various meetings. The public interviews also said that, oh, we have the rule of law and if no one likes the fine he received, he can challenge it. A lot of people have challenged it. By the way, the majority of the appeals that have now entered the judicial phase have led to the result that the police actually imposed a fine unjustly, and those fines have been lifted. But this mentality, of course, is that the process is punishment. After all, we know about Estonia, and we know about the trials that last for years and years. We also know that every hour in court proceedings costs 150 euros in the middle. A normal person, whether he is a music teacher or a pensioner, or I don't know, no matter what, even a wealthy person, can't afford to go to court with the state for years. The saying that you should go to court is, in fact, a double penalty: first we will fine you and then we will punish you by dealing with you for months or years, giving you several times more costs in terms of legal expenses, state fees and all other things. In fact, in the case of courts, it's more or less that there's a fifty-sixty, and you never know what the result is. So that saying is, I think, a little bit more fun for people who were hurt anyway. We know these remarkable stories when a man was put in a van and forced there to take himself naked in front of strangers. In retrospect, it is claimed that we suspected that he had hidden weapons, or [whispered] does not know what kind of bullshit. What good is it if you don't get a fine after any months or longer in court, but you've been humiliated, your human dignity has been humiliated, your freedom of conscience has already been limited, and you can't get it back. It is not the court's intention to restore it and to go to claim compensation is even more expensive than simply to demand the annulment of the fine. Yes, this mentality that the process is a punishment and we delight you to bend the process on top of the punishment, is not a proper attitude in a country that we would like to have just as the rule of law, a fair country where politicians are not the boss of the people, but the people are still the boss of politicians. What we saw during the April events is a symptom of deep and serious problems. That is why we should treat it much more in the public domain and also identify the perpetrators, punish them and change something. That's the purpose of the whole thing we're doing here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U148	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U149	Good manager! Good waitress! Yeah, well, at least I'm pretty clear on that general picture. But I wouldn't draw that kind of conclusions, wouldn't say who should be punished, let go, etc. These should be the conclusions of this committee of inquiry. But one of the main arguments against the creation of this committee is the same thing that it is fucking expensive, 100,000 and so on. At the same time, as a member of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, I see millions flying unscrupulously. But if you divide it into 100,000 years, the moon will be 8333. My question to you is, can't we sort this out in three months? Twenty-four thousand would cost, save money, and we would be able to calmly with everyone as the Commission has, from each group to make clear what actually happened.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U150	Thank you. We put in the draft in spring and then there was (and I will tell you what date we offered) that it should come to fruition by 1 June 2022. Perhaps it was calculated that it would work for a year, no longer. If we do him later this year, he'll be working for six months. Yeah, it's possible to discuss everything in six months. It's not that much. There are some documents that the Riigikogu can claim or request access to, which we have now only been able to look at individually, these are the same red-stamped papers. It is possible to invite some people to a hearing. Based on this, you can put this picture together. I agree, of course, that, until this committee of inquiry has examined and assessed these facts, we cannot say in a specific way that one or the other person was responsible for any general responsibility or specific responsibility. That's what this committee of inquiry is for. But 100,000 doesn't cost anyway, 100,000 would be an annual cost. When we are talking about half a year, we are talking about an amount of 50000. This money, as a member of the Riigikogu's board, I can say, is now in the budget. After all, as we know, during the previous coalition, there were two additional special committees, one of which was abolished and the money remained in the budget. So there's no money left behind. Indeed, 50000 euros, or also 100000 euros, are not even in terms of the Riigikogu's own budget, something that would bankrupt us, much less in terms of the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U151	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U152	Thank you. Dear waitress, I happen to be the person who went to defend this bill in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and Kristian Jaani was there. I asked why some things were very badly violated. I had a video of a very large number where some face-coated citizen wearing a black uniform pulls people out, calls in, and the police are watching it all, even though the rules under the law of law still require the introduction of such cases if any violations occur. Kristian Jaani said nicely that no, we did a very thorough investigation. I asked why you were afraid of this committee of inquiry, which is strange to me. Do I have the right idea that the administration of the police department wants to get rid of responsibility or to retain the possibility of illegally suppressing the people's protests again?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U153	Thank you. Yeah, it's a separate subject, which also came up a lot, that such things have never been seen in Estonia before. There was some kind of thimble game with uniforms and marks on the uniforms, but there was a number one day instead, and everything else, with a vest with a mark on it, and some sort of tactical uniform on it. It was embarrassing on the one hand, of course, but on the other hand, the purpose of all this activity was to anonymize those workers who so-called people and sow fear. After all, the real purpose of this whole operation was to spread fear so that people would not have to express their minds. And it was relatively successful. This is one of the reasons why we must react very sharply to it, so that such behaviour will no longer be undertaken in the future, so that both the leadership of any agency and people at political level will know that if this is done, then it will be followed by a very painful response, and this reaction will be more painful than the political benefits that it thought it would be. We all understand this political benefit: today's government needed to be suppressed and disbanded as quickly as possible by a demonstration that criticised today's government and which grew every day. I repeat, he was peaceful, he was peaceful all the time, but he grew up every day, and somewhere it was decided that he couldn't be allowed to continue growing. There is no doubt that, as a result of police behaviour, the government achieved its goal, the demonstrations were stopped within a few days. So the creation of this climate of fear and the very questionable and, in my opinion, illegal measures needed to implement it are what we should identify in the Commission and take specific decisions, if necessary, some legislative changes or sanctions against those who then took the decisions. That's so we don't get any more of this happening again.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U154	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U155	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Would the incoming Committee of Inquiry also have the power to call on persons directly involved in these events in April, officials? In this case, who else would need to be drawn in addition to the Minister of the Interior and the Director General? Who would be the persons who could be found responsible on the basis of their statements, for example, could they include persons with a classified post?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U156	Thank you. Yes, the Riigikogu Committee of Inquiry is the most powerful of the special committees of the Riigikogu; it has the right to summon and take statements from people. Of course, the other half of this coin is that there is no sanction if people don't come. The Riigikogu does not declare anyone wanted or can apply for coercion. But basically, according to the law, you have the right to summon and interrogate people. Yeah, well, some people are already branded here, and I'm sure they should be invited. But I think it's wrong to lock this list today, because maybe it's necessary, for example, [to call in] some middle-level policeman to give an overview of what kind of orders you came in, what kind of instructions. Police are a hierarchical organization, orders come from above, tells us why they are done, when they are done, how they are done. Such statements would probably be needed to cross-check the version of superiors, how, when and what happened. Undoubtedly, the officials of the Health Board would need more to speak their version and, of course, from the political decision-making side. Since the Kapo threat assessment was at some stage such a central character throughout this operation, I suppose there might be a real need to invite them too, so that they could even give a description of how they would have risk assessments, when and to whom they sent and whether they were more involved, or whether it was the only role they played on the paper of the threat assessment. Of course, I think we need to know.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U157	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U158	Thank you for allowing me to ask you a question. Dear waitress, This draft for the establishment of the Committee of Inquiry was adopted by the EKRE Group on 21 April. Before it was decided that this committee should be set up, a series of meetings took place with those who could be responsible for this demonstration of power, but whose statements by the EKRE Group did not convince the EKRE Group that this was not a violation of constitutional rights. Now my question is whether it would be possible, in the interests of background, to describe with whom these meetings took place and what conclusions could be drawn from their answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U159	Yeah. We had several meetings. We had meetings with the Minister of the Interior, if I remember correctly, several times. We had a meeting with the Police Director-General Vaher. We had a meeting with Head of the Health Department, Lanno. I think we had a meeting with the Prime Minister. There were more topics, but it was also one topic. All these questions came up at these meetings. We started by asking who gave the order. Then we started pointing fingers at each other. The Prime Minister confirmed that he did not participate in the decision-making process. The Minister of the Interior didn't say so directly, but in general, this responsibility was pushed down somewhere, that the police would choose their own tactics, decide for themselves, etc. The main counter-question of our group was that if, at one point, the police decide that these constitutional rights are not of interest and that they do what they want, whether or not you will not intervene. It doesn't bother the Minister of the Interior, does it bother the Prime Minister? At what stage do you think this problem is your problem, not the Director-General's? There it was also put to the prefect that Tallinn Prefect was the one who decided. This round game was played a lot. Now let's look at the substance of our bill. In fact, we still need to find out who decided what to do, who agreed what to do, who informed who to go up and down. This dispersal of responsibility or the imposition of blame on others was an ongoing issue at these meetings, of course, also the provision of conflicting information. They told me when some information got somewhere, but then it turned out that the information had actually gotten there sooner. They told me I didn't know anything, they reported to me afterwards, but then it turned out to be an early report. They said I was reported, but I didn't give any orders, so it turned out they were still giving orders. So the stories that different people told us didn't add up at all. This is, I think, a very serious problem, because how can we trust the police, how can we trust the Minister of the Interior, how can we trust the Prime Minister when they just go to the poetry group? There's a lot of talk about trust in politics, but it's actually a pretty specific thing. If you can't believe what the head of the police department is telling you, if you already know in advance that what the Minister of the Interior is telling you just isn't true, he's just telling you about the legendary stuff, how can the public, how can Parliament trust these people in their job? This is actually a problem that is unresolved. My answer is you can't trust me. If we have pathological liars or even hobby liars who, due to circumstances, get the wrong finger out easy, then we cannot let it turn into normality in Estonian politics.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U160	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U161	Thank you. Good Martin! The shit you've been doing here for the second day, I don't know what to say. You know very well that there was no violence. There were policemen, there was no violence. The only incident you've brought out specifically was that someone was teaching Kert Kingo to make a left turn in front of the house. It's not violence. But if you really want to do this committee of inquiry to investigate something that didn't exist, I'd suggest a subject that could be investigated. I saw several times when EKRE members Kalle and Helle ran with the buns from our buffet to the demonstrators. The slope was even on the pictures. I'd like to ask who paid for these buns and pies. Maybe it was the cost of representing the second vice-president of the Riigikogu, or maybe it was the payer's EKRE group. Who paid? That might be what this committee of inquiry is looking into. Unless you tell me right now that we took that money off that cost line and paid for it. And whoever pays will also order music, as well as well known.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U162	Thank you. You can always write a bill and hand it over to a committee of inquiry. You can even propose an amendment to this bill if you want. It certainly didn't go out of the representation expenses of my vice-chairman, and it certainly didn't go out of the expenses. But you can go to the cafeteria and ask for what money those pies were bought for. I can't answer that. Nor do I see any problem with the members of the Riigikogu taking pies to the people in front of the house. Rather, I thought it was a beautiful gesture.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U163	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U164	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I would like to comment in a few words: Mr Randpere still does not understand where something has happened, but there is a very diligent distributor of fiction. Now to my subject. Police intervention must be proportionate to the potential threat to which he is going. That's clear. Cello, tinmannerg and posters are certainly not dangerous, so dangerous that special equipment, including weapons-equipped law enforcement units, should be sent against them. No matter how Minister Jaan or Police Director-General Vaher has tried to justify police behaviour, it was obviously a false tactic, overreaction and, in fact, a demonstration of power. It is not and cannot be the task of the police to intimidate ordinary citizens who express their senses peacefully, to show their power. I understand that the committee of inquiry planned to follow these principles and values and to monitor them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U165	Thank you. Well, anyway, I want to point out that we're not here to scold some private police officers. They were following orders. We deal with the masters and with those who gave these orders, on the basis of what information was co-ordinated, for what purpose and whether these orders were lawful or not legal. That's important, because I would draw a line here from April to Haeska. If there's a mentality in force structures that we don't have brakes, we'll do what we want, then Haeska's shootings will take place every once in a while. I don't want to live in a country like this, I don't want to be a citizen in a situation where I'm afraid of a cop. Well, I don't want to. It was in Soviet times that when people saw the police, the first thought was that as long as I wasn't gonna get laid now or that I didn't do anything wrong. I don't want it. I want it to be exactly as we've had so-called normal, and in general, there's still a policeman to be there for a man, to help him. If we do not stand decisively against this appalling mentality in the leadership, we will move in the opposite direction. This cannot be allowed, it simply cannot be allowed. So, of course, there was a demonstration of power. Yeah, Randper's right, no one was identified with bruises, right, no one was shot this time, not even the dogs were blazing at anyone, unlike Ansip ruled Tartu. But it wasn't necessary because it was a psychologically scary operation, a show of power. Exactly what Kert Kingo has just said: disproportionate to what took place on the streets, unjustified and disproportionate. For this reason alone, it should not have been allowed to happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U166	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U167	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Obviously, this committee is needed. This Commission is needed because we see that our current political system has completely collapsed. In essence, we do not have civil control, and the ruling Clik of cartel parties envisages that this should be the case. We can't imagine this being the case. We do not agree to slip into such a liberal totalitarianism. But there's one more moment. This is where the Kremlin is constantly stamped onto all the demonstrations on the street: the Kremlin has organized, the Kremlin's trolls are involved and, of course, EKRE belongs to the Kremlin trolls. I believe that this committee should find out very clearly what the links with the Kremlin were, or if there is someone who has participated in these demonstrations. Since the Director-General of the Special Branch has said that they have not identified this, I think that one of the Commission's objectives is also to prosecute the distributors of this slander.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U168	Thank you. Yeah, it's kind of tired, I wouldn't even say a slogan, but a propaganda record that's still being spun, that anyone who doesn't agree to submit to a liberal dictatorship is somehow a Putin henchman. No, it's not. If you're standing up for a traditional marriage, that doesn't mean you're an agent of Putin. Or if you stand up for freedom of expression, it is particularly grotesque to talk about being a Kremlin agent because we know what it's like in Russia with freedom of expression. For us not to do what is the case in Russia or Belarus with freedom of expression or demonstration, that is what the Commission needs so that we do not slip there. Just a comment. After all, we all remember that when the Conservative People's Party was in government, what humour went on about how we are a threat to democracy and that we intend to introduce some kind of, I don't know, protofascist regime. Not once while we were in the government, no protests were scattered, even during the Coronary period, when these hampelmanns were out there in front of Stenbock's house, and in front of the super ministry, they made their circus cakes and everything. Never disbanded. There were few of them too, of course, aren't you, that's what you're harassing half a dozen people, but there was no danger, there was no point. The comparison again: while you, Mart, were the Minister of the Interior and the shooting of Lihula took place, Lihula's shooter was on the fleas of the Special Forces, but he was not executed on the ground, because the state, the normal rule of law, does not execute sentences on the ground or execute executions but brings people to justice. But look, now Haskas, an old cop in Jan was shot by a man because he was waving a stick, not shooting people, but waving a stick. Absolutely a cardinal difference. The myth that the Liberals are saying about themselves, and the myth they're saying about the Conservatives, after all, in real life, has been shattered over the last few years. But they still do. Come on, come on, come on, come on!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U169	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U170	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! In this evening's paper, describing this event on April 11, it has been claimed that the riot police and the dogs came into order. But we know, and we've seen in the news what happened there. This has not been confirmed either by the representatives of the power structures or, in fact, by anyone, by the fact that there was such a situation or threat to constitutional order that there had to be some way of interfering and ordering with dogs and rubber clubs. How, however, have we now, almost six months later after this event, reached such a narrative that there really was something so terrible that all the power structures under the Prime Minister, the Minister of the Interior, and the police leader needed to be put on their feet and put out of order? My statement or also my question: maybe, in addition to all very important reasons, that is why the establishment of the Riigikogu Committee of Inquiry is necessary so that the real truth in history is not lost or buried under propaganda, and the future generations still have an adequate picture?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U171	Thank you. Yeah, I think the absolute majority of people really figured out what was going on then, and they know what's going on right now. This propaganda is so hollow. Of course, there were no law enforcement incidents, none. We asked both the chief of police and the Minister of the Interior what the irregularities were, whether someone dropped the butt or something. No, it wasn't. This was an example of a disorder that someone was tinting the guitar without taking permission from the city of Tallinn for it or playing the cello. Now, that was a felony. It had to be stopped with special equipment. It was a violation, and once it had to be guaranteed when a man was clucking with a milk cuff, wasn't it? It was said that during a pandemic, people should not take hands and sing together. Well, it was a massive violation, so the joke had to be stopped right away. It's a miracle they didn't hit the water cannons. It's a classic example of who wants to find a way who doesn't want to find an excuse. We know how many excuses the police will find if you have been broken into an apartment or a country house: but go check the pawnshops in the nearest city, see if you can find your stuff, and if you find it, come and tell us. We see a lot of this initiative, but, if necessary, some rules for keeping cats and dogs in Tallinn will be found, which will then be enforced by an armoured train. It's sick, it's just sick. There is, of course, such a conceptual question behind which those who used this force are that, since the meeting was not registered, but according to the constitution, we do not have to register a meeting to express our sense of mind, and were subject to corona restrictions, which did not allow more than 10 people to be present together in the public space, it was already a disorder that people were present here, and this disorder had to be resolved decisively. Well, I would say that the government's corona arrangement is certainly not stronger than the constitutional rights, certainly not. We come back to this question of proportionality: if at all this government arrangement of 282, which was then relied on, was the basis of something, then it itself was suddenly disproportionate. It may seem that the legality of the order itself was not at all in accordance with other laws and the Constitution. So this talk about protecting order or ensuring order, yes, if I wanted to do legal nose pecking, it would be possible to set up the construction, but this construction does not resist criticism.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U172	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U173	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, For more than six months in Estonia, there has been an extremely bizarre government: the Prime Minister is subordinate to the Minister of Social Affairs, or he is a hostage, and the Minister of the Interior is still subordinate to the Director General of the Police Department. Examples of this can be heard from the officials of the Ministry of the Interior with a bundle. If we now assume that this Commission will succeed and the Commission will also find out who is responsible, what assurance can we have that, if this government survives the autumn, it will still take some measures and the guilty people will get some kind of punishment? In any case, the prior Question Time, where the Social Security Minister's hostage told us about the Health Board's warehouse that everyone was guilty, but no one could be held accountable, did not give us any particular certainty.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U174	Thank you. Ultimately, democracy in Estonia still works so much that the elections still have to answer. Riigikogu elections, but maybe even local elections, for example, have an impact. But this is, of course, a very high level of abstraction. If the Commission were to succeed, one of the objectives of this committee is that all the political groups of the Riigikogu are represented there and that it is creating certain public pressure. He's going to identify these things the way he's going to identify it, so there's just no way he's going to be able to contradict any of the stories that it really wasn't, and we came here to fix it. The so-called factual circumstances are established and, on the basis of these facts, it can be said that the political consequence or political responsibility is here and here. How much power is there, and how much power can be gained from public opinion, it is difficult to say today. But at least you have to try. Well, at least you can't let it go like this by shrugging your shoulders, because in that case, the rot goes on, it gets deeper, and the problems get bigger and bigger. Once again, I think what happened in April is a prelude to the fact that we have police handling incidents with drunk people by shooting people. It's not normal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U175	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U176	Thank you, manager. Honourable waitress! I looked at the budget of the Chancellery of Justice. Almost 3 million will receive his money and he will hold a building similar to the main building of the University of Tartu. But what's he gonna do? We must do the Committee of Inquiry when one simple fundamental right is seriously violated. Can't even protest peacefully. The worst noise is the crashing of a milk cunt, and that's the big danger. There are millions of them in France, and they're driving cars, still not being pushed down. So it seems to me, and I would like to know from the rapporteur whether it is a constitutional institution with such a building and such money. When discriminated against by buying pie for the population, he is silent as a boar in the rye. Do we need an organ like this? As with the president, there are question marks. What's the money going for?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U177	Thank you. Well, I would even extend this question: if the constitutional institutions, including the government and the Riigikogu, put their hands on their ears and eyes and say that I do not see that the Constitution, which you are talking about, is not a violation of the Constitution, everything is beautiful, la-la-la-la-la, then the Constitution does not really work anymore. We are seeing increasingly constitutional institutions that do not fulfil their role. Let's take the same Defence Police Department, right? It's his job to protect constitutional order. But it is now that we have been told how, on the basis of his document, the police dealt with the restriction of constitutional rights. The Constitution is words on paper. If these words are not protected on paper by institutions and people, by specific people in institutions, then these words on paper cost nothing. I think that we have a very serious problem with people who have sworn their allegiance to the dogmas of the liberal front and have declared their belonging there, completely unshadowedly finding that the Constitution could be violated in order to enforce these liberal dogmas. This is not a problem, the constitution is not higher than their party-based, or say, world-view ideology. We have done so in times past that in constitutional institutions the fighters of the liberal front are mostly ticking. If this continues, if we do not turn it around, then we will soon no longer have the Republic of Estonia, which we restored in 1991 and established by the Constitution in 1992.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U178	Valdo Randpere.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U179	Thank you. Good Martin! Since you said, in answer to my first question, that basically whoever paid for those buns is not going to look into it, I hope some journalist might have heard my question and is going to look into it. But now about the threat assessment and what you're saying, there was no reason to see any danger. I know at least three members of the Riigikogu who were threatened with liquidation, including myself. Well, they didn't, so as far as you're concerned, they weren't safe. But the threat was serious. Second of all, I'm going to quote you a few things. What do you say this could have been the basis for a threat assessment? "But we tell everyone that if, in some way, the deep state, the media industry complex, the Reform Party succeeds in screwing up these negotiations of the government coalition, these small demonstrations of the hangvei benches are a walrus party compared to what our supporters are going to do on the street when we are being rejected by dishonest means," said Martin Helme TRE in Radio on 24 March 2019. The speaker was Martin Helme, who you may know. Do you think such statements could be the basis for a police threat assessment?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U180	Thank you. By the way, I usually remember my quotes well, I even remember when I said it. I would point out that I didn't say that I basically didn't care about the financing of these pies, I said that I didn't know, and I also said that I didn't see the problem with who bought and for what. I see no problem when members of the Riigikogu bring pies to people in front of the house. Now yes, damn it, the deep state, the Reform Party managed to overthrow our government, and after that they started turning off the screws in Estonia, after which they began to restrict the constitutional rights of the people. The threat I saw materialized. And if anyone thinks that social tension as a result of such actions will ease, not increase, he must think again.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U181	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U182	Thank you. Good waitress! If, for example, the work of this committee of inquiry would result in the role of the Defence Police being greater than simply sending a single document to the Police and Border Guard Board, what could be the conclusions? In this case, do we not go to some of the very dangerous territories where questions arise, which are at all the relationship between our security authorities and our executive powers, how we should change structures and laws in order to ensure the transparency of our state agencies? Couldn't that be one of the reasons why the creation of this committee is opposed?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U183	Thank you. Yeah, I'd say the key word here is definitely civil control. Civil control is a concept that has been built up in Western society, democratic pluralist societies for at least 200 years. It started with the military. Post-Revolutionary France and a number of other large Western European countries were struggling with the fact that it was the generals who marched through the door and told the government how to do it. Introducing it, enforcing it, in order to finally establish the principle that politicians first receive a mandate from voters, and then these politicians tell the military what wars to start and which ones not, has not come easily. We can also see it slipping away, but this time not into the hands of the military, but into the hands of security agencies, or scouts. True, Arnold Sinisalu always corrects me when I say "students," he says we're counter-intel, not scouts. There's a difference, I know, but let's use it as a general term. This problem, which I described once before, that the Kapo Commission, or the Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities, does not even inform its member that a secret document has come into his name, with which he is not only allowed to be consulted but must be examined, shows us which farce we have in terms of civil control, at least in terms of parliamentary civil control. Is the government better with this civilian control? It probably depends a lot on what the government is like. I dare say that at the time we were in the government, this was more civil control than at the time when the Minister of the Interior was himself a person from the so-called structures. As regards specifically what it was or whether this role was more than just making one document, I do not have any more information about it at the moment. But when the Commission comes up with more information on this, I think it is very important to know. That is one of the reasons why we should do the Commission. There is a systematic problem with civil control in Estonia. In parallel, I can give an example of disputes over defence procurement. In the spring following the publication of the state's budget strategy, it turned out that the Minister of Defence and the Commander of the Defence Forces were making any decisions to undermine national defence, and we called on both groups to talk to them about it again, the Commander of the Defence Forces' direct statements made it very clear that no politicians had to tell him how to build up the Defence Forces, what capabilities to develop and which were not. He knows better than that. But this is the opposite of what we understand under civilian control. These are precisely politicians who say that these capacities need to be developed and these are our priorities, we put so much money on it, and we put a lot of money on it. As it goes without saying, politicians are going to say that, but, dears, we have been running for election, and we had the promise that we would do this kind of thing and this kind of thing in national defence. They tell you, but I've been going to get more military education than you have, get the fuck out of here. This shows how comprehensive and deep the problem lies with the leaders of these permanent power structures or in the management of civilian control.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U184	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U185	Thank you. Dear waitress, Yesterday was, in my opinion, a signicant day for the entire people of Estonia. The draft proposed by EKRE, which sought to criminalise the coercive vaccination and medical testing, was sent to the waste bin with the help of the representatives of the Reform Party and the Central Party. Today, a group is being set up at the Riigikogu to investigate police activities. At the moment, it seems that this bill tends to go to the same place, because Valdo Randpere, the smartest person in the Riigikogu, puts the pies and the realisation of constitutional rights in Estonia at stake. I think it's the same way. But this is certainly very significant for voters, because it can be seen who really cares about the rights of the people and who does not. Can my conclusions be correct?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U186	Thank you. Well, on this draft yesterday, I would say that, yes, I was sorry that this debate slipped more into a subject who believes and does not believe in any medical articles, because it was not the essence of this draft. The key to the draft was that people should be free to decide on their own vaccination or treatment. This is the essence of it, and it is a very central constitutional principle that this bill wanted to protect. Whoever believes what doesn't matter. What matters is whether we have the right to decide our own body, as the Liberals say, or not. Liberals have taken the position that there is no right to judge their bodies. And that is, indeed, as you said, a signicant statement. What about today's bill? We do not remember that either 97.8% or 98.7% of the opposition's draft laws fly into the trash after the first reading, the remaining few percent reach the second reading and then get stuck. That's the way it tends to be. This is statistics from the last three Riigikogu configurations. Maybe I'm wrong about the decimal place. But that does not mean that we should not be addressing this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U187	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U188	Good manager! If the cold store was a lump, the secretary of state made a commission, and it came out. But, well, it didn't work out much, it still doesn't. Five years ago, when we studied the corruption case of the Port of Tallinn, Valdo Randpere also sat there joyfully and watched as the interrogation was conducted, it was fun. But now he says there was nothing about it. Well, let's take that it was nothing. Then what's the holdup? We take the white page, that everyone has acted according to the law, that everyone has acted in proportion, that no one has lied. Let's do the threat of killing Valdo Randper and his two comrades and a few more things. Then why isn't it wanted to be? There could be clarity in the house. I wouldn't want anyone to be guilty. Let's say it's all right. Then why isn't it wanted to do the reflection?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U189	Thank you. I'd say it's like this with death threats. Already in the previous Riigikogu, I received several death threats; as a minister I received many times; I also repeatedly turned to the police. I would say that there is no party discrimination, there is plenty for all of us. Absolutely unambiguously, I think we should all have a zero tolerance for this kind of behaviour. I don't think anyone should threaten to kill Valdo Randper, and I hope Valdo doesn't think I should be threatened to kill and kill even less seriously. I don't think there's any argument here. As far as the white paper is concerned, lying has already been caught, and lying has caught us in the group in bulk. But okay, really, let's make the assumption that we start from scratch. We're going to check all the things we want to control, and maybe we're going to come to the conclusion that everything was kosher. But this is also a good solution, even then, at least some confidence in the Estonian state, in the Estonian state's power structures, in the Estonian political decision-making mechanism has been restored. I also don't see why it should be scared or why it would want to be prevented. But we, living in the real world, realize that it really doesn't work out that everything was beautiful and everything was kosher. In fact, this result really shows a whole range of people and a whole range of decisions in a very bad light, and it is because of this that we will see how things are going in this vote soon.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U190	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U191	Thank you. The current government can't do anything, and it's already completely epidemic. They will not be able to find out what has happened or who is responsible, nor will they be able to take responsibility when we talk about this cold warehouse case, right, which was touched by the previous speaker, Peter Ernits. Perhaps, in addition to the committee of inquiry that we are dealing with here today, we should also set up a committee of inquiry on what happened in the cold warehouse, all the more so as there has been a loss to the state of 7 to 9 million euros, according to various figures, and the prosecutor's office sees no reason to initiate anything here. Maybe we should set up a committee of inquiry for this case, too. Just to find out the truth, because no one else here is capable, able or willing to do anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U192	Thank you. Yeah, isn't it funny that a government that cuts us hard at one end cuts some basically ridiculous numbers, but it does a lot of social damage to internal security, external security, social security, while the other hand just lets [money] flow off with a cold stomach? Yeah, well, whether it's $7 million or $9 million, it hasn't been possible to identify it so far. Well, I guess that's more of a cut-off assignment, so you can shut down more of the choir. But the Commission can do it. I think that this committee would also be of great use, but maybe it would be easier, better and better for everyone if we replaced the government instead of [doing] the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U193	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U194	Thank you. I remember, after regaining independence, the members of the Riigikogu, as well as the President, had to swear their conscience that they had not been involved in the Soviet power structures, and President Meri's oath was challenged. There was also a penalty for this violation, but since it wasn't a judge, it ran into the sand. Today we are in exactly the same situation as the committees of inquiry to which people are entitled to be heard. There is also a penalty for not showing up, but just as there is no judge, so no one can actually be held accountable. It has harassed all the earlier committees of inquiry. Similarly, the topic of the VEB Foundation, the topic of corruption in the Port of Tallinn, where I myself was on the Commission. I'm not going to speculate whether this has been a conscious and deliberate step, but do you think that this thing should be fixed first and set up as a handler?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U195	Yeah, well, whether it was conscious or deliberate, it doesn't matter anymore. What is important is that this problem has emerged in a series of committees of inquiry and has become a real obstacle to action, but in any case a factor that reduces the effectiveness of action. Indeed, this should be corrected in the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. I am not sure that we can improve this together with this draft decision, but the bill can and should be corrected.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U196	Riho Breivel.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U197	Good manager! Good waitress! I have a fundamental and brief question. A colleague of ours quoted you a little while ago and tried to get close to the truth. Can it be said from this point of view that if there is dissatisfaction with the government that is now in power, if there is dissatisfaction with it, then that is, how can I say, a threat to constitutional order?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U198	Yeah, that, it seems, is the logic of today's government. What does it say about their worldview? It is such a saddamhussinical understanding of things that the state can have only one government and one ruler, and anyone who doubts it, anyone who would like to see someone else, is basically traitors of treason. That's the attitude I'm sensing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U199	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U200	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! My first question is: have you not thought that we have such a saying that if you do not want to deal with the subject, do the Commission? It has worked in Tallinn City Council as well as elsewhere. Even if a good colleague, Märt Sults, wanted to make a casino island, he was offered to do a commission, and now we see that the casino island is not coming, because the Commission is dealing with it. But my second question is personal experience. On November 14, 2001, a football game took place between Estonia and Kazakhstan. There were no people at all. On the other side of the game, the police started taking away fans. When we were sitting around the table, we asked if it was training in the sense of just practicing, because the next game was with Russia on 27 March 2002. That's why the awkward situation had been resolved. Then we wanted to cancel, but King and Sen sat for five days, and Papa got two kilos of fine, so they couldn't get it back. Those two questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U201	Yeah. [[Laughing.]] I'll try to answer both of them. Indeed, it is an old truth that, when the Commission is done, these ends can be thrown into the water. This, of course, depends on the maker, or originator. If this initiative comes from the opposition, it is likely that the aim is not to release the search, but to make things clear. If the initiative comes from a coalition, it may be suspected that the process is what the objective is, i.e. the result is not an objective, but a goal. We all know that committees can be clumsy and slow. Let's just say they get a round result. In terms of the composition of today's Riigikogu, today's representatives of government departments are also on the spot, who can troll there in various ways. But if we made this committee so that there is one person in each political group, coalition parties would be outnumbered there, and at least this work could not be blocked. As for the football game that took place in the early 2000s, I will come back to what we had here a while ago. We're told with such an arrogant grin that if you don't like it, sue our fine or our freezing order or whatever. It's not gonna be two weeks for these people to get back, is it, who was on the plate, even if they were told afterwards that the ups, sorry, weren't really legal. Here, too, the process is a punishment, not to mention that the power structures must be practiced somewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U202	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U203	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Martin! After all, no sober and democratically-minded person has any doubt about the need for this committee; there is no doubt about that. However, in a situation where we have a liberal dictatorship, a cartoon of democracy, where the declarations of conscience of people who are not satisfied with the government are being suppressed under the name of a constitutional crisis or threat, where we do not have the factual civil control required by the Constitution over the structures of force, it is indeed quite difficult to expect that our Parliament will not use road roller tactics here. You've been implying that. However, I am positive, like you, and I believe that maybe the 3% that shows how many such drafts go through may be an option, because we believe in democracy. But the key question is: what can we do in this situation if we know that we do not have a factual civil control over the power structures, how can we put it in place?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U204	Well, we're about to see how many people are sober and democratically thoughtful in this Chamber. Then, of course, after that, we will ask our colleagues which they are, either uncritical or undemocratic or maybe both at the same time. Yes, restoring civil control is, above all, a question of wanting, above all a matter of wanting. What is power? Power is a very simple thing, it is when you can move people and money, or let people work or let people go, or give them money, or take money away from them, that's what power is. It's so simple. From today's government, we can see that some of them are able to use power, and several people have already been released from the Ministry of Social Affairs system, but a lot of money has been given in return. It's never quite a single picture. Of course, if we have a problem with people who simply, in essence, do not even recognise civil control but do not understand civil control, then the continuation of these people in high positions should, in fact, be ruled out in the interests of the security of all of us. The government has it, the decision. The government will replace the Commander of the Defence Forces, the Director-General of the Police Department, the Head of the Special Branch, and all these people will be taken out of office and put into office by the government. But let's think about it a little bit in blacker tones: what is the motivation for the government to take them out of office when they helped the government to power and keep them in power? Well, there's not that much motivation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U205	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U206	Good manager! Good waitress! First, a few questions at a time. One is this: what do you think if this committee is set up, how quickly could it come to any conclusion? At least yesterday I noticed that there was no more confusion in front of the house when there was protest about vaccination. Shouldn't the Riigikogu, like, take a bigger role in these topics at all? Even the outgoing president reprimanded us that the Riigikogu is such a rubber stamp and cannot control what is happening in Estonia. One option is that of the Commission, but is it also intended to see what other opportunities are available, so that there is no situation in which, if not rightly or not, this is the case against our people? The Estonian population has gone in two directions, some say that everything is fine, and others say that it is bad. But are there any other ideas on how the Riigikogu could do better?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U207	Well, the outgoing president just wanted to tell us badly. We didn't pick him back. I do not agree with the fact that the Riigikogu does not work and the Riigikogu does not establish itself. Yes, the executive has increased its 'freedom of action'. It comes mainly from not the Estonian domestic political logic, but from the European Union, where the Commission does things, the government agrees on these things, and then the Riigikogu, as a rubber stamp, puts these things forward and says that it has to be done, it has already been agreed, nothing can be changed. It's a much bigger problem than this, I don't know that some people don't take enough words or whatever. But, well, the way politics is, the impression is often a reality. These realities can change very quickly. We have had too little that the Riigikogu invites ministers, lost ministers back, too little. It'll definitely discipline you. In fact, I think that the mere fact that we are discussing this matter here today and that we have been holding this subject up very long and hard in the spring, we have invited the ministers and the leaders of the agencies to a political group, has had a healing effect on the whole process, so quickly and so obviously the hand does not move until the holocaust next time. It is necessary to keep it under pressure and to do this committee would be part of keeping it under pressure. The second part would be to distrust Tanel Kiig.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U208	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U209	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I still want to get to their roots, what's the reason? We have obviously forgotten, as one of the most important factors, the factor of human stupidity. As it happens, even if it was training, it may have been, for example, as the corporates do, that the fox is given a task, and no one knows who did it, that cannot be said. Or a simple option: I'll bet you 100 eurts that I'm taking this man with the continent right now. When things come out, it's very embarrassing to say, and maybe that information doesn't go so well. Do you think that the Commission could somehow identify such a factor of human stupidity?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U210	Yeah, human stupidity is the first explanation for a lot of situations. In a way, I think that's the human stupidity we saw. We have a person who worked for the police for the rest of his life and became a minister. He says that his political platform and worldview are policemen's worldview. He doesn't come out of the role he's under the command of the director-general of the police department, and then at some point they're gonna figure out that now we're gonna show you what great gadgets and toys we have, what tactics we can use, in other words, we're gonna drive the drones on the holops. He does not think that they have much broader responsibility, political responsibility, responsibility for the functioning of constitutional matters. He doesn't even think about it, just: let's do it! That may well be the explanation. Somehow I think there's more of these lines, that decision wasn't just made in two people's heads. Such things cannot happen without the government, in general, or the government's leadership, being either silent or vocal. If these things just happen because two bannermen at the Ministry of the Interior, I don't know, invented it before the night, and it's gonna be possible, it's gonna be the end of the day. Then the Prime Minister no longer has any role in the country, then his function is just being beautiful. With that explanation, things are still much worse than we're afraid of. But this version cannot be ruled out and that is why, of course, a committee of inquiry would be necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U211	Good waitress, no more questions for you. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U212	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U213	Now it's time for a co-report. This is done by Marko Storm, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U214	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear waitress, Ladies and gentlemen, As a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I am authorised to give you an overview of what the commission has decided, and I will also give you an overview of the course of discussion. It's been a while, almost three months, but I'll get the protocol to help, so I'm not wrong. I would like to say in advance that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, through the chairman's mouth, made a proposal to reject the draft, and in this form it was voted, with 4 votes in favour and 3 against. As I said, in consensus, the Commission appointed me here in advance. But now the details. 7 June was the date when the Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed the subject. To be correct, I will also read out the Members of the Commission. Kalle Grünthal, Andrei Korobeinik, Oudekki Loone, Lauri Läänemets, Paul Puustusmaa, Urmas Reinsalu, Marko Storm and Mart Võrguship were present. Invited was Minister of the Interior Kristian Jaani. The Commission meeting consisted mostly of this (through the video bridge) that the Minister of the Interior gave an overview of the topics and the members of the Commission interviewed the Minister of the Interior. I expect, at least, that the final opinion for the vote was shaped according to what was heard from the Minister and how these answers were adopted. At the beginning of the Commission, Mr Grünthal presented a video section which unfortunately lacked sound for technical reasons. The video section dealt with an incident in front of our own house, in front of the Riigikogu, by memory, where police officers, representatives of the Health Board and demonstrators were present. I understand the reference was that some people questioned or contacted people didn't introduce themselves. I'm trying to remember from behind, but this video recording without sound wasn't exactly understood by who said what and in what form. But it was primitive. Mr Helme has already spoken about the motivation in his presentation of the bill. I will add Mr Grünthal's additional words. It was pointed out that the basis for the formation of a committee of inquiry had been a constitutional offense when people were not allowed to express themselves freely and their freedom of expression was restricted. In addition, the Committee of Inquiry would aim to determine whether infringements have been committed on one side and on the other. Everyone has the right to express himself freely, Mr Grünthal graduated. Okay. And now Kristian Jaani has the floor. He spoke for a relatively long time about how, in his opinion and on the basis of the information known to him, the police acted in the course of these events mainly in April 2021. I'm not going to read the protocol for long. In conclusion, the Minister pointed out that the primary objective of the police was to disperse the participants, to ensure order and also to ensure that the demonstrations, which were perfectly permitted according to the Constitution, were conducted peacefully and that people, given the health situation which was in April this year, would not have been dangerous to the people around them during the demonstration. It was also pointed out in several cases that, if there were any references to police armaments and the use of special equipment, the police were based on a known threat assessment at the time, they were ready to respond accordingly. When the situation called for it, he was ready to react when the situation resolved, so did the police's behavior on the ground. In several cases, reference was made to the aggressive behaviour of demonstrators, which consisted in both verbal expression and gestures. Now what is factual and comes from this June [session] protocol (I can't say if anything has been added since then): five complaints received from the police department about police action. They were at that point in the procedure, some of them had already been [the procedure] at that point, some were still in the process phase. During this period, 13 misdemeanour cases against offenders had also been carried out. It was pointed out that public order was violated and that there was an insult to police officers. The main problem raised by the Minister of the Interior was that, since there was no organizer, there was no person to be taken as a 'control' or 'contact person' in the case of demonstrations, the role of officer was to be exercised by the police. This must have made it harder to deal with the situation. Okay. Let's keep moving fast. Mr Grünthal specifically asked the Minister for the Interior whether Kristian Jaani considered it necessary to set up a committee, and the Minister for the Interior replied that he did not, because people who feel that they were being subjected to force or were not being treated accordingly have the opportunity to turn to the police. There's been a lot of talk about it today. Certainly, if the solution is not acceptable, there is an opportunity to go to court to defend your rights. As a result, the Minister for the Interior has not supported the creation of an additional committee. Member of the Commission Oudekki Loone asked whether the Security Authority Oversight Commission had dealt with this issue. The answer was no. This is also what Mr Grünthal referred to: if he had dealt with it, it would not be necessary in this form for the Committee of Inquiry. Okay. Mr Loone acknowledged that internal investigations had been initiated and hoped that members of the Commission would be informed of these results later. Personally, I've been looking at the Home Secretary from the excerpt. I also confirm here today that I find, at least at that time, in the spring, on the basis of pieces of information that have reached us via the media and social media, that the police acted well, according to the situation. I even promise myself a personal comment that he kept a commendable cold nerve on quite a number of occasions. I didn't detect unprofessional behavior there. Once again, the Minister of the Interior referred to the health crisis and the choice of police tactics precisely because, if the situation escalates, there would be sufficient resources to deal with the situation. I actually liked that explanation. Okay. As a member of the Urmas Reinsalu Commission, Urmas asked about the difference between the green and blue forms of the PBGB. The Minister replied that the classification of the forms is such that officials with a border guard function have green colour forms, and in addition those with a rapid reaction function wear the green form. The green form is also worn by service dog leaders. I touch on this issue so that the role of any Member of the Commission is not left unchecked here. Okay. Regarding service dogs, additional questions were asked as to why their involvement was necessary. The Minister of the Interior replied that these were special instruments and was considered necessary at the time in the light of an assessment of the situation. Okay. I'm getting to the end. As regards the proposal put to the vote by Commission President Toomas Kivimägi, he commented that, in the case of these demonstrations, their organiser was not known and the notification obligation mentioned above was also not fulfilled, i.e. the PPP in front of our house and downtown, mostly was not informed about what was going on in Vabaduse Square, although this obligation is in fact the responsibility of the promoter. Like me, Toomas Kivimägi acknowledged the fact that the forces were appropriate to the situation and maybe even more because you never know how the situation could escalate at one point or another and may later find it difficult to regain control of the situation. The chairman of the committee also indicated that the subject could actually fall entirely within the area of activity of the Riigikogu Committee on Legal Affairs, and the Committee on Legal Affairs could deal with this issue in terms of civil control and parliamentary supervision. It seems to me that I have actually been able to mention the main speeches here. Certainly, the Members of the Commission who took part on the ground will be able to improve if something important was not mentioned. But finally, in the vote, as has been said, the proposal was to reject the draft. There was, as mentioned, 4: Toomas Kivimägi, Andrei Korobeinik, Marko Storm and Mart Võrguship. Kalle Grünthal, Paul Puustusmaa and Urmas Reinsalu voted against. It was scheduled for June 15th, but at that time, yes, before the end of the spring session, we had a bit of a entanglement, and now, unfortunately, we are dealing with this three months later. That's all for me. I'm waiting for your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U215	And Kert Kingo will start with them. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U216	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! As we often have to state here, there is no substantive and objective debate in the committees. On this basis, it seemed that the Minister of the Interior was simply nodded to what he said and felt that this was all right. But I still have the question of whether, for example, there was a debate on whether the police respected their fundamental values, their basic duties and their obligations, whether they were respected. What are the basic values of the police, for example, were they even taken into consideration? Were there any discussions on the consequences, such as escalation and out of control, of the police's wrong decision and reaction? Was this tactic, after all, properly chosen and proportionate in view of the circumstances? You said yourself that you saw the video, and you didn't actually understand the video. That's what it says. You probably weren't the only one. My question is, did you really discuss anything, or did you just nod at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U217	Thanks to the questioner! I do believe that we discussed the substance and that all the members of the Commission that we have from all the political groups could ask questions. Mr Grünthal did so on several occasions, and Paul Puustusmaa did the same. So I have no doubt that nothing would have been asked at the time. I have to fix the questioner: I didn't quite put it that way that there was nothing to understand about the videos.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U218	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U219	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good performer! Did the Commission also discuss parallels, for example, with the events of 9 May that took place at the Bronze Soldier? There were practically six cops out there. They sang, danced, and felt very well, had a drink. Did the Commission discuss any parallel with this event?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U220	Thank you for your question. Members of the Commission can supplement, but not according to my memory, and I didn't read it in the minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U221	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U222	Good manager! Good waitress! I got a scratch on one of your quotes. You asked the minister whether or not to do this committee. If I have understood this draft correctly, the question is whether the police, and let us say, the Minister's behaviour was right or not. Is it really you in the Commission now that you call on the Minister in your field and the Minister says how the Members of the Commission must behave? To me, it is quite surprising, frankly, despite the experience of the ten-year Riigikogu, that ministers go to the committee to say how members of the committee should vote. Or did I misunderstand something?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U223	Thanks to the questioner! Yeah, I think there's been a little mistake. The questioner was Mr Grünthal, and his minister asked him. It should also be found in the verbatim. I guess I wasn't wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U224	No more questions for you. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. First, Mart Helme asks for the floor. Please! Let me remind you that there is a chance for the representatives of the political groups to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U225	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, We have been discussing a very fundamental issue here yesterday and today. This fundamental question focuses on one subject. Are our constitutional rights guaranteed? Is civil control of those institutions that have a constitutional obligation to monitor and enforce our constitutional rights functional, is that sufficient? Do we have a government competent to control its offices, in this case, on today's subject, the Police and Border Guard Board? Is the Police and Border Guard Board accountable to the Minister, or is it the task of the Minister to cover up the misdemeanours, abuses of power and maladministration of the authority under his authority? Is the Commander of the Defence Forces entitled to a personal decision on vaccination or non-vaccination of persons working under his authority or in his chain of command? It was also under discussion yesterday. These are issues of utmost principle. These are not the populist issues of the party, they are exclusively about all the people who are in this Chamber, or rather the people who have received a mandate here, because we have received a mandate from the people to whom we have committed ourselves, and we have also sworn that we will defend the Constitution of Estonia, the constitutional order of Estonia. We have deep doubts that this constitutional order is being threatened by our own institutions because of their lack of civil control, their maladministration, their abuse of power. In the course of today's debate, we do not want to give the impression that we are against the police, against the simple policemen doing their jobs. We're not against them. But we also remind these simple policemen who are doing their jobs of one thing: it is not mandatory for them to comply with illegal orders. Enforcement of illegal orders is not mandatory for defence forces either. If someone is trying to seal the Kremlin's useful idiot on my forehead right now, I say to you, honourable MPs, colleagues: if we close our eyes here and follow party discipline, it is a much greater representation of the Kremlin's interests, basically representing the interests of the Kremlin in breaking society than it is that someone brings attention to these shortcomings. Please think about it! Please consider that our political system is currently on the verge of collapsing. Our political system currently operates in many ways from inertia. One serious crisis is enough. I mean the international crisis, the security crisis. If we see the paralysis of this system, we will see it largely because there has been a rubber stamp in this Chamber and the instructions have come from the government, the political parties in the government: support it, do not support it, it has been agreed in the political groups. There's no way we're gonna agree to that. It has taken us and is leading to an ever-increasing paralysis of the political system. It's a serious matter, it's not just some sort of scary thing. We see what happens in the world. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U226	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U227	We see what happened in Afghanistan. Basically, the doll regime collapsed in hours, not even days, but hours. I warn you, Mr President, who do you think that following the instructions of our friends is a guarantee of independence: we, too, will collapse in a serious international security crisis, perhaps in hours. Don't hold your head, don't hold your head! In order to avoid this, we must recognize this danger. But I have a feeling here [believed]: Trillalla-trolla, everything is great, everything is the same, we have NATO § 5, we have constitutional institutions, we have separation of powers, we have civil control. No, it's not. It's all limping on several legs. I remember when I was a minister in this very remote area, standing here in this hall, the opposition was screaming and trying to make it clear that they could cope with the corona crisis. Well, I can't handle it. Now trying to give the impression that civil control is some kind of relic from somewhere that, pragmatically, does not matter when it comes to implementing politics. This is an extremely big misconception. They're trying to make it look like the world is the same. The world is not the same. The world has changed. There's a great song on the cocktails. "The first dance is owl, let the shots shine." It's like our nineties, oh, the sea was knee-deep, but let your pants shine, let's pull, we're free. Then comes the second line: "The second dance is tango, but let the knees scoot. " That's when we kicked our knees, we needed to get into NATO, we needed to get into the European Union. Then comes the third dance: "Three dances are a owl tree, don't you break the tibias. " We're in this third dance right now. We must not break the tibias, because the fourth dance is "canaruska, come on, come on, papaalusta" them. And there's no joke. It's like a summary of our modern history in a jolly lyrical song. Except there's no fun and no lori in the end. So, respectables, I know what you're doing. I gave a speech yesterday, and then I said we'd be able to see how you vote. And that's exactly how you voted. I'll read you like an open book, respectable. I'm reading like an open book today. You make the wrong decision again, we all pay for this wrong decision, the Estonian people and the Estonian state pay for it. I can't tell you anything but to look in the mirror and be ashamed. But you don't look in the mirror and you're not ashamed. I say like Tõnis Mägi: repent! Repent, it's all we can do now, pray, repent. Because the big picture is like a kaleidoscope, turned into a nax-nax, has new patterns, and we don't know what the next pattern is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U228	Jürgen Ligi on behalf of the Reform Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U229	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I suppose he's symptomatic that the previous speaker is denying the Kremlin's interests over and over again. This reminds us of how here, during these events, hands and stomachs were handed together by EKRE, Nochnoi Dozor, and everyone else. But that's not really the subject of the bill right now. There was talk of land and weather, to Afghanistan, but not of something that should be investigated. Let me remind you: the subject is a committee of inquiry, but we listened here for how long do we know for two hours? be judged by who is all guilty and how things are. So, what are we looking at? Why are we pretending we're investigating something? We didn't hear anything about the methods, we didn't hear about the facts to check and how to check. We just heard who was responsible and how everything was there. We have heard the paranoia, hatred and hatred of our country in the ordinary EKRE deep state and the crusade against specific people who, in contrast, are being tried to find the support of some society's outcasts. Overall, the credibility of the Estonian police has so far been high. We may all have a negative experience, but this is not the kind of talk that should be made about Parliament's remote control. I admit that I personally have allergies to all kinds of investigative committees. It's based on a long experience, just as allergies actually occur with a long influence. There was no one among them to look back on with pride. They're always useless, they're always for someone to get away with, and of course they're taking resources. But for us to have been able to use this data in a way that is usefully, if so, only to confirm what has already been known. This paranoia has never really been confirmed. This is why the existing conventional options are generally preferred in this Chamber. What are the odds? Of course, this issue should not be examined by the EKRE Group, which already knows everything, although others do not yet know, but by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Nothing's gonna stop you from looking into it and talking about it. I haven't heard it done. I asked the bill waitress, he was just making a blur in response and reading some of his own explanatory notes. But what he's been trying to do to check the facts is nothing. I myself chair one of the relevant committees, the security oversight committee. There has been no interest in it, in fact, only another lie has flown, as if the Member of the Commission had not been informed of the document's arrival in his name. At least that's not the fact of my time. It was precisely during these events, when I became a member of the Commission, that the Commission would even be head of the Commission. Secret documents are not called out loud; they are always known; they are there in the Commission; they can always be read. We also read last Monday. But take a finger who's been reading for as long as I'm not gonna comment on that, you can see for yourself. He went to the fair. I had to leave, I couldn't look calmly. But we have a review of secret documents at the end of each committee meeting. This document was also known to be available to the Member of the Commission. If you weren't interested, you shouldn't spread any other information. What kind of study would that be? The only thing is to invite witnesses there. But in this exhilarated situation, we've had to come to work for two days now and get out of work under this very company's intrigue... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U230	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U231	...who supports EKRE's moods and who are here to be encouraged, saying that the people themselves rose. Well, I'm sorry, these have not been spontaneous gatherings, we know who's pulling these strings, specific people from the EKRE, if they're not from the Kremlin either, as the vice-president of the party suggests. It is not possible to get testimony from people who threaten, squirt, apologize, get in the car door, call them criminals and accuse people of being injected. I'm supposed to stop, we should all stop the compulsive vaccination! Well, another imaginary husk like a deep-fry. But they're not witnesses, they're prosecutors. As do the drafters who claim to want to investigate something, but they already know the sentences, they have a summary of the charges and they also make judgments. This is a very lame way of carrying out parliamentary scrutiny. By the way, word usage. The Helme family loves to talk about civilian control here, but let's face it, civilian control still means supervision of the armed forces, not civil authorities. I've heard so much about this remote control, I think that's enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U232	Mr. Ernits, do you have a question about the procedure for conducting the hearing?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U233	I have a question that the honourable speaker has not followed the course of events. I've told you twice that we're starting off on the white page, not as the prosecutor's office. We could listen more. And I've heard that Reverend Jürgen Ligi loves to go to practice instead of the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U234	This is not a procedural question. Kalle Grünthal, do you have a procedural question about the procedure for conducting a hearing?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U235	Yes, it is. Mr Jürgen Ligi mentioned that the members of the EKRE were Kremlin's minions. I'd like to make sure we don't have all kinds of lame talk here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U236	This is not a question of the procedure for conducting a sitting. Mr. Chef, do you have a question about the procedure for conducting the hearing?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U237	Thank you. I was very hurt by Mr Ligi's statement that it is the outcasts of society who come here before Toompea and express their spirit. He was talking about how words should be used. How do you feel about the courtesy of a member of the Riigikogu to call these people outcasts of society?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U238	There are no negotiations at the moment, and this was certainly not a question of the procedure for conducting the sitting. Mr. Ligi, do you have...?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U239	Thank you. It seems to me, however, that it takes the form of negotiations, and since my name was appointed...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U240	No, I won't let you open the negotiations. Jürgen, I'm not gonna let you open the negotiations. No, you don't either. Neither did Mr. Chef. Okay. The negotiations are now over, and I will proceed with the proposal of the lead committee to reject draft 379 at first reading. We have to vote through this. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me remind you that we are discussing Bill 379. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject draft 379 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U241	The rejection proposal was supported by 53 members and 18 members of the Riigikogu opposed. Draft decision 379 has been rejected.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U242	We will move on to today's second item, the draft law amending the Act on the Status of Members of the Riigikogu, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group and member of the Riigikogu Raimond Kaljulaid. A first-reading report will be made by Evgeni Ossinovski. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U243	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to the draft 396 initiated by the Social Democrats. The draft is driven by the government's spring decisions. In fact, as we know, in the spring, the government decided, according to my estimates, to apply an overall cut in the general government sector. This has hit, as we have read and discussed here too, the area of education, internal security and a number of other critical points. Even the orchestras have been assembled. On the basis of this agreement, the Constitutional Institution, called the Riigikogu, is also expected to have half a million cuts in money. In general, my main position is that Estonia should strengthen the role of parliament and parliament, not cut money here. Rather, we could look at what are the substantive capabilities that should be developed in Parliament so that the Riigikogu can do its work more meaningfully and still be in the front seat of the government administration, not in the back seat. Consequently, cutting yourself is not, I think, the right direction. But the Board of the Riigikogu decided to support this plan and we saw that in the office the hatchet would be hit according to the plan, no plan has come true, the next year we have been talking about the Centre for Development Monitoring. The Management Board has decided to leave the benefits of the members of the Riigikogu untouched and save on long-term development monitoring and evidence-based decision-making support. The Social Democrats do not agree with this. Of course, we can discuss whether the Development Monitoring Centre needs to be improved in some way, made more agile, more, I don't know, to better meet any day-to-day knowledge needs of members of the Riigikogu or political forces. All of this can be discussed. But saving on long-term evidence-based decision-making is certainly not right in our opinion. We don't think we should do that. In addition, those with a longer career will remember that the Development Monitoring Centre works under a special law. In our time, we were operating an institution with its big mistakes, of course, with a development fund. At one point, the Development Fund in the form it was in had exhausted its mission. And right here, I think that was the previous parliamentary formation, if I wasn't wrong, we really got to, I think, a fairly broad consensus that his actions should be stopped, and that is precisely the part that concerns future monitoring, that is, bringing the decision-making closer to the Riigikogu. So it was done. And, of course, the agreement that came about was that we are trying to improve this monitoring of development, not that next time we need to save, we will take half the budget away. But that's exactly how big the Bureau's decision to monitor development would be. We have made a very sensible and meaningful but at the same time simple proposal. Namely, to reduce the cost benefits for members of the Riigikogu from 30% of the minimum wage to 20% until the end of this composition, thus reducing by 10%. Mr. Ratas asks why so little. And here, too, is a very simple but equally meaningful explanation. It is precisely by reducing this amount that it is possible to save half a million euros in the budget of the Riigikogu, which, in such a surprising way, matches exactly the size of the cut that the government has written to the Riigikogu. In fact, of course, this saves a little more because we have made a calculation of this year's cost benefit number, which next year, due to the change in the index, is expected to increase with MEPs' salaries. So actually, we're going to be able to save more of this way. And that would be valid temporarily until the end of this term. Hopefully, by then, this austerity madness will also go away, those who needed it in this context would be satisfied with their need for attention, and in the next composition it would be the old way. What else can I tell you? Ah, yes: there is another point in the draft. The second point is just the initiative to eliminate injustice that was added here. Namely, that the expenses of members of the Riigikogu's management board could be capped at 50% of the expenses of ordinary members, i.e. not the expenses of members of the management board. There is a simple and very meaningful justification for this too. Namely, the members of the management board, as we know, the transport costs are covered by the budget of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu and the representation costs are also some. And since we know that the structure of the use of cost benefits is that roughly half is actually going to be the cost of transport, the members of the Board of the Riigikogu, who are covered by the budget of the office due to their position, do not need to use such a large amount of cost benefits. This has been confirmed by experience. It's been asked what happens if the government comes to its senses. It's happened in history, and it can happen again. If this cut is abandoned, will this bill lose its topicality? The answer is no. In fact, I think that this window of opportunity should then be used to really look at what this structural... Why are you laughing? It's not funny at all. ... a structural problem in our house's capabilities. And the summer has actually brought crystal clarity in this respect: this problem is Parliament's inability to supervise budgetary matters in the context of the government. We have learned here, with the help of the National Audit Office, that hundreds of millions have been counted down by hundreds of millions! Not to mention that Parliament does not actually have an overview of what is being voted for or against when there are votes. We have had a lot of talk here about the fact that, in the transition to an activity-based budget, the picture has become very blurry; we no longer know what proposals are being made, etc. In this context, there is a solution that needs more support, of course, also in financial terms. This solution has been proposed by our former colleague Jaak Aaviksoo. I think he has a very good proposal. His proposal is to create such a parliament in the practice of other countries, one can say, a classic parliamentary budget body or committee. Special Forces. In the English-speaking world, it's called a Budget office. This is a place where the Ministry of Finance would really have financial specialists, analysts, those people who have the necessary knowledge and experience of public finances and who would indeed be able to be in equal partnership with very good, dedicated and smart officials, let's say, and thus serve the Riigikogu, so that the Riigikogu has an understanding of what really is in that budget. We would actually be able to explain the impact of the various proposals that come here. I mean, we're no one on our own capable of appreciating that. Then, of course, we can look behind the lines and discover things there that the government may not always want to show. And it would, of course, serve the public's interests, because the draft budget, as it comes here, is still very dark for the public. Only the part that the government itself wants to explain more will come to a wider debate. In the United States, for example, it has happened that Congress's budget office has become a more authoritative authority on the state budget when, for example, it is the White House institution that I do not remember what its official name is, which on the government side of the budget, puts together on the executive side. Really good people have gathered there, they have been able to make long-term financial forecasts more accurately, to do very well, and indeed the necessary credibility has developed. And I think, when it comes to the moment where we are today as a result of various changes, of which I myself have been responsible for many births, and as such co-responsible, this concerns the transparency and comprehensibility of the budget and the control over it, we have reached a certain water gap. We actually have enough understanding today that changes are needed, and I think that there is also an understanding of what needs to be changed. But without initiative from this side of the house, nothing changes. The budget has simply gone so far towards the executive. Of course, creating this type of institution or competence with Parliament will cost money. There is no doubt about that. Otherwise, he has no quality. If we really want him to be able to play this role, we also need to invest financially in it. But it also brings savings thanks to the fact that we are actually able to detect the inefficiencies that exist in the state budget, and also to the pure mistakes that we have seen, there have been considerable errors. Of course, these amounts are in no way comparable. In this sense, in the big picture, it is certainly useful for the state and also financially sustainable for public administration, but someone must, of course, take on the job and employ the people involved. Parliament would, I think, be the best place for this because, according to the Constitution, it is Parliament that has the power to adopt the budget. It has been discussed that it might be possible to make the National Audit Office... For example, that the state budget comes in, the National Audit Office analyses it and gives the parliament before adoption, for example in the autumn, estimates of what the state budget is. Well, it's practically, I guess, not the best solution. That's for two reasons. First of all, according to the law, the National Audit Office is apolitical. Commenting on budgetary decisions or lines in the current budgetary process, it is very difficult to refrain from making political assessments or assessments that qualify as political in a public debate, as one or the other decision is clearly based on the aims and wishes of one or other party. Secondly, in a parliamentary state, I think that Parliament really should be able to create the necessary support structure for itself in order to do its work in a high-quality manner. The budget of the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia is currently unable to process in a high-quality manner. It's a real situation where we are. We have had this process, mostly and increasingly, in fact, leaning towards the executive power, and not only in terms of the distribution of sums of money, which in itself is both inevitable and broadly reasonable and clear, because things have become very large and technical, but also in terms of understanding where it is going for us. So this need is actually huge. I think that, since the extra money does not appear to be coming from anywhere, even if this cut is not done, it is actually necessary to have more money in order for them, I would say, to actually perform Parliament's core functions in a high-quality manner. And it is a good idea to support our proposal, which, I think, Members of Parliament will survive. But, yes, it did not mention the amounts that would reduce the cost benefits. If the ceiling is EUR 1320 this year, our proposal is that it be EUR 880 every month. I think we can handle it. We can do it, we have to do it. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U244	Thank you. There are also questions for the rapporteur. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U245	Thank you. Does it make sense to you, a good waitress, that the first thing the Board of the Riigikogu went into was the Development Monitoring Centre? After all, these spending lines are notable in the Riigikogu's budget. You could've tried to make that cut somewhere else. I wonder, on the basis of which political logic would the Centre for Development be cut off under the direction of the Riigikogu [has]? It came with some loose wrist motion, as they say using sports terms.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U246	I don't know exactly how to answer that. Perhaps the Commission's rapporteur can do better. But I imagine that explanation, the Bureau's justification was something that, first of all, Members' expenses and salaries are regulated by law, which means that the Bureau itself cannot take this decision. In order for us to reduce the cost allowances by 10% until the end of the membership, rather than reducing the Development Monitoring Centre or any other important function, we really need to adopt an amendment to the law in this Chamber. So why this proposal could not be made by the Bureau, that is the explanation. And in other respects, we all know, as one colleague said, that the Chancellery of the Riigikogu is, unfortunately, one of the poor houses compared to other state institutions. The budget has continued here over the years, unfortunately, and this is also, of course, reflected in the salaries of our good servants, the salaries of those who support us in committees and elsewhere in the services. In fact, I think there is nothing to save in the core functions of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, in the sense that they are already underfunded. Development Monitoring Centre... Okay, the electoral commission, which is in the Riigikogu budget, understandably there is nothing to summarise; it is also a core function that needs to be implemented actively both this year and the following year. I guess that's when they looked at that, oh, but here's, you see, a development monitoring center that came to us with a hop. He's a little bit like that next door, and nothing will happen directly if we take half of the budget away from them. They're only doing half the tests. Something happens, and then the world doesn't collapse. I guess this is a classic situation where the exclusion of long-term investment seems the easiest way to save money on the budget. One might ask why for a very long time the state was unable to guarantee normal funding for Estonian science, although we know that investing in science brings much more money, creates for us the society we want. But it's gonna happen in years. But if we don't give more to the scientists next year and instead, we're gonna asphalt the road somewhere, then the road's gonna be asphalted. What do these scientists do with the money next year, who knows? Maybe they'll discover something, maybe they won't. That he probably had a little idea about that guy, but it was a hasty and a bad decision. Hopefully, we'll be able to rethink it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U247	Indrek Saar again, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U248	It's very nice of you to be so polite. It makes perfect sense to me, because those who participated in Jüri Ratas's second government kept driving over everything that the science-based approach said. As their kind of act of revenge, it is humanly understandable. But the fact that the Reform Party was happily driving along is still a mystery to me. They have always stressed the need for knowledge-based activities, or at least in opposition. But I have a question: if we went ahead with this bill, could we think for a second reading that this cut in the cost benefits would be regionally differentiated? It is inevitably the case that those who have been elected from the outermost regions have the costs of representing their constituency and combining it with the sittings that must be held here, objectively taking higher. Could this cut be differentiated regionally?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U249	First of all, about this reply, I was also a little surprised by the position of the Reform Party on this issue. Especially because Maris Lauri was actually one of the leaders of this process when the Development Fund was transformed into the Development Monitoring Centre. All the beautiful, beautiful stories he'll give us in the future and why it's so important to bring it here to the Riigikogu. It was a certain deal back then, but now it's different. But yes, this regional aspect is undoubtedly important. People who come from a distance tend to have higher transport costs. Yes, not always, but often. Clearly, not all of them. We know, let's not talk politically, but there are MEPs who have been elected from some very distant corner of Estonia, but who go there once in four years. And maybe before the next four years, they'll go back to another county, which is somewhere far away, but maybe somewhere else. So their transport costs will only increase before the elections. But it is clear about itself, and it is, I think, good for Estonia that a large part of the people elected in the more distant counties live on there. They thus keep in touch with their homeland, and by doing so they bring knowledge and communication and bring their concerns back here. This is certainly very positive and should in any case be supported. So I think that, of course, if necessary, such a system can be created. Perfect and regionally differentiated is not present and probably for some will do a little more harm than for others. But, in principle, it is certainly possible to implement such a regional component in the context of transport costs, if it is willing to do so. I believe if there's a will, we can figure it out in a few days and agree.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U250	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U251	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I would like to know how the residues that are being used at the moment have been used, because it is not desirable that [certain costs] be reimbursed? Have they gone somewhere for research or have they just gone back to the state budget? How has this money been used at the moment? And this second mechanism: in what way will it be like "bridge financing" to support a development centre from the balance of cost benefits?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U252	The idea really is that the money, the half million that would be saved in this way, will remain a separate fixed money in the Riigikogu budget. This would, in fact, allow the Development Monitoring Centre to continue its activities on the same scale, even if half a million other budgets were to be cut. If the budget falls by half a million, development monitoring [money] would, in principle, be due to the [cut-off] of expenditure benefits and not to all other amounts. And I didn't forget that question, I'm going to turn to that. The question was, how are today's residues used? I have not done a detailed analysis, but as I have understood from the confirmation of the principal of the office, not personally to me, but for people who have dealt with this issue, these excess cost benefits are used to fill the various holes that appear in this poor house until the walls are painted. This house is obviously very severely depreciated. With this money, which will not be spent on members of the Riigikogu, it is possible to make some kind of necessary repairs, for example, and also to cover the holes in the staff costs of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, if necessary, it is some sort of performance fees or something else.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U253	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U254	Good manager and waitress! I'm willing to cut expenses, but not to save this company. Your beautiful talk about budget misunderstandings and everything else is God's right. But in the same budget control committee, I see millions flying. There will be another minister, thank you for your excellent work. Let's fix it! There's another minister next week. There's plenty of money. And now to pour these crocodiles here, or I don't know whose tears we're gonna be saving this company by paying off. No! So we should do something to get us out of the rubber seal status with a consent! But we just had this special committee to see if everything was done as it should be. I'm not a prosecutor, as Jürgen Ligi thought. You flushed it!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U255	Thank you! There were two issues now. The fact that EKRE does not like evidence-based decision-making is a fact, and there is nothing surprising about it in that sense. It is gratifying that you produce your values-based views in your discussions. I'm sure that's commendable. But now, Peter, you've got two things, due, of course, to shortcomings in my report, a little confused. One issue is the Centre for Monitoring Development, which means longer-term monitoring of development and decision-making on issues that may not bring votes in the next elections, but that need to be dealt with in the longer term. In fact, we could have more politicians looking further than the next elections, and it is certainly good for them to have someone in it. Because you can't see for yourself 20 years. The human eye is still limited, and so is the spirit. And the second question, then, is the question of the control of the state budget by Parliament. This committee, of which you are a member and of which I am often a guest, does not fulfil this objective. He is incapable of fulfilling this objective. He listens to the squirrel talk of ministers, asks some questions, listens to the Auditor General and his staff, fixes something there, talks, but in fact he is not able to actually be a demanding partner to the Ministry of Finance or to another ministry. But that's what we need. We do not need the dynamic leadership of Urmas Reinsalu to formulate ambitious summaries of how things are and could be. In order for all of us to formulate some kind of summary of what is in the budget one way or the other, we really need someone to be able to hover it and keep a finger on it. Today Parliament does not have this capacity, and nowhere does Parliament have this capacity. But that ability should be. This budget office, this special budget unit, of course, would not be composed of politicians who enjoy the joy of public transmission, but would be composed of analysts, public finance specialists who could actually read the budget and answer our questions, would actually assist Parliament in the state budget procedure. These are two separate proposals, both of which need to be made. So if you do not support this proposal for the Development Monitoring Centre's money, you could support this bill precisely in order to create this special budget unit. That would be good and important. Then it would also be better to do meaningful work in the committee you are a member of.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U256	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U257	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! The fact that an almost [percent] cut without a political guideline will result in cuts being made from places that the trimmer does not touch his own wallet and which have long-term damage, well, it is actually known in advance. But in the end, the Riigikogu has a choice. This is the Bureau's decision to save when such an incomprehensible and unnecessary obligation is imposed in the current budgetary situation. But what moral assessment would you make that there is really a cut in places that have long-term damage, which actually hinders the work of the Riigikogu on the substance, but does not concern the pocket of the clippers themselves? Much has been said about the Development Monitoring Centre. But I'd like to bring back what I think is even more cartooning about the ridiculousness of this cut. Riigikogu Toimetised's budget was one of the places where the job was cut to 17500 euros. Riigikogu Working Papers, the only publication of this type of scientific articles published for 20 years, can stop working after 17500 euros. What is the moral assessment of such decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U258	The moral assessment of this type of thing is likely to be different for everyone, but it is clear that if we prefer the short term to the long term, it does not honor us who we are here, that we really stick together from there, which could give us much more in the future. I don't know, I'm not very... I do not want to use moralizing vocabulary in such situations; it tends to become very vocal. I'm not gonna do that. But I think it's a bad decision. That's a bad decision you shouldn't make.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U259	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U260	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I would recall perhaps this kind of society's expectation in the spring of last year, when it turned out that members of the Riigikogu's salary was rising. We all felt extremely embarrassed and had to donate that money somewhere. Some [donated] non-profits, later turned out to be villains of the non-profits, and started looking for connections. Those who donated this money back to the state budget are hardly of any use. We could pretty much say it went sour in that warehouse with the vaccines, that's the money we gave back. But we did not actually find consensus with political parties, so that this money would go to a certain place where it could be measured to some extent. Does your draft provide for such flexibility so that the political groups can decide for themselves where they can direct the balance of this cost benefit? You'd like to give it to that retardation center, we'd like to have a wardrobe.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U261	If you choose whether evidence-based decision-making support or wardrobe, then I would also recommend that the Isamaa Group choose evidence-based decision-making. If there are any ideas on how to better channel the resources of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, of course they are welcome. But I don't know, wardrobe maybe this isn't the biggest bottleneck right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U262	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U263	Good manager and good waitress! First of all, you haven't figured out what I think. And I'm more of an analyst first, I guess. And I'm interested in what's real, what's going on, not some wickerheads tonight. But look, the company you want to give this money to, I don't agree with that. I can say here with my colleague, Mr Kojaman, that [gives] maybe a buffet or someone else. We should impose much more ourselves in the Riigikogu. But now come to the cost-benefits of how my colleague Kojamees said to support the Centre for Developmental Disability, no! And by the way, Mr Jürgen Ligi also flourished in this committee all the time, it was not Urmas Reinsalu. Summer we flourished here, or rather he flourished when Louis Freeh's committee was found there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U264	Well, these Louis Freeh things were a disgrace to your party, that's true. But, of course, I don't doubt your analyticality. I'm working with you at the committee, that's what we know. Well, what can I tell you? Well, you don't like Development Monitoring Center. If you agree, we will propose an amendment. I'm willing to consider if you propose an amendment to direct some of this money to the buffet. I think we can find a compromise here if it is very important to you, because it is important to me that we get funded by the Centre for Monitoring Development, to a better level of budgetary control. If there's an important buffet and wardrobe, I think we can find an agreement on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U265	Thank you. Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U266	Good President! Honourable waitress! Your colleague Riina Sikkut asked about morality, and you said you did not want to talk about it. But my question is the same. I would first like to ask whether the Development Monitoring Centre itself knows that we are currently facing a dilemma. You asked the question as if we were all going to support him with some kind of personal money. The reality, as you certainly know, is that most members of the Riigikogu do not spend their expenses on the amount to which you wish to reduce it. But this issue is now being raised as if our personal money needs to support them and they are being transformed into dependants. And as you can see, the Riigikogu Hall takes this as an opportunity to mock them now, and as your waitress, you even laugh at it. I am truly amazed that, as such an intelligent person, you are putting such a very strange and populist call to support science.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U267	I get it. You will, of course, need a justification in order not to support this draft. That's what I've seen because of my ten-year experience. But dependants are largely everyone who receives money from the state budget, including parliamentarians. If the public function of public interest and law is fulfilled and the work is done well, then it is not a shame. In this sense, it is also no shame that the state budget finances the Development Monitoring Centre. Now, the question arises in the context of the budget, if it is true and indeed it is mostly true, it is the case that a large part of the members of the Riigikogu do not make use of their expenses benefits to the end. But on the basis of this residue, it is not possible to budget the jobs of the Development Monitoring Centre. This cannot be done because wage costs are listed as long-term liabilities and require permanent financing. It is not possible that, at the end of the year, we will see if we can pay the people of the Centre for Development, and that depends on how many colleagues from South Estonia went to their constituency during a week off. The lowering of this limit actually creates a permanent budget within the budget of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu and gives them confidence to continue. It gives them confidence and moral freedom to carry on their work. I think they're in a very peculiar position right now. Indeed, so lightly, the board decided to take half the money away from them, and with it opened the way that it has been said here that what exactly are they producing there, huh, I have never read these analyses. According to their degree of corruption, people have been able to talk about how much they know about the Development Monitoring Centre and what they think about this work there. I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U268	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U269	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! I am a little surprised that there are colleagues among us who are so angry about themselves and our former decision to set up a Monitoring Centre for Development. And I don't remember us discussing here that we should somehow reformate it or do something else with the Development Monitoring Centre. In this sense, this debate seems a bit surprising from the fellow Members. But I have a question for you: is your knowledge the same as in the case of the Orchestra of the Defence Forces that an irreversible decision has been made by the administration of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu? Although, as it turns out, money in the budget is much more than it was thought to be [to decide on the cuts], is it a decision that is not intended to be changed?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U270	Thank you for this question. No, I don't have that knowledge. Maybe the Commission waitress can enlighten us, maybe she has the knowledge. However, I also do not have the knowledge that there is a plan to reverse this decision. Indeed, we know that the economic forecast is better than expected, and it has been signalled that there is a plan to abandon the stupidest cuts. But whether the government's analysis is one of the stupidest decisions to be reversed or not, I don't know. The tragedy in this matter is that, of course, I don't know, when we talk about a cut in the education of interest, about the closure of commandos in internal security, I don't know, even the orchestra, they are at least very visible, high-weight and high-resonant decisions, for which there is really pressure from the public to abandon them [the cuts]. In the case of the Centre for Monitoring Development, we actually know, as is always the case with think tanks and analysts of this type, that the majority of people do not consume this product. He is not aimed at them either, is he not, as a decision-making support, mainly aimed at specialists, experts and also politicians? And so it's easy: uh, let's keep it shut, which is how we keep it, and no one sheds tears. In this Chamber too, many feel exactly that way. I hope that this change of mind will come, but also in this case, I think that this moment, as I said for a long time, could be used to correct other important basic functions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U271	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U272	Thank you, good manager. I'm glad Peter Ernits and I have so much in common. I think I'm an analyst, too. If you look at the analyses that will be prepared in Estonia during the year, what the Development Monitoring Centre is doing will actually look like. Analysis of the script for fields, such a systematic approach and the opportunity of the Riigikogu to contribute to the topics of analysis is unique. The fact that the Committee on Economic Affairs can agree on these issues is an excellent one to be examined by the Centre for Monitoring Development. I do not see that the ambassadors will be better informed or better able to make decisions than to cut the funding for the Development Monitoring Centre. I understand that issues may not seem to all of us to be equally important. Some prefer to analyse the tax structure, while others would like to hear about long-term care. The in-depth work was about shipping and the maritime economy. I look forward to the issue of future health work, the effects of the COVID-19 crisis being analysed. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] These are all important issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U273	Time, Riina!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U274	The question is, how do you see whether the ambassadors are better informed, whether we are making better decisions than cutting the Development Monitoring Centre? [[Something's been said in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U275	Mr President, has something happened to Jürgen Ligi?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U276	The usual!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U277	Do they make better decisions? Doesn't make better decisions. Of course, this lack of knowledge and analysis can be covered in a different way. It is possible theoretically to carry out these analyses in another place and can also read themselves more and so on. But basically the idea that the Development Monitoring Centre was at the time of its creation and what they have tried to fulfil, [is correct]. Of course, there are shortcomings, and it is also an evolving structure. So, in this sense, as Mr Sibul said, there could indeed be a debate in this Chamber on how this authority could even better support evidence-based decision-making. I'm sure it could be done. I have a few thoughts, too, and I'm not happy with everything, but it's perfectly normal. Expectations are different, that's clear. But without any alternative offer, just say that we don't need it, that we stick together there, well, I don't think that's right. This isn't right!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U278	Please, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U279	Thank you. I agree with you that this structure, which was created according to our own understanding and will, is fulfilling its function. And as far as budget control and possible better understanding of this is concerned, I'm sure that would be in place. But even in spite of his back, it is clear that wiser ambassadors have arrived in the hall, for whom everything is clear. I have the question: do you think it's possible for this observatory to replace it with the smartest person?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U280	I didn't understand the question. [[Something's been said in the hall.]] Jürgen Ligi wants to answer that, he might get that chance. No, I'm not going along with your provocation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U281	Right! Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U282	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Good waitress! One of my fellow officials asked whether this in any way offends the Development Monitoring Centre, that we are talking about him as a dependant and that we are looking for the means to continue his activities. I actually think that the Bureau's decision offended the Development Monitoring Centre and made them very sad. It was just a snap, so they could be eliminated. Rather, they were distressed. But my question is that suddenly the idea of not continuing to fund them came because, as you remember as former Minister of Health and Labour, they did an analysis of how much additional resources the Estonian Health Insurance Fund would need, so that our health care would continue and people would get help when they were sick. Do you remember that number they said for a long time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U283	Thank you for this two-part question. In answer to the first question, yes, of course it's ugly. This is not only ugly with regard to the Centre for Development Monitoring and the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. This is, in fact, a fundamental issue which concerns the other constitutional institutions. Remember, the head of the Supreme Court has told us now that I'm paraphrasing, I might be wrong with the exact wording that Thursday was called from the Ministry of Finance and said to keep there, I don't know how many hundred thousand together, that we'll expect you to make suggestions tomorrow, where you'll stick together. The Supreme Court is called by an official of the Ministry of Finance! It has been exactly the same in other constitutional institutions. In fact, to institutions aimed at balancing executive power in accordance with the Constitution, the executive official will call and say that we will take money from you. That's the situation. Here, the Riigikogu should certainly establish itself for the protection of other constitutional institutions in this matter. Of course, there are situations where the country's financial situation is poor. Everyone will then have to make savings, but in such a situation it is possible and certainly necessary to negotiate with the constitutional institutions in order to save something there too. But it's different. I'm sure you can't do it this way. Now the question of a specific analysis. This is not the only analysis that actually shows that this government does not own, and many of the former [did not] and probably many of the following do not have the ability to exercise due diligence or political will to do the things that need to be done today in a ten or 20 or 30 year perspective. Let's get the transport! A very good analysis was a transport analysis. I remember the minister came by to say that, oh, it's such a good analysis, shows how good we are, it's free public transport, and so on. In fact, the whole analysis showed that we will not achieve the goals that we have set ourselves. Caring is growing unbridled, emissions are growing unbridled and without additional measures that are certainly not politically popular, we will not achieve our goals. It is a painful truth that is brought home to us from there, and it is, of course, better not to hear than to hear. This also concerns a large number of other areas. I'm sure he is. In a way, it must feel good not knowing and then deciding or not making the necessary decisions. It's like they didn't tell you. [The other thing is] when you are told that you should do something, but for whatever reason [necessary] decisions are not made. However, I think the main reason for this decision has been indiscretion. It was just made mechanically. When the cut came, the board picked up the table and looked at that ah, let's take it from there. With thoughtless tasks such as Riina Sikkut rightly said, it tends to go. In general, no increase in quality has ever occurred in any institution as a result of the mechanical execution of such a cut-off target.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U284	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U285	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! I wanted to be more specific. There was once a questioner here who told me that this was the liquidation of the Development Monitoring Centre. I still understand that we are talking about a cut, not liquidation. Could you elaborate on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U286	Yeah, as far as I know, there's a plan to cut half the budget for this institution. Well, the question is, from where does a cut turn into liquidation? Half may not be a real liquidation yet, but it's clear that if you theoretically take 95% of the budget of an institution, but you say no, we're not shutting it down, we're just reducing its costs, then we realise that it's practically impossible to maintain such an institution. Perhaps it is more correct to formulate it in such a way that, within the framework of these tasks and the future plans that this institution has had, and which have been the route and trajectory of this institution, the studies they are doing are long-term, planned several years in advance and carried out several years in advance, it is not possible for this institution to continue with half the budget. Then he becomes a little bit of a thing. Well, there are suggestions here that we add him to our Legal and Analytical Department, which still produces documents and analyses in a completely different format. That's something else. Then it can be said that, in this form, it will be eliminated and replaced by something completely different. But, well, it is more correct to say yes that it is important to reduce funding.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U287	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U288	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable waitress! I did not get an answer to my question as to whether this proposal of yours was coordinated with the Centre for Monitoring Development. And secondly, it seems to me that your own [explanatory] letter, or your proposal in conjunction with this draft, also states that, as you know, this is a [half] cut-off and extinction. These are two completely different statements. And it's actually a negotiation. So are we talking about what the fate of the Development Monitoring Centre is at this point in the rumours? What is the database you know on which you are relying? I have not seen such a cut in the [budget] on black white. I am as concerned about the Development Monitoring Centre as you are, and I support their actions. This morning, I saw interesting proposals and analysis of long-term care, I am counting on OTRK to help them with the issue of higher education. So I support their actions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U289	Yeah, it was the spring board's decision. The Management Board was required to inform the Ministry of Finance, like the Chairman of the Supreme Court, how it intends to save half a million euros. The Bureau discussed this and reached such a proposal. The biggest cut hits the Development Monitoring Centre. It had also been pointed out that the Riigikogu Toimetised would be taken with the finger and probably somewhere else. No, it is not set in stone; of course, it is possible for the board to review this decision. I haven't been able to get the information that they're planning on doing this. Probably unless the government should refrain from cutting the budget of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. The Development Monitoring Centre, I believe, agrees to continue with the stable budget that we have had so far. I don't think they're against us making that decision. I don't see any reason why they won't support it. Well, the detailed question is that maybe they wouldn't support it if they knew it would come with a cut in the expenses of members of the Riigikogu. I didn't ask them that. I have not asked them that question, but I think Members are sovereign in deciding on their expenses. In this context, we, as legislators, also have the right to have a say as to which sources are financed by the Centre for Monitoring Development. So I think it is a worthy proposal to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U290	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. And now I call for another waitress, which is Kalle Grünthal, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U291	Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I am reporting a draft of the Social Democratic Party that wants to amend the Act on Membership of the Riigikogu. And this text is as follows: amend section 30 of the Act and formulate it as follows: " ((1) A member of the Riigikogu is compensated for work-related expenses on the basis of the expense documents up to 30% of the salary of a member of the Riigikogu in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Riigikogu Board. Until the end of the term of office of the XIV Riigikogu, a member of the Riigikogu is compensated for the work-related expenses on the basis of expenditure documents up to 20% of the salary of a member of the Riigikogu in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Executive Board of the Riigikogu. (2) The maximum amount of work-related expenditure to be reimbursed to a member of the Management Board of the Riigikogu is 50 per cent of the amount specified in subsection 1 of this section. " And the purpose of this amendment of the law is justified by the Social Democrats as follows: "Keep the necessary amount in the budget of the Riigikogu to save long-term monitoring of development, which is an important part of knowledge-based decision-making. Instead, the required amount according to the bill is kept at the expense of the expenses of the members of the Riigikogu." As a reminder, § 30 of the current Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu Act is such that a member of the Riigikogu is compensated for work-related expenses on the basis of expense documents up to 30% of the salary of a member of the Riigikogu according to the procedure established by the Board of the Riigikogu. Until the end of the term of office of the Riigikogu, a member of the Riigikogu is compensated for work-related expenses on the basis of the cost documents up to 10% of the salary of a member of the Riigikogu in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Riigikogu Board. As a reminder, I will use the decision of the Riigikogu Executive Board, where point 2 contains a list of expenses related to the work of a member of the Riigikogu, i.e. travel expenses, communication and postal expenses, mission expenses, office expenses, training costs, representation and reception costs, translation costs, accommodation costs, studies, expert analyses and enquiries. I am not going to speak them up any more, because as members of the Riigikogu, you are very well aware of all this. But what happened in the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu in preparation of the draft law amending the status of a member of the Riigikogu initiated by the Social Democratic Party and Raimond Kaljulaid for the first reading. Lauri Läänemets explained the reasons and motives and then came a round of questions and answers where Paul Puustusmaa asked how the initiators of the draft had analysed the draft's compliance with § 75 of the Constitution. In addition to the salary of the members of the Riigikogu, this section also talks about restrictions on changing the income from work. Is this bill not contrary to § 75 of the Constitution? Lauri Läänemets replied that the practice of reducing the cost benefits has been analysed and the Riigikogu has also reduced the cost benefits in the past. I will, of course, be narcissistic to make it clear, reading out the justification that there really is no such contradiction with the Constitution. This subject did run through the whole session, and it was only at the end of the sitting that we reached that result. In fact, there is a decision of the General Assembly of the Supreme Court of 23 February 2009, which states that the prohibition under § 75 of the Constitution on benefits related to the work of a member of the Riigikogu does not extend according to the wording of that provision. For example, in employment relations and in the public service, work-related benefits are not considered as part of the legislator's salary. The Supreme Court interprets this in such a way that the procedure for the reimbursement of these expenses can also be changed for the current composition of the Riigikogu. It is as it has been predictably said that, in principle, this discussion, which we had in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, finally subsided. There is no contradiction with the Constitution. And, of course, I also mentioned that there might be a constitutional problem in this regard, and I expressed the view that the objective of this draft could be achieved in a simpler way. Cost benefits are also often used to lease cars, which the members of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia do not do because they pay leases on their wages. Therefore, one option would have been to change the classification for which the costs were reimbursed. But Lauri Läänemets thought that my option was not suitable for solving the problem, because the amount of the cost benefits remained the same. In order to ensure that the budget of the Centre for Development does not fall, the expenditure allowances should be reduced, the budget should be raised from one line to the other. Oudekki Loone said that the Centre for Monitoring Development was not mentioned in the text of the draft and that the budget of the Centre for Monitoring Development was not much increased by 10% of the savings in the cost benefits. And Oudekki Loone also noted that the current system of cost benefits for members of the Riigikogu could perhaps be abolished if members of the Riigikogu were guaranteed an office or at least an assistant, as is the case in many other countries. This would enable members of the Riigikogu to do more detailed and substantive work in the legislative process. Lauri Läänemets replied that the purpose of this draft was not to increase the capacity of the Monitoring Centre for Development. The money generated by reducing the cost benefits included in the draft is sufficient to ensure that the Centre for Monitoring Development does not need to bring people together, as is currently planned. Next [I spoke] in the round of opinions and questions. I have given an example of the fact that not all expenses have been spent and there are also months where a member of the Riigikogu pays extra work-related expenses in case of higher expenses. I also noted that the members of the Social Democratic Party Group may have a problem with the fact that they are not so popular among the people, and this draft seeks to cut down on the working capacity of serious parties in order to make progress on this. Lauri Läänemets opted for it by explaining that, by denying the payment of car leases for expenses, it would not bring more money to the Development Monitoring Centre. The amount planned for cost compensation remains the same. In order to transfer the remaining funds from the expenditure payments to the budget of the Development Monitoring Centre, the reimbursement of expenditure should be reduced. Then Paul Puustusmaa intervened in the debate, who mentioned that the aim of the draft was to prevent the liquidation of the Centre for Monitoring Development, but the question arises that if the draft were adopted as a law, how would it actually prevent the liquidation of the Centre for Monitoring Development? That doesn't make any sense to him. Lauri Läänemets' answer was that the Government of the Republic has not ordered the Chancellery of the Riigikogu to cut specific lines from the budget, but has given orders to cut a certain percentage of the budget. In order to make a cut in the size needed, the choice of the Riigikogu Board has been to cut the budget of the Development Monitoring Centre. If expenses are reduced until the end of the current Riigikogu, the Chancellery of the Riigikogu does not need to cut the budget of the Development Monitoring Centre. Now Oudekki Loone gave his opinion, who found this bill to be very strange. If the Centre for Monitoring Development is to be maintained, it should come up with a draft providing for an increase in the budget of the Centre for Monitoring Development. Or make a draft decision to the Riigikogu, which says that no people working for the Chancellery of the Riigikogu will be made redundant. Lauri Läänemets pointed out that the Social Democratic Party Group has proposed its own solution in the form of a draft, and that is the question of whether or not to support this solution. And if the coalition comes up with a draft saying that the budget of the Monitoring Centre for Development will not be cut, then the Group of the Social Democratic Party will support it. I added that the text of the draft does not reflect that the draft is intended to save the Centre for Monitoring Development. Mr Läänemets' answer was again an explanation that the text of the draft does not really mention the Development Monitoring Centre, but at the same time the law can change the things that are stated in the law. Then, for a long time, Toomas Kivimägi, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, intervened in this discussion, who said that since the expenses of a member of the Riigikogu are intended to cover expenses related to the work of a member of the Riigikogu, the draft has an impact on the work of the entire Riigikogu. For example, spending on transport depends on which area a member of the Riigikogu comes from and how far the electoral district of a member of the Riigikogu is located. If the travel costs of members of the Riigikogu are significantly reduced, it becomes somewhat more difficult for members of the Riigikogu from remote areas to carry out their work. Toomas Kivimägi noted that, in addition to everything else, there is some populism in the draft. And there you can also see a certain message before the local government council elections and the future Riigikogu elections. Lauri Läänemets opted for him and told him that the Socialist Group considers that the Centre for Development Monitoring is significantly more important for the editing of the Estonian state, democracy, the analytical capacity of the Riigikogu than for any member of the Riigikogu to be able to lease Volvo. You can always drive a few cheaper cars, and you can do your necessary rides nicely. Before taking procedural decisions, Toomas Kivimägi explained that he has also stood for the survival of the Development Monitoring Centre and that the budget of the Development Monitoring Centre is now planned to be cut significantly less than at the beginning. At first, we were talking about the loss of the Centre for Monitoring Development, and now there has been a significant change in this regard, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also made a substantial contribution to this in one of its draft proceedings. In particular, the Demographic Crisis Resolution Problem Committee was closed and saved EUR 100000 per year. Toomas Kivimägi also noted that the economy has done well in the first quarter and, if this continues to happen, Parliament has the right to review the plan of cuts and to decide that the budget of the Centre for Monitoring Development does not need to be cut at all. This was briefly the final conclusion of the sitting. In the end, Toomas Kivimägi, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, proposed that procedural decisions be taken and as a result it was proposed to put the draft on the plenary agenda (this was achieved in a consensual manner) and to propose that the draft be rejected. Toomas Kivimägi, Andrei Korobeinik, Oudekki Loone, Marko Storm, Mart Võrguship, voted against Kalle Grünthal, Lauri Läänemets, Paul Puustusmaa, Urmas Reinsalu, with zero abstentions. And then it was decided to appoint Kalle Grünthal, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as rapporteur. The decision was consensual. This is in short the preparation for the first reading of the 396 draft law dealt with by the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U292	There are questions for the waitress. Evgeny Ossinovski, please! Evgeny, question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U293	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, This meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was held in June where it was discussed. There was a question today that I don't know the answer to. As the leading trustee of this draft, have you been informed of the thoughts of the Riigikogu Board, the Government, the Ministry of Finance in this regard? You said there was hope on Mr. Kivimägi. How is his spiritual condition today on this issue? Do you have any kind of identification for us?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U294	I'll put it this way so it makes more sense to ask the question of identity from Toomas Kivimäe, who is sitting right here in the hall. I don't have any information on that. However, I would like to mention one more point, which is extremely important for the whole of this draft, extremely important. Evgeny Ossinovski, in this hall, once on the remote, said that EKRE always needs evidence-based research, of course through irony. But I say that, in fact, this evidence-based investigation must always be carried out in the case of the social democrats. And the reason is that the aim of the draft proposed by them is absolutely wrong. First of all, the four of us, who believed in Lauri West Forest's smile and the slippery story, were that it really is true what the Soviets want with it. But the question is, right now... Don't get upset, please! The thing is, I started checking how real their bill's realization is. The result was amazing. We want to save money on expenses. But the question is that all the money left over by the office is seeking to transfer this amount to the new financial year and is used for repairing political groups and public premises and IT costs. This means that the amount that is currently being proposed cannot be transferred from the Riigikogu budget to the Development Monitoring Centre, as the Development Monitoring Centre has been set up under the Development Monitoring Act and its budget is absolutely separate. This purpose cannot be changed when the residue is transferred. The budget of the Development Monitoring Centre is specifically mentioned in the State Budget Act, and in the financial system, the budget of the Development Monitoring Centre must be dealt with separately in the context of the state budget. I personally see the Socialist attempt to reduce the cost benefits of all members of the Riigikogu so that we cannot work normally.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U295	Jevgeni Ossinovski, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U296	Oh, Kalle, now you're freaking out. I'm sorry, you didn't get any clearer. You really messed it up. It was said that if you'd been listening to me, that right now, because the limits are high, the money that's left over will be transferred and the walls will be painted for it. In order for this money to take over the stable fixed cost, which is the salary costs of the Development Monitoring Centre, it must be rebudgeted as a stable cost within the budget of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. It is precisely that the 500000 which we now have budgeted for each financial year on the line of the expenditure grants that must be budgeted on the line of the Monitoring Centre for Development. In this case, the total budget can be reduced by half a million euros in such a way that the budget of the Monitoring Centre for Development remains exactly the same. You get a lot of times that you start looking into more, and then it gets messy. However, can you tell whether there is any understanding in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs right now, whether or not this cut is moving forward?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U297	The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has taken its decision to reject the draft. All further questions can be answered by Toomas Kivimägi because we did not deal with this question there. When it comes to going rogue, it seems to me, good Evgeny, that there is another moment in which your action behind the so-called malleable smile may be a fist behind your back.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U298	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U299	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good Kalle! Please, remind me, refresh my memory. I'm not entirely convinced of [one thing]. You see, we have repeatedly analysed all kinds of cost benefits when discussing austerity policies on different occasions. Did we now mention that savings could be achieved in the way that the EKRE Group has done so so that everyone would refrain from paying for the car? Right now, everyone else is using it. Wasn't that the subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U300	Well, it was. I mean, I mentioned that this subject was discussed, yes. I proposed that other ambassadors behave in the same way as the ambassadors of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, who pay their car leases on their wages, rather than allowing the state to pay for the expenses. It was during the debate, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U301	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U302	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I have actually been in the Chamber throughout the debate on this point and have not been out in the meantime. At one point, I really looked back at the date when the bill was filed. I mean, sometimes I realized that you were making a speech because no one asked you that, but you started making it like a speech about how the Social Democrats went down. But my question isn't about that. Here's my question. Since EKRE has decided not to use cost benefits to lease cars, I very much appreciate that. But do you think the money goes somewhere else instead of painting the walls? Actually, you're saving up on leasing a car or something else, but today they're still painting walls for that money.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U303	Yes, this money goes back to the office when an application is made to transfer it to the next financial year and is used to paint political groups, by the way, also the walls of the Socialist Group, in addition to ours, of course, and to repair public spaces and, of course, IT costs. If the esteemed Helmen Hunter, for example, breaks the battery of the computer, we have several to spare.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U304	Thank you. This is also the end of the Commission's accompanying report and we can go to decision-making. The Steering Committee has proposed to reject draft 396 at first reading. Before we vote, we should invite the hall... Oh, I'm sorry! I forgot the negotiations. I'm sorry! First, the negotiations. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski! In the meantime, I thought you were negotiating.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U305	Thank you! Just a presentation by the Commission, to a large extent a negotiating speech, needs to be answered in a number of respects. Now, of course, he's gone again, so it's hard to get a comprehensive picture of the question if he doesn't hear it before or after you talk. It's happened before. But the question is for the rest of us and the protocol. Indeed, the cost of members of the Riigikogu is planned in the state budget according to the maximum cost benefits and there is always money left over from there, but it is not possible to foresee how much money will be left over, is it not, because all Members of Parliament are free to use the cost benefits within the framework of the law, within the limits of the law. The level of use of the cost benefit depends on a number of factors, including, for example, fuel prices and other prices in the same way. Therefore, it is not possible, in fact, to plan any other expenditure based on this surplus as a fixed annual cost and that is why it is used as a one-off item. If there's money, we paint the wall, if there's no money, we don't paint it. Every year, there's a sum, and every year, something is painted too. But do you think that it is possible to build the Centre for Monitoring Development, and in essence, the right balance of money left over from the Members of Parliament? No, this cannot be done and it is neither right nor fair. Of course, when it comes to saving transport costs, for example, by different ambassadors, that is really the possibility. A lot of people use it, and I don't lease a car like that. As a result, I have little use of cost benefits in general. But this will not solve the problem of the Centre for Monitoring Development, as long as Parliament does not decide at law level to bring this threshold down. If he has brought this threshold down, it is known that this is the upper limit of the financial costs and that the rest of the money can indeed also take over the salary costs at the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, in this case by the Development Monitoring Centre. Unfortunately, Mr Grünthal understood exactly what was real. It's amazing that he can do it, but not for the first time. So, in general, as I can understand from this debate, there are no objections to this draft. This is a really good plan, and I'm counting on your support.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U306	Now, I don't see any more requests for negotiation. I'm closing the negotiations. And now we can go to decision-making. Ow, look, Peter Ernits! We made it, let's do it. What are we gonna argue for half an hour, whether we can or can't? If there are negotiations, there are negotiations. Please, Peter!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U307	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I don't have a finger as fast as my old colleague Urmas Kruus. But that's it. Unlike my good colleague, Jevgeni Ossinovski, my colleagues and I do not pay the car lease for the expenses. You're all gonna pay or most of it. [[Ossinovsky says from the hall he said he wouldn't pay.]] Okay, you don't pay, but it's... [[In the Laughing Hall.]] And again, although I'm an enslaving lunch ambassador, I'm driving a lot, I'd be willing to give up some of the expenses, but not for the institution that Evgeny brings up in this bill. They say, in difficult times, the devil is willing to eat flies. Well, that's a great old devil's fly-eating bill here. In general, I agree with Evgen that we need to introduce ourselves more in the Riigikogu so that we are not such rubber stamps, so that we have more competence, etc. We have no disagreement here. But what has happened here, even today... Ladies and gentlemen here on my left now drew on the idea of setting up a committee of inquiry. I repeat again that, unlike Jürgen Ligi, my approach was that we did not condemn anyone, but because there are tensions, we could exercise parliamentary control. It's possible everything was great. Everyone did what they had to do. But party discipline on water. Another thing, in spring, was the Special Committee on the Population Crisis [question], was the need to save $100,000. It's pointless! It was there that two lovely ladies got together, Mailis Reps and Kaja Kallas, and it was decided that you would take one special committee or not, and Mailis would take it into Estonian, but Kaja said he didn't need it. That's how it works, actually. I don't want to close your time for long. I say the idea is good in principle, the light and the mind should let more into the house. But where this money is going to go, I and my group do not agree with [direct]. I'm not gonna give this gang a penny. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U308	Let's try to renegotiate. I don't see any more calls. Let's try to get to the vote for the third time. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject draft 396 at first reading. And before we vote, two minutes of the hall call. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall put to the vote the draft proposal by the commission of reference to reject it at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U309	The rejection is supported by 65 delegates, 12 against, no abstentions. The rejection decision has been approved. Now, the next item was to be the draft law amending the Electronic Communications Act, the Building Code and the State Fees Act 301, but the item cannot be opened because the documents on which the debate is based have not been made available to the members of the Riigikogu in time. As a result, the discussion is impossible under § 62 and § 73 of the Rules of Procedure Act of the Riigikogu. The debate will be postponed to the next week.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U310	Let's go from here to the next item on the agenda. This is draft law 385, initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Mauritius on the avoidance of double taxation and the ratification of the Agreement on Tax Avoidance and Prevention of Tax Fraud and the Protocol thereto. This is a second reading, and the rapporteur is Mr Dmitri Dmitriev, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U311	Ladies and gentlemen, The draft for the preparation of the second reading was discussed by the Committee on Finance on 14 June and further on 13 September. In short, the purpose of the DTC is to encourage investment between the Contracting Parties. In order to achieve this objective, the agreement limits the income tax that the source country may impose on the income of residents of another country, ensures equal treatment of persons and eliminates possible double taxation. No amendments were tabled on the draft by the deadline of 16 June, members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees. Therefore, the Commission made the following consensual decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by Wednesday 15 September, to conclude the second reading and to conclude the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U312	Thank you. As has already been said, no amendments have been tabled to this draft. There's a way to negotiate. I don't see any negotiation requests. Then we can go to the vote. And before the vote, let's do the hall call again. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the commission's proposal for a final vote on the draft 385. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U313	The draft was supported by 70 delegates, with no votes against and no abstentions. The bill has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U314	The next item is draft law 361 on the amendment of the Employment Contracts Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. We are at second reading and I call Mr Järveoja, member of the Social Affairs Committee, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U315	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Under this draft directive, the European Union directive specifying the right of care-indebted workers and officials to ask for flexible working and working conditions, such as part-time or flexible working hours, teleworking opportunities, etc. will be transposed. The right to ask for flexible working conditions does not entail an obligation for employers or authorities to grant the requested conditions, but the employer must justify his refusal in such circumstances. In addition, the duty of care shall provide additional protection for the staff member and the official when the contract of employment is cancelled or dismissed and the burden of proof put forward in disputes concerning the termination or dismissal of the contract of employment. In addition, the 10-day waiting period for entering into an employment contract with a minor of 13 to 14 years shall be abolished from the date of registration of the minor in the register of employment. This obligation will continue to apply to recruitment for the age of 7 to 12 years. The Government Office approved the amendment on 18 June 2020. The regulation on parental leave adopted in October 2018 with amendments to the system of parental leave and benefits will also be improved. The first reading of Draft Act 361 amending the Employment Contracts Act and related amendments to other laws was completed on 21 April. The deadline for tabling amendments was 5 May at 5.15 p.m. No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees. In preparing the draft, the Social Affairs Committee asked stakeholders involved in the Ministry of Social Affairs for an opinion on the draft. The Social Affairs Committee received its opinion from the Estonian Employers' Confederation, the Labour Inspectorate, the Estonian Employers' Confederation, the Chancellor of Justice, the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Gender Equality and Equal Treatment Commissioner. The lead committee proposed one amendment to the draft. The Commission discussed the draft at its second reading meeting of 10 May, 31 May, 3 June, 7 June and 14 June. At its meeting on 10 May, the representative of the Alliance for Child Protection drew attention to the problems contained in the draft and noted that neither the draft law nor the explanation of how it was intended to prevent violations of the recruitment of minors were stated. The representative of the Labour Inspectorate explained that the Labour Inspectorate sees information as a solution through the information system for working life, but the development resource is limited and the process time-consuming. He noted that the Labour Inspectorate considered this change to be a good objective, but that its entry into force needed more preparatory work. The Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee proposed that the Labour Inspectorate and the Ministry of Social Affairs could find a common solution to the problem of how the draft and its implementation would enter into force at the same time. At the meeting of 31 May, a representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs stated that the Ministry of Social Affairs, together with the Labour Inspectorate, had reached the conclusion that the date of entry into force of the draft should be postponed until 1 September 2022. In this case, the Labour Inspectorate would be able to develop the working life information system in such a way as to be as automatic as possible while maintaining a system of information for parents, minors and employers. The Committee on Social Affairs supported the proposal to postpone the date of entry into force of the Act until 1 September 2022. The parties also attended the meeting on 7 June. The Commission heard the views of the Ministry of Social Affairs and stakeholders and the amendment to the draft was also examined. The chairman of the committee was authorised to sign the procedural documents for the second reading of the draft. At the meeting on 14 June, it was decided to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the 18th working week of the plenary session of the Riigikogu be included in the plenary session of the Riigikogu, i.e. the 14th working week17. Second reading of the Act amending the Employment Contracts Act and related amendments to other laws out of the June agenda. The committee decided to propose the second reading of draft 361 on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 15 September, i.e. today, and to propose the end of the second reading. In addition, when the second reading was closed, the Commission proposed to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda for the third reading and that the final vote be held on 22 September. So, amendment. The proposal of the commission amends the wording of § 6 of the draft and postpones the date of entry into force of the amendment to 1 September 2022 in order to enable the Labour Inspectorate to develop an automatic information system for working life. Procedural decisions and proposals of the lead committee. The Committee on Social Affairs proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading, including 15 September, and that the second reading be terminated. When the second reading is closed, the Commission's proposal to put the draft for the third reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu, including by 22 September. That would be all on my side, on the Commission's side right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U316	The Riigikogu can also ask questions, but I do not see questions. So thank you very much to the waitress. It is now possible to open negotiations. Neither do you see the wish for negotiations. Then, as has been mentioned, there is one amendment. In order to examine the amendment, we need nothing more than to say that the amendment is tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs. The Commission itself has taken full account of this. If someone doesn't ask us to vote, he'll go in automatically. Second reading is complete. To open the next item, we need a minister who will need a few more minutes. I'll take the manager's break five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U317	Ladies and gentlemen, Break is over, we can go to the item on the agenda. First reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Penal Code and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm inviting Secretary of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimine to report.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U318	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for the delay first. You have before you the draft law 407 amending, in particular, the law on covered bonds. This is a draft that was approved by the government in June this year and was also under discussion in the Committee on Monetary Affairs in mid-June. The current law on covered bonds, which is primarily intended to be amended and updated by this amendment, entered into force for the first time in Estonia only on 1 March 2019, so it is quite fresh. Before that, banks were not able to issue covered bonds in Estonia. To date, this option has been used, i.e. two banks have issued covered bonds: Luminor and LHV. Why do we want to change this law on covered bonds? The first part of the objectives relates to the clarification and amendment of the rules allowing the creation of a single cross-Baltic covered bond market. In doing so, there is a proposal to change the rules that would allow Estonian banks to issue covered bonds more easily across borders. These changes also provide an opportunity to use covered bonds as collateral in all three Baltic States. And these requirements would be harmonised in the three Baltic States. For example, if an Estonian credit institution should have branches or daughters in other Baltic countries, it would have the possibility to include housing loans issued through Latvian and Lithuanian daughters in its covered bond portfolio, in addition to housing loans issued in Estonia. Predictably: at the same time, Latvia and Lithuania are making similar changes to their laws, so that the legal space that exists in the three Baltic countries is uniform. Why do you need it? A single Baltic covered bond market, the possibility of doing so will certainly create a larger scale effect than if the capital markets in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania were treated separately. The second part of this draft and the reasons why I am in front of Parliament today is linked to the transposition of the provisions of the European Union covered bonds directive. This concerns in particular the rules on how to provide more information to covered bond holders, investors. And the regulation of cooperation between supervisory authorities is similarly enshrined in the provisions of that directive. It must also be admitted that the directive had to be transposed by 8 July. The provisions which will become applicable as a result of its transposition into Estonian law should apply from 8 July of the following year. Perhaps also in the background that the draft itself does not change this conservative approach to issuing and securing covered bonds. At the same time, the amendments contained in the draft should help to encourage the issuance of covered bonds, so that in addition to the two banks already mentioned, which have already issued covered bonds in Estonia, other banks who issue mortgage loans could also be interested in this. These are Swedbank and SEB above all, but also to some extent Coop and Bigbank. I ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U319	Thank you. There are also questions for the rapporteur. Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U320	Thank you. Dear Minister, It has been a long time since we discussed it in the Committee on Monetary Affairs in June. I don't remember all the points, but there's one question I've had. It was said here that, in the context of this draft, the subject is the promotion of the Baltic common bond market. It is known this model of how this collateral is accounted for. We have a registry-based calculation of collateral assets, but Latvia and Lithuania have a different model, and there is a separate company to keep these assets. It is not known why Latvia and Lithuania chose a completely different model than Estonia? And is this Latvian and Lithuanian model better or is it worse than the Estonian solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U321	Thank you. I'm sure that's a good question. I believe that when the Penal Code was originally passed in Estonia in 2019, it was probably convinced that this model, which is applied in Estonia, is the best possible for us. Indeed, the difference is that our law on covered bonds provides for a model in which the issuer owns and holds the covered bonds. And they're registered in a separate guarantee register. As the questioner pointed out, Latvia and Lithuania have designed a structure in which a special purpose vehicle is created in English, i.e. a special purpose company that holds the collateral separately from the issuer. I also said in my introduction that the aim is still to achieve the same approach as possible in the three Baltic States, and so we are supplementing our law on covered bonds with provisions that actually provide for the protection of collateral assets at the same level as it is in Latvia and Lithuania in a special purpose enterprise. In this sense, the final solution or the end result is very similar, despite the fact that indeed Latvia-Lithuania this structure has been chosen slightly different.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U322	Thank you. No further questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U323	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U324	And now it is possible to come to Aivar Sõerdi with the presentation by the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U325	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance of the Riigikogu discussed the draft 407 at its meeting on 14 June. In addition to the Minister of Finance, Thomas Honourable Head of the Financial Markets Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance and the advisers of the Financial Markets Policy Department Valner Lille and Kadri Siibak were also present at the discussion. And indeed, the brief summary of the content of the draft is that the draft will transpose the European Union Directive on the issuance of covered bonds and the public oversight of covered bonds into the Penal Code. It amends the earlier corresponding directives. The draft provides for a better possibility for credit institutions to issue covered bonds whose underlying assets are located in the Member States of the European Union. This concerns the Baltic States in particular, because banking groups are largely active here. The changes will allow more integration of the Baltic capital markets. In short, I will also give an overview of the debate that we had at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 14 June. Minister Keit Pentus-Rosimannus presented the objectives and content of the draft. We already heard that. I'm not gonna go over it. There was a question about what the Minister was dealing with: the deadline for transposition of the directive was 8 July, so why did the draft come at the last minute of the Commission? That is what the chairman of the committee asked. The Minister explained that the draft had passed two rounds of coordination, received quite a number of comments and their negotiation took longer than planned. One such issue was the opinion of the Banking Association, which concerned the supervisor of collateral, which may not be an audit firm, which has been the financial auditor of the issuer of covered bonds over the past year. Market participants have been of the opinion that such a restriction is excessively restrictive, but the Financial Supervision Authority does not agree. The Financial Supervision Authority continues to believe that a restriction is necessary. And actually, in the original version of the bill, it was written for as many as three years. The speaker himself asked that the regulation of covered bonds has been in place for quite a long time, but for some reason the issuers have not been active. Only two banks have issued these instruments. The question was whether this draft could increase the interest in issuing, so that the number of issuers would expand. Then there was the question of who are the investors to whom these bonds are mainly directed and whether there would ever be a time when they were given or sold to retail investors. The Minister explained that the original draft became a law only in spring 2019 and therefore for a very long time has not been in force. But why, for example, has Swedbank or SEB not taken this opportunity? One reason may be that they have enough customer deposits. At the same time, there is harmonisation of requirements in the Baltic States and the possibility of creating a Baltic market could increase this interest. Thomas Honourable further explained that I have already said that there are many deposits in banks, the volume of deposits has increased very quickly and there is therefore no practical need. In general, investors are indeed institutional investors, as a rule they are pension funds, other banks or central banks. However, there are also examples that in some Member States covered bonds are also offered to retail investors, this is not prohibited. My colleague, Aivar Kokk, noted that many proposals and comments on the draft have come from stakeholders, most of which have been taken into account. He wondered whether there were parties who wanted to amend the draft text, but the Government and the Ministry felt that the amendment was not the best or that the amendments were not the best. The Minister explained that the Banking Association has been debating this proposal concerning an audit firm that has been an auditor of an issuer of covered bonds during the year. This is the kind of audit firm that can't be a collateral checker for a covered bond. Thomas the Honourable also added that this was also the only subject where the difference of opinion remained. Could the bank's usual financial auditor at the same time also be an auditer of the covered bond portfolio? The Ministry is of the opinion that rather not, and this [the provision] has also been considered necessary by the Financial Supervision Authority. This was a summary of the Commission's debate. The Committee on Monetary Affairs took the following consensual decisions: Firstly, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 15 September. Secondly, propose that the first reading be completed. Thirdly, to appoint a rapporteur here, a Member of the Commission. Fourthly, it is proposed that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 29 September. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U326	Thank you. There are also questions for the waitress. Toomas Järveoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U327	Thank you. The Minister said that the Latvian and Lithuanian Parliaments also deal with this draft law. I have a question: can you tell me how far they're going with their affairs? Do they have a first reading yet?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U328	I don't have any information about that. But we can specify that. We will ask our colleagues in Latvia and Lithuania, and I will be able to give this information at second reading at the latest. If we do sooner, I'll let you know sooner. At the moment, I do not know how far the Latvian and Lithuanian legislators are dealing with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U329	No further questions. We can open negotiations. Representatives of the political groups may take the floor during the negotiations. I don't see the wish for negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 407 be completed. First reading is complete. The deadline for tabling amendments is 29 September at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U330	Our seventh item today is the first reading of draft 404 of the Law of Obligations Act and Amendment of Consumer Protection Act initiated by the Government of the Republic (transposition of the Digital Content, Consumer Sales and the Modified Consumer Rights Directive). The rapporteur is Mr Maris Lauri, Minister of Justice. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U331	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will introduce you to the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act and the Consumer Protection Act concerning digital content, consumer sales and the transposition of the amended consumer rights directives. The purpose of this draft is to transpose into Estonian law the Digital Content Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, the new Consumer Sales Directive and the amendment of consumer rights in the Directive on the modernisation of consumer rights. The current legislation does not regulate digital content or services in this form. It fills the legal gap and ensures consumer protection in this area as well. The existing consumer sales rules will be modernised to take account of the specific features of the digital element and further harmonised in order to reduce differences in sales law in the Member States of the European Union. The aim of harmonising these rules is to reduce the uncertainty caused by the complexity of the regulatory framework for both businesses and consumers. It also reduces costs for economic operators resulting from differences in contract rights between Member States. Harmonised and clear consumer protection rules will also increase consumer confidence. The deadline for transposition of the Digital Content Directive and the new Consumer Sales Directive was 1 July this year, but the amendments will have to enter into force next year. This is exactly what could happen to you under the proposed bill. The deadline for transposition of the Directive on the modernisation of consumer rights is 28 November this year and the amendments must enter into force by 28 May next year. According to the draft, this could happen in Estonia on 20 May next year, perhaps somewhat earlier. Now, the changes that are being made under the bill. Digital content is regulated by paid contracts between a business and a consumer, which provide the consumer with digital content or a digital service. Digital content or service include, for example, software, smartphone applications, computer games, e-books, streaming services, cloud solutions, social media and more. Digital content contracts are currently subject to very little regulation in European Union law, which makes consumer rights less protected in terms of consumption of digital content than in terms of physical matter or service. The draft establishes the concept of digital content transfer and digital service contract and complements the Law of Obligations Act with a separate section in which these contracts are regulated. These rules apply in conjunction with the rules for a particular type of contract, for example in the case of the sale of digital content together with the rules for sales contracts. A situation in which the consumer presents his personal data to the undertaking shall also be considered equivalent to payment for digital content or service. This is a common business model in the market where the trader uses the personal data of the consumer, for example, in order to send future targeted advertising and offers to the consumer. The draft also aims to provide the consumer with contractual protection in such situations. The draft provides for legal requirements to be met by digital content or service. The parties will be able to regulate the conformity requirements on a contractual basis, but if there is a derogation from the law, the consumer must be informed of this at the time of conclusion of the contract and the consumer must explicitly and separately agree to such a derogation at the time of conclusion of the contract. The draft provides for the responsibility of the trader if there is a shortage of digital content or service, for example if a music file downloaded from the Internet does not start playing on the consumer's device or if a smart app stops working. In the case of a one-off supply of digital content or digital service, such as the purchase of a computer program, the operator shall be liable for a deficiency which existed in the supply of digital content or service and which occurs within two years of the delivery of digital content or service. In the case of a continuous transfer or provision of digital content or service, here we are talking about, for example, flow-transmission services, the company is responsible for the deficiencies that occur throughout the contract. A reverse burden of proof for the benefit of the consumer is envisaged. If a deficiency occurs within one year of the supply of digital content or service, it is assumed that it existed at the time of the supply of digital content or service. In the case of a continuous transfer or provision of digital content or service, this shall be assumed throughout the duration of the contract. The draft regulates the remedies available to the consumer in the event of non-compliance with the terms of the contract. To this end, there is a flexible hierarchy of legal remedies. The consumer must first demand that the digital content or service be brought into conformity with the terms of the contract. Secondly, it is possible to exercise the right to reduce the price or terminate the contract. The draft does not affect the consumer's right to refuse to comply with his obligation or to claim damages. The draft regulation regulates both the undertaking's obligations for the renewal of digital content and services to ensure that digital content or service contract conditions are met and the possibility for the undertaking to further modify digital content or service. Now, about consumer sales contracts. The draft clarifies the existing rules, inter alia, because of the specificities of the digital element. A thing with a digital element is a movable item that contains digital content or a digital service or to which such content or service is connected in such a way that, in its absence, it does not fulfil its purpose. The best example is a clever boy. Where it is transferred together under a contract of sale to the consumer, it shall be considered to be part of the contract of sale. The draft brings all consumer contracts relating to the delivery of the product to be manufactured under sales regulation. At the same time, certain provisions of the contract of employment continue to apply to cases with individual characteristics. The rules on the compatibility of a case with the contract will be clarified and harmonised and, like the contracts for digital content and services, the requirements on functionality, compatibility and interoperability will be set out. Similarly to contracts for the supply of digital content and services, the obligations of an undertaking to renew things with a digital element are regulated. The rules on the seller's liability remain largely the same, i.e. the general two-year rule still applies, but the draft clarifies the seller's responsibility for things with a digital element for which a continuous supply of digital content or a continuous supply of digital service is foreseen. An example is the fitness bracelet, which involves the digital service in constantly renewing training programmes. The undertaking shall also be responsible for such a shortage of digital element for a period of at least two years. If the delivery of the digital element is carried out in accordance with the contract over a period of two years, the seller shall be responsible for the deficiencies that occur during that period. Here too, the burden of proof has been reversed for the benefit of the consumer, and this time limit will be extended from six months to one year. In other words, if a deficiency occurs within one year of the delivery of the case to the consumer, it is assumed that it already existed at the time of the transfer. Here too, the rules on remedies available to the consumer are clarified and there is a clear hierarchy, but in essence the changes are not very significant. Further on from the changes related to the Directive on the modernisation of consumer rights. As with the changes resulting from the Digital Content Directive, the application of the rules on contracts concluded outside business premises and distance contracts is extended to situations where the consumer provides personal data to the undertaking in order to obtain digital content or digital service. Additional information obligations will be introduced for online trading venues that allow consumers to conclude contracts by means of distance communication. In the future, the online trading venue operator will have to inform the consumer, for example, whether the person with whom it enters into the contract is an entrepreneur or a consumer, because the application of EU consumer protection rules will depend on it. The consumer shall also be provided with information on the order parameters of the offers and, where appropriate, on the allocation of obligations between the trading venue holder and the economic operator. In addition, certain pre-contractual information rules will be clarified to align them with the regulation for digital content and services and the rules on the right of withdrawal to ensure consistency between them. In a nutshell. It is important to stress that we have little room for manoeuvre when transposing directives, so we cannot change the draft significantly. All three directives are maximum harmonisation and give Member States only a few options. On these options, before drafting the draft, the Ministry asked for the views of stakeholders and we have tried to draw as much as possible from the feedback we received. Thank you very much. I'm ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U332	Thank you, good minister. Urve Tiidus begins with questions. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U333	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I would like to take this opportunity to ask a little practical questions about the principle that, in future, the payment of money for content or service will be treated as equivalent to a situation in which the consumer will present his personal data to the undertaking. In this way, protection under contract is granted to the consumer. But we know very well that money goes once, but personal data can also be replicated. How, how is the consumer protected from it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U334	Thank you. That is a very important question. In this situation, people usually ask for either an email address or any other way to distribute advertising. And there are also places where they ask for the possibility of transmitting data for the provision of other services in order to make offers. This is the situation where you report your personal data, and you can probably also look at your profile if you report your age, gender and some preferences. This information must be kept by the service provider with great care. That is precisely the case: personal data must be stored in accordance with European Union rules, but must not be offered anywhere else. Yeah, let's just say, mediate the other ads to you and serve through it. He won't take money from you, but he's offering advertising from other companies using the data you've received. And just as the Data Protection Act or the General Regulation requires, when you take and say that I want my data back, you have the right to have it back. The product or service provider must delete your data and may no longer use it. Whether he will continue to offer you a service, it is his choice. He can keep offering you, but he can't. We know that often when we buy something online, there is a choice as to whether you get a package with advertising and as if a free or financial package. So this is the place of choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U335	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U336	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, It is certainly in this sense a very good law and a directive that, as you said, makes our consumers' lives more comfortable, easier, transparent all processes. But I found here, I read the coordination table and read the place where the Supreme Court has been asked as input. And the answers are... There are very different answers. I looked them all up, they're either laconic or longer, but here's an interesting answer: "It's taken to know. The Ministry is very pleased that the Supreme Court supports the fundamental choices of the draft. " I am simply asking whether the duties of the Ministry of Justice include taking pleasure and expressing it over the transposition of the European directive. And are there any additional documents where the ministry is pleased when emotion is somehow specially written?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U337	Thank you for your question. I think every courtesy is worth it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U338	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U339	Mr President, Minister, thank you very much. I heard you say that we have no room for manoeuvre, that these directives must be adopted, and that the whole jam. Well, you didn't say jam. I also think they are good, but I ask how sovereign the Republic of Estonia will be if you, as Minister of Justice, tell us that all these directives must be adopted without change and we have no chance of doing anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U340	Thank you for your question. There are, of course, areas where harmonisation at EU level between countries is very extensive. There are areas where it is smaller, and there are areas where it is essentially not. All that concerns the internal market, trade, sales, services, is one area where harmonisation within the European Union as a single common market is natural. It's supposed to be relatively even. And it also has great value for our consumers. For example, thanks to this, we can also buy our goods and services from other countries. Above all today, if we also buy a lot of things online, including services on the Internet, we know that all these conditions are the same everywhere and we do not have any misunderstandings about the fact that trading rules are the same in Estonia, but in Ireland or Sweden are quite different. That is the idea of harmonisation. Within certain limits, flexibility is possible for countries, as I mentioned, and negotiations were held in these parts. If we now ask whether the countries have absolutely no chance of influencing matters at European Union level, all the Member States, including Estonia, have also participated in the development of this directive. At the same time, Estonia has formed its views in cooperation with the various authorities and discussed them in the Riigikogu, in particular in the Committee on European Union Affairs and in the relevant committee. Whether all of these or how precisely, these Estonian views or boundaries have been taken into account, it depends a little bit on [the circumstances]. However, it is generally the case that if there is an important and profound opposition on the Estonian side, agreement on this will not be reached nationwide. Our views have therefore been taken into account during the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U341	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U342	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Indeed, it is a very long and thorough material. I tried to understand it a little bit, but it's pretty complicated, it's theoretical, it's technical, it's pretty unclear. My question is how the consumer understands these provisions. We are saying that this is necessary for the consumer and helps consumers, but does the consumer even understand what we are talking about here? What makes it easier for consumers to understand these provisions? Are there any measures, any ideas about how they are made [understand]?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U343	Yes, it is a fact that this bill is voluminous and may seem extremely technical. But let's just say that this kind of legal regulation must be precise in the interests of [preventing] possible disputes or explanations. Maybe it can't be that kind of storybook or simple storybook style. He must be very precise. Businesses, consumer protection organisations, certainly have an important role to play here to make these aspects clear to consumers in simpler language and to show what one or the other step means. In fact, in real practice, a number of provisions have already been implemented either by other laws in force, or they are very close to what is stated here. This is the same example that I gave here in answer to the preceding question that if you go and you can choose between computer programs and you are asked whether you will present your address and receive an ad in return for it without paying or if you will pay for it. It is, of course, expected that if you buy the goods, the goods will have to work properly for some time, and if they do not work, as a consumer, you will have the right to require any action from the seller of the product, either to correct compensation or to correct the error. It's also in the case of physical things. In the case of digital things, this has perhaps been somewhat unclear and has led to disputes in some places. But at least in Estonia's practice, it has been implemented, that, well, if your smart device has broken, you will go there, it will be repaired, or you will be replaced. All these things have actually worked, but now they are made clearer and more understandable so that there is no debate. Let's just say that your smart device may be a physical shell, but it's hard to do anything with him if he doesn't have the contents. Let's just say they're divorced legally, but we've dealt with them so far as part of this together. But it can be very freely so that this iron is one manufacturer of its own and the content is that of another producer. If you're uploading another program to your mobile phone or computer, who's responsible? It makes it a little clearer that different rules apply to digital things. So there will not be much change in the substance, but in terms of legal clarity, this law is essential. It will certainly clarify certain aspects that are important for consumers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U344	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U345	Good manager! Minister of Justice! Yeah, it's great that some of the areas that we have digital are like a big pond and misunderstandings from Lisbon to Tallinn do not arise. But shouldn't [so be] in other areas, as the same problems are in real life. For example, we do have the euro in common, and the tax systems could also be the same, so that we do not always have to examine whether there is one way or the other. The language is also that we have a little talk about the Estonian language in this preamble to the Constitution, so that it [be] eternal, but it could actually be one language. There would be no problem with these confusions from Lisbon to Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U346	Thank you for your question. I am seriously surprised that you have become such a radical advocate of the European Union that you want to establish a single language and a common tax system. However, I prefer the Union of States.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U347	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U348	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! We were talking about harmonising the sale of digital content. In the previous composition of the Committee on Economic Affairs, we dealt with this decision to ensure that all online goods in Europe are uniformly accessible and no distinction is made. Today I have received several and several signals that are simply refusing to serve Estonia. Have they come to you? I have advised people to turn to consumer protection at this time, the Ministry of Economic Affairs. We dealt with this in the Committee on Economic Affairs. Have these cases reached your ministry, too, and could I direct these people to the Ministry of Justice as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U349	Thank you. Not as far as I know, but as we know, not all letters coming to the Ministry come to the Minister's desk. But as far as I know, it hasn't. And, indeed, consumer protection issues are dealt with by the Consumer Protection Agency, so we should turn there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U350	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U351	Thank you. I was just about to ask you about what you ended up with. It's a great thing that justice really goes along with time. Very much of what we spend our money on is no longer a'real thing', but a virtual service or a commodity. If a person has concerns or complaints and cannot solve it with the service provider, how do you monitor Estonia? Will this happen through TTJA? Who is it that people can turn to when they have problems with its digital content?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U352	Thank you for your question. Of course, the first step is this, and there was also a discussion during the drafting process that, if the consumer has a problem with his product, he must first turn to the seller. The seller is the one who is the first to be responsible. Let's say the merchant has to ensure that the product is fit for use, he's responsible for it. If you buy online, of course, it's who you buy from, even if he's an intermediary, who's first in charge. And if it doesn't work out, of course, there is an opportunity to turn to consumer protection and also to the law enforcement authorities, in other words, to get these things straightened out.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U353	Good Minister, there are no more questions for you. Thank you! Now, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs, it is Tarmo Kruusimäe's turn. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U354	Thank you, good vice chairman. Dear colleagues, who are you in this Chamber and, of course, those of you who are always in your office at this moment are watching this interesting and exciting discussion! As a rapporteur for the Committee on Legal Affairs, I declare that on the national day of mourning this year, on 14 June, the Committee on Legal Affairs met in the following composition: Chairman Jaanus Karilaid, minutes Gretchen-Annette Mägi and members of the Committee Marek Jürgenson, Sulev Kannimäe, Uno Kaskpeit, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Heljo Pikhof, Urve Tiidus, Vilja Toomast, Commission officials: Raini Laide, Linnar Liivamägi and Carina Rikart. Only the Anti Division was missing. The guests were Maris Lauri, Minister of Justice, and Vaike Murumets, Head of the Department of Private Law in the Legal Policy Department of the Ministry, and Kristiina Koll and Kaidi Urgas, advisers of the same department. The Minister presented to us these general principles relating to the transposition of this directive. I must admit that my personal opinion is that everything seemed relatively clear to the Members of the Commission. There was no very lively debate. However, as a member of the Commission, I asked how much this draft will remain within the European framework and how many new terms and such have been added by Estonia itself. The Minister replied that the restrictions were quite precisely proposed by the European Union and there was not much room for self-action. Then we made procedural decisions. Firstly, to propose to put the draft on the plenary agenda today, on 15 September 2021, a consensus. Secondly, to appoint Tarmo Kruusimäe as rapporteur once again a consensus on the part of the Commission. Thirdly, to propose the termination of the first reading, there was a consensus on this too. And, incrediblely or not, the last suggestion is to propose a deadline for the amendments to be set at 4 p.m. on 29 September, and there was a consensus here too. I would therefore ask everyone to support the draft, to actively delve into the content. This is quite a big thing and it is better to work harder than to try to patch up mistakes afterwards. I'm done with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U355	The members of the Riigikogu are also clear. There are no questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U356	Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U357	I'm opening negotiations. The political groups do not want to speak. I'm closing the negotiations. Let's review the proposal from the lead committee. As you have heard, the proposal of the commission is to finish the first reading of Bill 404. We're done with the first reading. By the deadline for tabling amendments, I will set 29 September at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U358	We will move on to the eighth item on the agenda, which is draft Act 401 [first reading] on ratification of the agreement to facilitate and terminate investment between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. This will be introduced by Foreign Minister Eva-Maria Liimets. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U359	Honourable Riigikogu! The agreement under discussion today aims to end the bilateral agreement on investment facilitation and protection with the United Kingdom. The Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the facilitation and protection of investments was signed in London on 12 May 1994 and entered into force on 16 December 1994. On 31 March including 31 March, the UK Embassy in Tallinn sent a note to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Estonia with a proposal to terminate the agreement. Similarly to the termination of the agreements on the promotion and protection of investments in Finland and Sweden, the termination of this agreement is also the result of the judgment of the Court of Justice in "Achmea', in which the Court found that agreements on the promotion and protection of investments within the European Union are incompatible with European Union law. Following the Achmea Decision, Member States, including the United Kingdom, declared that all intra-EU investment protection agreements would be jointly terminated on the basis of a multilateral agreement or a bilateral agreement. The United Kingdom decided to terminate the investment agreements bilaterally with the Member States of the European Union. The bilateral termination agreements have also been ratified by Estonia with Sweden and Finland and the agreement with Austria awaits signature. The termination of a bilateral investment agreement with the United Kingdom will not lead to a reduction in investor protection. The trade and cooperation agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, which entered into force on 1 May 2021, ensures the continued protection and equal treatment of investors in Estonia and the United Kingdom. This trade and cooperation agreement guarantees equal treatment for all citizens of the Member States of the European Union in the United Kingdom. With bilateral agreements in place, this treatment could be distorted to the detriment of the citizens of some countries. Consequently, I would ask the Riigikogu to ratify this agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U360	Good Minister, thank you for this presentation. It seems that the members of the Riigikogu are clear and have no questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U361	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U362	Thank you! Now, the story is that we need a presentation from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which should be made by Henn Põlluaas, but it seems that we need to find Henn Põllaas first. The manager's break is five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U363	Well, it turns out that Henn Põlluaas has transformed into Marko Mihkelson, chairman of the committee, and Marko Mihkelson as chairman of the committee carries out this respectful task and presents us with the Commission's view of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U364	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, It's very simple with this bill. The Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed the preparation of the draft for the first reading at its meeting on 8 June. During the discussion, the Minister of Foreign Affairs Eva-Maria Liimets gave an overview of the content of the draft. The debate was not very long. The matter was clear to colleagues, and therefore the Committee on Foreign Affairs quickly took the following procedural decisions by consensus: to propose a draft 401 on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for the first reading on Wednesday 15 September, and to propose that the first reading be closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-15_U365	Colleagues don't have any questions. I'm opening negotiations. Do the groups want to speak? It doesn't look like it. We can close the negotiations. We will go to the proposal of the commission, which is to conclude the first reading of Bill 401. We're done with the first reading. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 29 September. Ladies and gentlemen, we have successfully exhausted today's agenda. I wish you a nice evening, and I'll see you tomorrow. The sitting is adjourned.
