ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U1	Good fellows! Honourable Riigikogu! Good members of the Government of the Republic! Happy Question Time Watchers! Let's start the 2nd June briefing. First, we'll run a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U2	17 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 84 are missing. Today's Question Hour is attended by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, Minister of Justice Maris Lauri and Minister of the Interior Kristian Jaani. We have been asked 11 questions at the moment, and I have a suggestion for you, good colleagues and members of the government: let us put it this way: for every question that has been registered, there is a question to be specified from the questioner and one supplementary question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U3	The first question is asked by the member of the Riigikogu Henn Põljaas. This is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, a member of the government. The topic is anti-Semitism in Estonia. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! The government intends to set up a task force to fight anti-Semitism to protect the Jewish community. Of course, all nations must be protected from persecution, but I cannot understand deeply what they are intended to protect them from in Estonia. There has never been persecution of Jews or other nations in Estonia. Before the war, Estonia was transferred to the so-called Jewish golden book, because unlike many countries they had no problems here. If so, you can also see this witness at the museum near the synagogue. The Jews were granted cultural autonomy, had all rights compared to other citizens, and were not discriminated against. The same is true in Estonia today. They are just as respected and equal citizens as everyone else. According to the Police and Border Guard Board, there is no anti-Semitism or anti-Semitic crimes in Estonia. Why, then, should the government distinguish them from other nations here, and from whom should they still be protected? Does the government really think that the Estonian people, who have suffered in the same way as the Jews in history, have any evil plans against them? By setting up such a working group, the government sends a signal to the world, as if there were a problem. I ask: why do you create a non-existent problem, ruin Estonia's good reputation, and what does all this cost our taxpayer?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U5	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U6	Thank you for that question. This concept of anti-Semitism measures is primarily aimed at preventing such problems. Indeed, I have also been in contact with the leader of the Estonian Jewish community, who says that there are certainly no problems in Estonia at national level, that the Jews are being bullied. The same cannot be said about relations between neighbours, perhaps between neighbours, or about what is happening in Delfi's commentary, where there are very many comments that do not really inspire certainty. So we are part of the larger picture and the agreements we have at European level in order to specifically highlight the fight against anti-Semitism and the security of Jewish communities. Since this has been a problem in the world, there has been a problem in Estonia too, so that such things do not happen, I think all such steps are necessary for prevention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U7	Now, the question to be specified. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U8	Thank you. There is no problem with anti-Semitism in Estonia; you have, in essence, admitted it yourself today. But if the government continues its globalist open-door policy and lets an even larger Muslim community emerge in Estonia, it will inevitably occur. That was understandable from your answer, too. The number of Muslim extremists in Estonia is already increasing at an unprecedented rate. Mass immigration has indeed led to the persecution of Jews in all European countries, where Muslims have been mass-accepted. Tens of thousands of Jews have fled from the European Union, and we are always hearing news that in some European countries, their synagogues have been lit again, otherwise harassed or even killed. According to the European Jewish Congress, as a result, a third of Europe's 700,000 Jews want to leave. In view of the fact that the coalition decided to reject the draft Aliens Act submitted by EKRE and to do so today, which would prevent mass immigration and the proliferation of migrant labour, it seems that the government plans and even favours the emergence of a similar situation and the import of anti-Semitism into Estonia. Then the Estonian Jews really need protection. However, such a situation must not simply be allowed to occur. In this case, there would be no need for an anti-Semitism task force, no need to create sweet jobs for our own in the task force and no need for a waste of money. I ask: why can't you and you don't want to learn from the mistakes of other countries, especially when these mistakes can't be reversed afterwards?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U9	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U10	Thank you. On the contrary, it is the mistakes of others that must be learned. But I would adjust certain things. Firstly, in the European Union, migratory pressures have fallen significantly in recent years, and if we look at how many asylum applications there have been fewer of them in recent years, and there have also been fewer positive decisions. If we look at Estonia, it is also not true that we have some kind of mass immigration. It's just not true. We have an immigration limit for granting residence permits to foreigners who come to Estonia for business or work purposes. This is a maximum of 0.1% of the Estonian permanent population, in 2021 it was 1315. There is not much immigration pressure in Estonia. Nor is it true that we have some uncontrolled influx of migrant workers. At European level, too, long-term solutions are being sought in order to deal with these concerns when this migratory pressure comes back to the south and to separate those concerns from those of the people who come in. When we talk about anti-Semitism, in fact, the concept also aims very much at defining what anti-Semitism is in this form at all, what it means. According to this concept, this is the perception of the Jews in a certain way, which may also manifest itself as hatred of the Jews. The verbal and physical expressions of anti-Semitism are directed against Jewish and non-Jewish people or their property and against the institutions and religious places of the Jewish community. After all, we know that there have been people in Estonia, even in your own group, who have performed with such [thinking] moves. This is certainly what Estonia has, as I said, also expressed in the commentary. What's it coming from? I don't know what to say, but any incitement to anger is definitely unacceptable. I am very pleased that you, too, are against this kind of hate speech or incitement, and you no longer advocate it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U11	And now one more question. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U12	Thank you. Of course, we are against hate speech, and if you so easily create all sorts of groups here to fight against something, and you suggest that one of the reasons is the comments of the hate speech in Delfi's commentary somewhere, please also set up a working group to protect the EKRE, so that in Delfi's commentary, and not only in Delfi's commentary, we often get very heavy assessments and threats. So to base Delfi's commentary on something, I guess it's a little easier to go in the way of resistance. And indeed, in my opinion, the people of Jewish nationality in Estonia can feel completely safe and there is no problem at all here, they are clearly an integral and valued part of our society. But my question is that if you fight anti-Semitism so proudly, will you support the idea that Estonia will take its embassy to Jerusalem to fully support the Jews in their statehood, their culture and the continuity of their faith.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U13	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U14	Thank you. I've been watching you all this time in this Riigikogu hall, and it always seems like you're at least gonna pretend to be such a tough guy. You have even said that you are hard hitters, but now it turns out that you are the victims and that you need the protection of the state in the form of a commission. I am very sorry to hear that, because the victims certainly cannot be strong. But if you think we should discuss it at national level, at government level, in order to set up a committee to protect the EKRE, I believe that you can start it right here in the Riigikogu, maybe you will form a support group. Now for the question. No, I don't think it's necessary to move this embassy.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U15	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U16	Let us move on to the next question. It has been submitted by Priit Sibul, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by Maris Lauri, the Minister of Justice of the Government of the Republic. This is about children's security. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U17	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good government representatives! Minister Maris Lauri! Yesterday was Child Protection Day, and the Social Affairs Committee discussed child poverty, and there were quite a number of presentations that understood that child poverty also leads to child poverty. In this sense, the question I am asking, and the solution is clearly much more complex. Already in the previous government, a debate was launched on changes relating to the payment of maintenance allowances, or rather, it was discussed in the government when the Ministry of Justice had prepared it. There is now a proposal in this draft that a reduction of EUR 100 should be made. During yesterday's talks, it also turned out that single - parent families were the most vulnerable groups at risk, and these children were the most vulnerable ones. I saw that on Monday there was an opinion or, in fact, a media comment, which also included your position. You said that there would be big discussions and there would be no final position. I am simply asking you, in the light of yesterday's day, to also give your political view and understanding of how and where we could get with this relatively complex issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U18	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U19	Thank you. This is certainly an extremely important subject to be discussed. First, the livelihood of children and, in this context, the coping of single parents and the coping of children living with one parent and the subject of livelihoods. The truth is that the change of livelihoods was initiated in the previous government, the intention of [working out] the first round of coordination went through, and there was a wide range of reactions. During the winter, these things were discussed further, discussions had been lively. It is true that these discussions were held during the change of government. The proposals that were made there and sent back to the coordination circle and have now come back with the response are indeed varied, because the parties have very different views on the matter. Perhaps the figurative example is that when this draft was sent to coordination, I received two responses in the hours I had read the same day, and they were contradictory. So it is certainly difficult to find a compromise. What's the problem? The problem is that we have a minimum living with regard to the minimum wage and the minimum wage has risen extremely quickly, so the payment of a living has become very burdensome for some people. This ends, for example, with children getting nothing, even when parents are willing to pay, because the parent is simply not able to pay, or when younger children of another family are in difficult circumstances who are unable to receive a living. We need to find a balance there now. One of the changes, which is currently very much discussed, is a transitional provision. It seems to me that this principle, which is in the draft, how to calculate the minimum in the future, is that it is a minimum of living that can always be increased through negotiations, is how to implement it. The positions here are contradictory. The Supreme Court and the judges indicate that we must monitor justice in one direction. The Chancellor of Justice points out that justice is also a matter of another direction. That's where the arguments are.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U20	A more specific question, Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U21	Thank you. I understand that with these solutions, we are not as far away from each other as the sun and the moon. But I really want to say that, as yesterday's [debate] and all this statistics show, the situation of single parent children is the most difficult, they are at the highest risk of poverty, and that you also agree that this compromise, which is currently being discussed, will not happen automatically. I understand that there is also a legal dispute at the moment about which fundamental right is more important: either the fact that the law has previously been provided for, or now that we have a new law with a new rate, everyone will automatically decline. I ask the government to think first of all about the well-being of children. I also understand those fathers whose pay is low and the situation is complicated. I think the most important thing is... We're talking about cases where parents can't agree. Of course, no one's interest would be pierced and the most sensible thing would be if people found an agreement between themselves, but if the state intervened, we'd try to be where the child is.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U22	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U23	Thank you. I very much agree with you to find this compromise. It is certainly not easy, and perhaps not everyone is satisfied with it to the end, because, unfortunately, when people break up, emotions are very big and emotions are very big, and reconciliation is often difficult. We need to take a broader look at this issue. In addition to this minimum livelihood, we also need to understand that the minimum livelihood is indeed the minimum. You can always make a living bigger, the courts have that right, but people can do it themselves. I hope very much that we will have a family agreement as one step before we go to trial to argue. I really like the fact that in many families, despite their personal conflicts and pains, adult people can still agree. They think about their children because it's also thinking about children. Children should be able to feel that both parents care for exposure, association, and material support. It certainly makes sense to make an effort, and I am not saying that it will be easy, but the various parties will be taken into it, including the legal parties. And if we also come to this Riigikogu with this draft, I hope that the Riigikogu will also place its contribution there and not take the proposed solution as an opposite position, but think along, because that is the common interest of all of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U24	And now for an additional question. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U25	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good minister! I also have a question about children's safety. We dealt here about a month ago with a bill of harsher paedophile punishment and a bill that would increase the age of sexual self-determination. We had such a bill, and so did the Social Democratic Party. On these drafts, the government, or the Ministry of Justice, came up with a relatively vague statement that there is still a matter to be discussed and that we need to be involved and that we need to analyse. As far as I know, this analysis has been carried out in Estonia for at least 10 to 15 years. However, we have also heard that, in the course of this involvement, some of the groups involved have been very supportive of the drafts that Parliament has been working on. I have a question: how far are you in the ministry with your analysis, involvement and discussion? And maybe you can talk for the coalition about when we're moving on to second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U26	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U27	Thank you. The draft, drawn up at the Ministry of Justice in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of the Interior, as well as a wide range of interest groups, has gone through a coordination round. The proposals received after the round of coordination are being processed, grouped and I think the draft will be ready quite quickly. Whether it reaches the Riigikogu in weeks, I dare not tell you one hundred percent because there are certain procedures here: it must also pass through the government before it reaches the Riigikogu. But if you don't make it before Midsummer Day, it's definitely the first thing when the Riigikogu meets for some other reason or also regularly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U28	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U29	Let's move on to question three. It has been presented by Eduard Odines, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. The issue is the fiscal policy choices of the government. Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! There is no news that the government, in the heat of its cuts, is now attacking children and culture. We've all heard of that in the last few weeks. But less attention has been paid to another aspect of cutbacks related to the collection of gambling tax and its allocation to different projects. If I have understood correctly, the country's budgetary strategy provides that support for gambling tax on various projects in different areas of administration will be frozen at a reduced volume this year and will be paid less in future than is received by the state budget. Small investment projects under the administration of the Ministry of Finance, minus EUR 3 million over four years, children's and young people's projects within the Ministry of Education, minus EUR 2 million over four years, welfare projects under the administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs, projects for families, the elderly and the disabled, minus EUR 3 million, preparation of the Olympics under the Ministry of Culture, sports activities for people with disabilities, cultural projects in the regions, minus EUR 3 million. Prime Minister! Can you explain to us once again why, under this banner of cuts, this banner of cutting red tape and optimising the costs of public administration, you are going after the weakest, the smallest? These are hundreds of small projects and thousands of people who have benefited from our collective tax on gambling. The law provides for a very certain percentage of how much we have to allocate to these projects, but you are now now going to decide that you are going to come to us soon with an amendment to the law to freeze these amounts and start reducing them. These amounts may be adorable in the context of the entire state budget, but for these people, for these projects and for the sustainability of these organisations, they are very large sums. Why are you doing this, Madam Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U31	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U32	Thank you. First of all, we must start with the fact that the previous national budget strategy was actually bluffed. This was also acknowledged by the previous Minister for Finance, who said that there were completely empty cuts, which had no content, and which resulted in these expenditures being made against these empty cuts, as if the costs had been cut and the benefits would be more. I understand that all these complaints are based on these plans and future expectations of the previous RES. I also understand that this was a very simple and convenient way for the draft budgetary strategy of the previous RES, the previous country. It was as if it made it possible to make all the costs that were not actually made possible by the revenue, but to push the 'cut-down decisions' into the future. We had a choice whether to continue lying, to say that we didn't have to spend anything, or not. In itself, in a crisis, we have very many opportunities to find places for state reform. We have directed ministries to cooperate with each other because we have different ministries who do the same thing that could be done in a person's view from one place. I would like to confirm this again, as regards the whole picture you are painting, that we are going to take something away from someone, in fact, in the end, when we look at the big picture, the public sector simply has to cut its costs, if the private sector has had to do it even by 30% in the crisis. Our goal now is only 4.2%. So actually, this isn't a very big goal. Of course, if we take every single cost, it is always said that no, it must not, it must not and must not. But let's think about where we can do and how. We need to make sure that we have more or less a match between income and expenses. Right now, the difference is 1.27 billion, which is above income. It's just not sustainable for a long time, it's coming out of all our pockets.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U33	Now, the question to be specified. Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! Of course, everything can be put on the back of the previous government and on the back of the budgetary strategy of the previous country to justify its behaviour, but I believe that it is not very prime ministerial to do so. You must be responsible for your actions and certainly for your words. I certainly cannot agree with you that, if there is a need for a state reform, if the cost of bureaucrats needs to be reduced, if the administrative costs of ministries need to be reduced, then the costs of children, young people, people with disabilities, Olympic athletes and all such organisations and people will be addressed. This objective and its realization, at least for me, do not come together and, frankly, sounds very ice queen when such an Estonian word can be used. I also asked the Minister of Finance last time, pointing out my great respect for the government, where there are so many female ministers, where your empathy is lost, that you are attacking the weakest. I didn't get an answer then, and I don't seem to get an answer today either. But I might ask you this: is it really not possible to achieve this objective of finding this money in the state budget in any other way to leave the smallest, the weakest, who are not very capable of resisting the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U35	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U36	Thank you. We're not going after the weakest, that's not true. When we talk about the money for children's recreational education that the state had allocated to local authorities in addition, we are talking about the local government having to finance this activity and the local government having to organise it, as it has done. And the money, without a sign, is actually increasing for local governments, even in the context of this crisis, although local authorities have not borne the centre of gravity of this crisis. The focus of this crisis has mainly been on the health system and the private sector. So in this sense, this [comment] is not true. We have repeatedly answered your questions here, also pointing out how this money is actually used in different parts of the country, in cities, in the municipalities, and it has not always been for the benefit of children. All the activities you refer to when these activities are considered to be important, then ministries will stand up for these activities and find this money, as will local authorities. If additional funding for recreational education is the main issue, then we will have local government elections, where all people will be able to express their minds and inform local authorities that it is important and that it is required for greater funding or for greater organisation by local government.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U37	Now, one more question. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Kaja Kallas! Yesterday, there was a debate in this Chamber on a key national issue of "Estonia's challenges to energy security and security of supply," where there was a person like Professor of the TalTech Institute of Energy Technology, Head of the Research Group on Sustainable Energy and Fuels from Alar Kon. It was also a question of making a 'green turn' in Ida-Virumaa, where EUR 340 million will be given for the dismantling of mines there and the taking away of miners' work. I asked how this was, and Professor Alar Konis said that it would be real if the whole world were to go along with it, but today's problem is that the European Union's CO2 emissions are about 9% of the world's CO2 emissions. Partly because our production has moved out of the countries of the European Union. But if we set such great ambitions today, it will be very costly and will also create a competitive advantage for those countries where these ambitions will not go along. Maybe we'll just shoot ourselves in the leg. The fact that this is a very serious matter was referred to by Konist in the German example, where the same thing was happening as we were planning. The mining area, where energy production was included, was closed, and the social assistance that Germany paid there was in billions precisely to prevent this social disaster and to see how it happened. This means that we must also have some sort of package of measures, but not for a year, but for ten years, for example. Please describe the financial package of your government to prevent this social disaster.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U39	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U40	Thank you. The turn of the green is definitely one direction that everyone in the world is actually moving to. If you work in the private sector, you have to take into account the trends in the world. If you do the opposite of where the whole world is going, it may soon just be that there is no market for your product or service. That's why it makes sense to think ahead of time about how we're going along with these trends. This has been considered very important by our government. That is why I, by the way, in the European Parliament, also fought for oil shale regions to be there, and at the beginning there were only coal mining areas to become part of Estonia. And indeed, 340 million will be allocated to Ida-Viru County. The previous government wanted to allocate this money to other regions, but we changed that decision so that all this money would go to Ida-Virumaa. And I really believe that by taking these necessary steps to attract investors who create additional jobs, we will achieve that Ida-Viru County will become the most modern, most innovative region in Estonia. What unites these regions when we talk about coal mines or our oil shale region is that there are very good, hardworking people who have very specific skills. Perhaps in order to create new industries where the same kind of work is needed, we must make an effort. The Fair Transition Fund is not to replace the industry that is now, but to attract new investments to create these jobs. I had a very good meeting with the trade union of energetics and miners in Ida-Viru County and it turned out, in fact, that we are not far apart from each other at all. They too realize that a hero is necessary. They too realize that the world is moving in that direction. They simply want jobs to be guaranteed. But this is what the Estonian state and government want. That is why a transitional period is foreseen. This is why efforts must be made to ensure that these investments are in place at that point, or, rather, at an earlier point, when this transition is finally taking place.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U41	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U42	Let us move on to the fourth question asked by Mart Helme, a member of the Riigikogu. This is answered by the Minister of the Interior, Kristian Jaan, a member of the Government, and the theme is to unite the fleets. Mart Helme, please! I'm sorry! I'm asking you to give a microphone to Kalle Grünthal. A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U43	Thank you, dear George Ratas. I don't know if there's any problem with my microphone that Kaja Kallas can't hear what I'm asking. I asked if we had a package of measures to prevent a social disaster, but he's telling me something else. Is there any way to check if my microphone's working?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U44	Thank you. If a member of the Riigikogu has a problem with his tools, including a microphone, we will definitely do this verification with the help of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. Thank you. But let's move on, I'll give the floor to Mart Helme again. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U45	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. As far as I'm concerned, the idea of combining the Defence Forces and the Ministry of the Interior has come out with a completely insane idea. We know that both of them perform completely different functions. We know that the Police and Border Guard fleet operates rescue operations, pollution response operations, guards the border, monitors, communicates, has its own radar stations, etc. What, in your opinion, is the state of implementation of this idea now, and is it really your political will and willingness to proceed with the implementation of this idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U46	Kristian Jaani, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U47	Thank you for your question. I will start by introducing the fact that the discussions on cooperation or consolidation between different ministries are, in themselves, very welcome. And if you look at the broader picture of possible cooperation points between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defense, there are more. We are also quite active in discussing these issues, which are those areas where the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence could cooperate more, or even so that the Ministry of Defence is in some areas of a dragging role. For example, when we are talking about procurement, where there are certain similarities in the administration of both the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence, such as arms, ammunition, defence equipment, it is perhaps reasonable that the Ministry of Defence is responsible for such purchases in Estonia. Or when we talk, I don't know, the use of each other's infrastructure when we talk about building [let]lines, etc., or, for example, the provision of IT services by SMIT to the Ministry of Defence. When we talk about fleets, there are three large fleets in Estonia, in a small country: in the Navy, under the administration of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior is under the authority of the PBA and is under the administration of MKM at the Transport Board. In fact, with a certain reservation, the maritime capacity of the Estonian Lootsi still exists and the Ministry of the Environment also has certain small sites. Three fleets are too many for small Estonia, according to my opinion. We are debating today whether the naval activities of the Defence Forces and the maritime activities of the Police and Border Guard Board could not be combined as one option. I stress that no decisions have been made here. I'm taking different alternatives to the office. One of them is indeed that the PBA fleet and the Defence Forces or Navy fleet are one whole in one place. But you also pushed for the right things. This connection can go on if we are talking not only about moving metal or concrete from one place to another, but also about moving tasks from one place to another. Here, the greatest challenge is certainly this, I think, to be solved by the transfer of classic civil tasks to the Defence Forces. In Europe, such solutions exist in themselves as coastguards, a separate entity under the administration of the Ministry of Defence, but they are not battleships. So if we find a good solution to the legal way in which this thing can be carried out, including in the constitutional view, that the defence forces also carry out certain civil tasks that are carried out today by the PBGB, then I think it can be carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U48	Now, the question to be specified. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U49	Well, it's a little weird that it's a legal issue. It's still a defence issue, it's a matter of national security, it's a matter of human security. While I was in your shoes, we did calculations and found that the minimum necessary for Estonia to perform all functions was the availability of six border guards, starting with pollution control and ending with border surveillance, surveillance and everything else. Six! As we know, there are four. [We should] have six border guards, the fleet should be supplemented by a ship with helicopter capacity and more ships with pollution response capabilities, so that we can really fulfil the international obligations that Estonia has assumed. At the moment, we cannot fully fill them. Now it's the idea that we essentially eliminate what we have. We know that defence ships mostly stand by the quay, while PBS ships are always on the water. In my opinion, your approach that this is a legal [question] and we are looking for an optimal solution cannot be acceptable, because it does not guarantee the fulfilment of our international obligations and the security of the country. Do you agree with me or do you disagree?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U50	Kristian Jaani, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U51	Thank you. In this sense, I do not agree with this approach that we are not talking today about the current situation, we are talking about a longer view of the future. Indeed, today there are four ships in response to marine pollution. I am talking about the fact that, in the future, if we procure ship platforms together and, for example, they are part of the Defence Forces, then the ships of the Defence Forces, which I am talking about in the perspective of the future, are capable of responding to marine pollution as well. So once again, all this debate, I stress, there are no decisions here on the basis that today's tasks and activities must not get any worse, but rather they must get better. This is the only foundation that can be used to carry out an analysis. That is why there is indeed a legal analysis here, which is still missing, that it is possible to do so in this form in Estonia. I think it can be done, but it certainly needs to be analyzed for a moment. So once again, the situation should improve in practice, certainly not get worse, including the state's defence capabilities must improve through it. Indeed, today, this capacity does not exist in this form. I also agree that there must be no falling or changing in any way that the number of days at sea in the PBGB fleet is currently more than 800 days a year. It must definitely remain the same. I fully agree that no ship from a country should stand by the quay, but that ships must be on the sea and work.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U52	Now for an additional question. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U53	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good minister! I also suggest that the Prime Minister pay attention for a moment. In my opinion, with all this talk, today's government is making it known with a loud voice that you cannot handle government. You cannot simply ensure internal and external security in the country. The talk of a small Estonian state having three different fleets, which is somehow too much or too much, shows that you do not understand at all what the state is dealing with. It takes three different fleets. All three fleets need to be maintained all the time because they have a different function. Three completely different functions that they perform. The Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of the Interior could also bring together a sense of peace with the same logic, as there are dubious characters. There's also some kind of duplication of positions. And all the ministries, we could only have one great ministry. Ministers could, of course, be full, because then it will still be possible to perform here. But it's a complete inability to understand that we have a country and you rule that country. And you specifically, Mr. Minister of the Interior, are dealing with internal security. One part of internal security is border surveillance and, from the point of view of border surveillance, these ships and facilities cannot be handed over either to the Ministry of Economic Affairs for pilotage or to the Ministry of Defence to guard Estonia's security against all these Russian warships. The fact that the Ministry of Defence has not been able to do the slightest thing for our coastal defence in 30 years, and they still want to sell out ports and these last ships do not know where to send off to, well, I understand that the Fifth Column of the Kremlin has essentially achieved its goal. Now will you step into the same line and destroy internal security? Who do you work for, people?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U54	Kristian Jaani, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U55	Thank you for your question. The aim is, above all, to improve internal security. Once again: this unification and this debate cannot take place without this postulate, as I said before, that we must also talk about what this victory is and how classical civil tasks are going over. We're talking about the Navy and Police and Border Guard today. We are not talking about the role of the Transport Board here at the moment, although it is probably possible to find different solutions in the long term. Once again, how ship procurement is carried out, what are the ship's "base platforms" for which these vessels can be used, for example, in a crisis situation. But I fully agree that under no circumstances can there be a situation where the task is left to one institution, but the resources are moving away. This situation certainly cannot arise.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U56	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U57	Let us move on to question five. It has been submitted by Aivar Kokk, member of the Riigikogu, and Prime Minister Kaja Kallas answers this and the topic is the Estonian economy. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U58	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! According to Statistics Estonia, Estonia's gross domestic product grew 5.4% in the first quarter of this year compared to the same period last year. According to Robert Müürsese, a leading specialist in Statistics Estonia, almost half of the economic growth was due to the impact of taxes, in particular the good receipts of VAT and excise duties. Hence my question: how do you, Prime Minister, view the fall in excise duties with last year's additional budget may have the effect of making this year's economy rise positively, and could that not mean that excise duties could also be kept low from May next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U59	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U60	Thank you. Yes, it is true that according to Statistics Estonia, Estonia's gross domestic product increased by 5.4% compared to last year. If you ask about excise duties, the temporary reduction in the excise duty rate you talked about increased last year's consumption and, after lowering that rate, the declared quantities increased by 11.3%, i.e. 56 million litres, compared to the previous year. This increase was mainly due to the increased refueling of the transport sector, the private consumers traveled rather less and their contribution to the increase was marginal. However, the fall had a negative impact on the budget, as the combined consumption of diesel increased less than the impact of the fall in the rate of excise duty. In order for this budget line to have been so-called budget neutral, the quantities should have increased by at least 30%, or 154 million litres, over eight months. Let me remind you that they increased by 11.3%, or 56 million litres, or essentially 100 million litres less than the one that would have achieved a positive budget reduction. You yourself have said that this excise was temporary, and I have repeatedly quoted you here in the Riigikogu speech chair. In your supplementary budget call of 6 April 2020, you said that we have very clearly agreed that they will go down for two years, 'they' being excise duties. At the same time, we have a clause that, if the economy is already rising by at least 2%, we will come back to excise duties and then they will be quietly raised to some extent. Let me remind you that the economy has grown by 5.4%, which is to say, according to your logic, it should have been or should have increased them already and increased them significantly to respond to this economic growth. But we do not do this, but we are based on the fact that when the so-called sunset clause comes around and the temporary fall in excise duties ends, these excise duties will rise to pre-crisis levels.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U61	Now, the question to be specified. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U62	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! It is always possible to take a quote out of the speech and spin it from morning to evening, but it was also written to look at what the neighbours have done, and excise duties must also be taken into account by the Baltic States. Unfortunately, all you're talking about is selling fuel. However, it could be said that statistics show that during the period 2015 to 2019 the cargo turnover of Estonian companies decreased by 23%. However, after the drop in excise duty, this trend has slowed down and the cargo turnover in the third quarter of the previous year was 44% higher than in the first quarter of 2020. If the result of the excise duty reduction is calculated, the overall picture should be taken into account. And the 44% increase in inland freight is what really makes this excise deficit neutral. What do you think of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U63	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U64	Thank you. I don't know how to comment on cargo turnover right now. The turnover may be higher, but if we look at the impact of the fall in excise duty, it did indeed lead to increased quantities compared to last year, but this increase was 11.3%. As I said, in order to actually achieve this budget neutrality on the excise chain, it should have been 30%. So I agree with you on this point that the economy has a big picture and different elements. Excise collection is part of it. The second is how much the economy is recovering and what are the sectors that are winning from this section. The crisis has been difficult for everyone, but not equally difficult for everyone. Some sectors have taken up the impact of this crisis largely compared to some other sectors where there was no decline, but rather a rise.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U65	And now for an additional question. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U66	Thank you. Yeah, it's so nice to manipulate numbers. However, I would like to recall two things. Firstly, when we are talking about the receipt of diesel excise, at the beginning of 2020 it was minus 20 million of the extraordinary acquisition of stocks at the end of 2019 due to the introduction of a bio-component obligation. Minus 20 million now. Second. Perhaps you have noticed that there was a corona apandemia in 2020 which led us to a total economic closure for the whole spring, and also to international trade, until the end of the year. Nevertheless, at the end of the year, trade within Estonia started to grow. And when we look at today's economic figures, they show even greater growth than anyone has predicted. In this regard, I would like to mention specifically the manipulation that you have previously mentioned here in relation to the budget deficit. I was right last spring when we made the budget and economic forecasts, I was right last autumn when we made the budget, and I am right now. Those pessimistic predictions that were put on our table, I don't blame the forecasters. These projections were made as they were made, with the budget receipts showing hundreds of millions of decelerators. I told you right away they weren't coming. Now we see that economic growth, above all, shows that it is a very fiscal recovery of economic growth. Tax receipts this year exceed all forecasts. I was right, there was no need to pay attention to these disadvantages, because the disadvantages did not materialise. In that second column, you could just put the same number next to a sense of peace, and both of them cancel each other out, because the budget minus that you're so desperate about all the time doesn't really exist. Yeah, there may be imbalances in the budget, but not in the billions you're talking about. And if you now raise excise duty vigorously, it will be minus, just as the last increase in excise duty brought about. Do you understand that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U67	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U68	Thank you. First of all, we don't raise excises, you raise excises. You made a decision where you said that excise duties were set off with a sunset clause and that they would go back to that country. You didn't cut the excise duty without a deadline. So it was your decision. Our decision has been a tax truce that we will not poke these excises in this form. [[A voice from the hall. The manager's ringing the bell.]] As I said before, you wanted to increase excise duty already if the economy is growing by more than 2%, but the economy has grown by more than 5.4%. I also want to say about this budget gap that you yourself have admitted that this budget cut was trivial. I don't know what your math school was, but these numbers just don't come together. If, for one year or four years, this deficit, this budget hole, this empty cut by a billion, that tax increase that is now coming, that hole will never be filled. In addition, the costs of the crisis have also come here. For example, we are talking about nurses and doctors waiting for a raise of 80 million already, etc. The costs that we have incurred with the crisis have increased a great deal. So in any case, it doesn't all cover the hole you've tore in there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U69	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U70	Let us move on to the next question asked by a member of the Riigikogu, Heljo Pikhof. The Minister of Justice, Maris Lauri, responds to this and the subject is the implementation of the Cohabitation Act. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U71	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of Justice! In the coalition agreement between the Reform Party and the Centre Party, we read: "We do not change the concept of marriage as laid down in the Family Law. We aim to protect the rights of people living in different life models. " The coalition agreement also states that we will ensure cross-sectoral protection of equal treatment and discrimination. We have a partnership law, but there are no implementing acts. People affected by this, who have already made a partnership, are eagerly waiting for the Minister of Justice to take a step so that the implementing acts of the Cohabitation Act can reach the Riigikogu from the Ministry of Justice. Let's just say that we have a situation today where we have people who have been given certain rights and obligations by law, but they have to spend the courts' doors to defend their rights. And the courts must use analogy and precedents and create them. It is as if a whole piece of legislation is missing here, which it is high time to resolve. My question is: in what form do you intend to solve this legal vacuum as the government and as your Minister of Justice?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U72	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U73	Thank you for your question. It is a fact that when the law on partnership was passed, implementing acts were not adopted and this has created problems that should not have happened if the process had been carried out correctly. But just as the Supreme Court has decided, the cohabitation law still works. Yes, the lack of implementing legislation makes certain things difficult for people living together, whether they are of the same sex or of different sexes. Notaries can enter into partnership agreements between people of the same sex and between people of different sexes. How can implementing legislation be achieved and adopted? In fact, it is important that they be accepted. The Reform Party has repeatedly submitted implementing acts in the Riigikogu, but unfortunately they have not received support in the Riigikogu. It seems that this understanding of whether or not these implementing acts should be adopted does not run as far as the people were supposed to, which is why there is also an agreement in the coalition that this issue will be resolved in the Riigikogu. In this case, of course, the majority of the Riigikogu must be sent behind the implementing legislation or its draft. If this bill comes, I will not personally oppose this bill, and I consider it essential to adopt it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U74	Now, the question to be specified. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U75	Thank you. Honourable Minister of Justice! We all know that the Riigikogu takes decisions and approves them, but we look forward to this draft from the government. However, the question is that the government has not taken any steps to fulfil their promise to voters to ensure cross-sectoral equal treatment and protection from discrimination. Also, those affected by the lack of implementing legislation of the Cohabitation Act do not understand the government's slogan that we aim to protect the rights of people living in different life models. My question is that if you do not intend to come to the Riigikogu with implementing acts of the Cohabitation Act, how you have pursued this objective. Does it really not concern you that the protection of minorities in our country today is not guaranteed and that a number of people cannot realise their rights? And I repeat once again that really, the Riigikogu decides whether to adopt one law or another. I'm asking for an answer!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U76	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U77	Thank you. It is essential that people are treated equally. That's what we have in the Constitution. That is exactly what all members of the government are coming from, and I expect all members and officials of the Riigikogu, as well as all people in important positions, who decide what matters. If there are situations where people are not treated equally, where there is injustice, then this is where the Commissioner for Equality can intervene. This is a place where judicial authorities can also intervene. Finally, the court will decide the case. It is not quite right, in my opinion, to reduce the level playing field to whether or not there are implementing acts. However, they are certainly very important. But there is an agreement that this bill will be initiated by the Riigikogu. And I think that this is the right approach to this bill, because, as I said, it is not party-wise that perceptions run here, but people's perceptions run here. There is nothing to prevent you from launching this draft here in the Riigikogu. As you rightly said, the Riigikogu decides. That's the concept. Once again, if such a bill comes, there will be no obstacle on my part, and I believe there will be no government. However, it is very difficult to submit a bill for which there is no certainty that it will receive any support in the Riigikogu. If you can ensure that there is support for this bill in the Riigikogu, I think it is very good and very nice. But we have seen that this topic creates a great deal of emotion in society. So the majority's support before would undoubtedly be much better than the fact that the draft is simply presented in a situation where there is no majority support for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U78	And now for an additional question. Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U79	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Well, not only has the party you mentioned stood here in the Riigikogu for implementing legislation and the cohabitation law, but also the Social Democrats have repeatedly done so and demonstrated their will and desire to make life easier, more equal and normal for a very large part of Estonian society than it is now. If you mention that there is no support in society at large, it is in fact the implementing legislation of the Cohabitation Act that this support is very high in Estonian society and it is growing every year. This means that Estonian society is actually ready. It has been enough time since the debate on the Cohabitation Act so that we can take one more step so that people who would like to register their relations, regardless of their gender, before the state, can do so. But not in a way to spend months and days looking for a notary who would be willing to do so by looking for other ways, by addressing the courts, the Commissioners, or wherever you suggested that people turn to make these things happen. This is all happening in your jurisdiction, burdening the courts, etc. It is within your power, you, who say yourself, that both your party and you support this matter, and you support it. Let us be honest, we all understand that any party in the Riigikogu initiates this matter, even the Social Democrats, it stays in this Riigikogu. In the Riigikogu, we do not find most of it, or we get stuck here for hours, days and months. The only way to solve the problem is if the government comes to the Riigikogu with this bill. And it is true that the chairmen of both parties have expressed their support for this. Why don't you, Madam Secretary, take this step? Why don't you come and start a bill in the government as Minister of Justice?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U80	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U81	Thank you. I would point out that we can still have a life together, so implementing legislation would probably not change that. As regards supporting the implementing legislation of the Cohabitation Act, yes, there have been two political parties in the Riigikogu who have supported it more or less uniformly and harmoniously. These are the Reform Party and the Social Democratic Party. Unfortunately, in the current composition of the Riigikogu, these two parties do not form a majority. We need more people here. But the fact is that the rest of the parties do not come together, as you yourself said. And in a situation where there is no majority in the Riigikogu which adopts the laws, unfortunately at this point the views of public opinion do not count, as long as those who oppose these implementing acts in the Riigikogu do not change their opinion. So my request is to gather these people and talk to those who support it. If we get the majority, they'll be accepted. Indeed, the government cannot create a situation if one party is not behind it 100%.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U82	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U83	We will move on to the seventh question put by Mr Helme, a member of the Riigikogu, is answered by Minister of Justice Maris Lauri, and the subject is the election of a judicial Attaché. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U84	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good minister! The previous government was, of course, involved sending this justice attaché to America, and this was part of the very substantive fight against money laundering incidents in Estonia and cooperation with the United States in the fight against money laundering. Before we could name the attaché, the change of government, but it is important to know that I brought myself up to date with the process of naming this justice attaché. At the beginning of the year, Attorney General Parmas assured me that there weren't many candidates, that he had two candidates, and that the process was delayed at all. Now, at the beginning of April, Indrek Tibar was elected. The election of Indrek Tibar himself is scandalous because he has worked for a long time in a bank that is under the investigation of money laundering and worked in this bank in an area that dealt with the fight against money laundering, so that there is a clear conflict of interest in his cooperation with the Americans on the money laundering issue. But even more scandalous is how he was chosen. In fact, we have been in correspondence with you here, and you have confirmed that Indrek Tibar and Prosecutor General Parma are long-standing personal acquaintances, and that their personal acquaintance was also known during the election process. You have confirmed that the electoral commission of which Parma was a member did not see any conflict of interest with Tibar, and apparently Parma did not see any conflict of interest with itself when it decided to send a friend to America. According to the state budget, the salary of this post is about EUR 250000 per year and there is a very clear question that Parma has violated the limitation clause. Are you going to do something about all this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U85	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U86	Thank you. The fact is, yes, this competition was announced on 28 January. A total of 14 people applied, so there were not two people, but 14 of whom were invited to an interview, which took place on 1 March at the Public Prosecutor's Office, and three officials participated in the interview: Attorney General Andres Parmas, Chief Public Prosecutor Taavi Pern and Public Prosecutor Maria Entsik, as well as an advisor to the Human Resources Service. Collectively, it was decided that Indrek Tibar would win the competition. This decision was taken on 5 March and he was appointed to the post and he took up his appointment on 15 April. Now the question of whether one candidate met the Attorney General, one of the members who decides on the election of a person in the Commission raises a conflict of interest. Such a question can undoubtedly be asked. But first of all, it is a Commission where things are not decided by Andres Parmas alone, but by two other people. In addition, Estonian society is small enough, so people know each other and often know each other quite well. This happens especially in situations where people have studied in one field in one place. The conclusion that there has been some very serious conflict of interest or that there is something very seriously out of place is not possible. Maybe it's hard for you to understand, but there are a lot of professional people who can distinguish their personal relationships, personal contacts, from their professional activities, from their professional relationships. There are situations, and I know those situations where marriage mates in the private sector work in competing companies and no one gets the question that there is some kind of conflict of interest, because people are so professional that they know the difference and know what to talk about and what not to talk about.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U87	Specific question, Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U88	Thank you. Well, I'm questioning that. It doesn't smell like professionalism from the end. I understand that when there were 14 candidates and a personal long-term friend of the Attorney General's office, who has a long-term career in an institution under investigation for money laundering, the rest were even more serious money launderers or even bigger friends of the Attorney General's office, that he was finally elected. Is that the level that was chosen there? To be honest with you, I do not understand that Estonia is small and that Parma does not decide on its own. The law doesn't make any difference. Paragraph 11 (1) of the Anti-Corruption Act states that it is prohibited to perform an act in a situation where the act is carried out in relation to a person associated with an official. There's no point in talking about private companies here, we're talking about an official and public hiring. In addition, pursuant to § 7 (1) (4) the person concerned shall be considered to be, inter alia, a person whose status or activity outside the official's office has a significant and immediate impact on, or whose status or activity outside the official's office has a significant and immediate effect on, or who is subordinate to, the official's position. Well, there was no submission. But nobody here says that Estonia is small and suddenly people are professional. This is a clear violation of the operating restriction. This election process itself has been [questioning], not to mention its outcome: a person was elected who was so successful in combating money laundering in Swedbank that this bank is now under investigation for international anti-money laundering errors. The process itself has also been corrupt. It's a corrupt operation. Who's going to investigate the activities of Parmas now? And will the results of the competition be cancelled?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U89	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U90	Thank you. I understand from your [breathing] attitude that things are no longer under your control. But you're very seriously wrong, sharing in public accusations against a person who doesn't have the blame. Indrek Tibar, while working at Swedbank, did not deal with those aspects of money laundering where he could have had a direct influence on money laundering. He didn't work at the institution at the moments when the episodes that the study focused on occurred. So he couldn't have been there in any way. Not only did he not deal with these matters specifically, but his duties were different. Just because a person works in the same institution and maybe in the same department doesn't mean he has contact with that job. So I suggest you get a little involved in this job, not throwing accusations in public. Secondly, the question of the extent of people's acquaintances or the extent of such acquaintances may have a positive or negative impact on a decision. The question could arise if this acquaintance had not been known, but, as far as I know, at the time of the launch of the competition, it was known to the parties. I don't know how good friends or acquaintances they've been, but the contestants found their acquaintance to be something that doesn't interfere with the decision-making process. If you think this is a corruption case, please contact the relevant authorities. In my opinion, that is not the case. I have not received any information that this was a serious violation in terms of corruption.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U91	And now for an additional question. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of Justice! I would first like to adjust: if we are still talking about the area of justice, there can be no question of control. This is about equal treatment within the law and within the framework of the law. In front of the law, and I hope you know that, too, all persons are equal. However, according to the circumstances of the case, the fact is that the Attorney General was not and could not have been in his decisions concerning his good and familiar friend, neutral and objective. However, he did not withdraw from the decision-making process. I would point out that, in this case, the State Attorney General has acted in a corrupt manner, a person who should particularly closely monitor the objectivity, independence and impartiality of his or her activities. So who's finally gonna deal with this corruption case? The primary argument that the Estonian state is small is, for some reason, selective, is valid for certain people and is not taken into account for certain people. Secondly, you've just learned that there's been a corruption. So it is known to the Minister of Justice that there has been corruption, and you have the power to initiate proceedings. It is not necessary for us here in the Riigikogu to make a statement that the procedure will be initiated. So I will ask you again: since the procedure for this particular episode is being initiated and why has it not been done so far? Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U93	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U94	I will try to answer very briefly. Since, to my knowledge, this is not a corrupt case, no investigation has been initiated or will be launched. If there are facts that prove, in fact and in essence, that this is a corrupt case, then this [investigation] will come. But for now, I have not received such facts.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U95	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U96	Let's move on to question eight. It has been submitted by Riigikogu member Helmen Kütt and is answered by Minister of Justice Maris Lauri. The subject is planned changes in the provision of maintenance. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U97	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister of Justice! Priit Sibul, a good co-worker, has already started here on the subject of planned changes in the setting of a living. I will continue on this subject. Yesterday, Madis Hindre published an article from the pen, and now I quote it, because this quote will also be my question: "The minimum child maintenance allowance is now EUR 292 per month. The Ministry of Justice finds that this is beyond the control of many parents. Therefore, in autumn last year, the Ministry came up with a draft that would take the minimum maintenance allowance to other bases and reduce it by about EUR 100. The question immediately arose as to whether the maintenance that had already been examined in court would automatically be reduced. Andra Olm, adviser to the private justice service of the Ministry of Justice, said that this is not the way to automatically change judgments. "It would be contrary to the Constitution if we started to change the decisions of the courts by law," said Holm. [---] In the spring of this year, when a new version of the draft was completed, the Ministry had made a U-turn. "If a livelihood between EUR 193 and EUR 292 per month has been established by court settlement before the draft came into force, the new amount of maintenance shall be deemed to be EUR 193 per month per child as from the entry into force of the draft," explained Andra Olm in April. "That's so these tens of thousands of families don't have to go through their court decisions again." " And my question is as follows. You cannot, of course, say why Andra Olm has changed the position, but you can answer this question whether this position has been changed by the new Minister for Justice, which is a political guideline.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U98	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U99	No, that is not a political guideline. As far as I have looked at and examined this issue, the question is that there was a very different feedback on the first round of the draft, which was last year. Among other things, feedback also came from the Supreme Court indicating that such an approach is not unconstitutional, namely this transition from judgments through the implementing provision, as it concerns the future. Yes, it was a legal debate in which the Chancellor of Justice is on the other side, who points to exactly the same thing as the official also pointed out that there is an obstacle to the existence of a judgment. So, between these two positions, a compromise must now be found on how to make this transitional provision. I expect and hope that the parties involved will sit down together and, since he is primarily a legal matter, will discuss it thoroughly and find a suitable solution, which will be recognised by all the top specialists of our law as acceptable under the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U100	Specific question, Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U101	Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer. Indeed, the draft maintenance was already drafted at the time of Urmas Reinsalu, when he was the Minister of Justice in 2015 to 2019. The next Minister of Justice was Raivo Aeg, and today you are in the role of who, with this bill, must come to the Riigikogu Hall or not. My second question actually concerns the financial allocations planned in the country's budget strategy, because the representatives of the courts have said that by amending the law, new positions of judges must be created. They've also approached the Justice Department. The letter with which they addressed states that until now, maintenance disputes have been time- and resource-consuming for courts, even though they should be very quick and effective in dealing with children's interests. Has it been taken into account that if we have to go over these judgments and argue over them and find the right amount of maintenance, then we will also have sufficient resources to build up judges' positions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U102	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U103	Thank you. Currently, this resource has not been taken into account. However, I can assure you that both this potential large increase in maintenance disputes and, for example, other issues that may increase the burden on the courts are of particular concern. Together with the parties involved, I am actively looking for solutions and ways that judicial proceedings will still be of normal length and will not linger. The solutions can be very diverse here. I would also like to point out that when there is a review, it is a one-off increase. So in order to solve this problem, we need a temporary workforce. I wouldn't be bringing these thoughts out right now, but I assure you we're looking for a solution. In the long term, I very much hope that the conciliation procedure will not bring these disputes to justice, but that the parents will find a solution. I think that parents should think, despite all their bitterness, mutual resentment, and God knows what else, that the most important thing really is what is good for their children and that children get as little pain as possible. Children usually get hurt when they break up. So I hope that whatever legal solution we find to the transition process, it will not only be constitutional but also considerate of children, but will not prove to be very burdensome for the justice system.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U104	And now one more question, Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U105	Thank you for the floor. Minister of Justice! Could you explain the following to me about this problem? You will see the role of the Ministry of Justice and the government in resolving these issues, and I understand that the Ministry of Justice is seeking solutions and is prepared to come with them in the form of a bill through the government to Parliament. When we addressed the topic 'Cooperation law and its implementing legislation', you thought it was not a matter for the Minister of Justice. However, I think you have enough political experience, and it has only just been demonstrated, a few months ago, what happens in Parliament on such strong polarising issues, if this is Parliament's own initiative. When this bill is presented in the Riigikogu, it is very easy to reach an obstruction that either makes this bill stand or completely [unresponsible] steps are taken to actually pass the law or bend it according to the will of the majority. Why do you think that the regulation of the implementing legislation of the Cohabitation Act is less of a government concern than this issue? And what are so different in nature that one should be implemented or resolved through the initiative of the Riigikogu and the other through the initiative of the government? Perhaps you could explain that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U106	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U107	There are no differences of opinion in the coalition in changing the principles of minimum livelihoods. I hope that this bill will, when it arrives here, be supported by the Riigikogu even greater than the coalition. There is no concern about whether or not he will receive support. The fact is simply that there is no majority support for implementing acts in the current government coalition.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U108	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U109	Let us move on to the ninth question put by the member of the Riigikogu Anti Poolamets. This is answered by Minister of Justice Maris Lauri and the subject is surveillance. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U110	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. As you know, we have just heard in the courthouse of Rakvere a verdict in Marti Kuusik's case. When Judge Heli Väinaste read the judgment of justice, many were left unnoticed by a remarkable sentence that sounded right from the beginning. The Court's resolution states explicitly and in black and white: "To declare unlawful the permission of the Chief Prosecutor of the Viru District Prosecutor's Office, Ene Timmi, on 2 May 2019. " My question is about this information. What do you think should be the response to finding out about illegal surveillance and what should be done to ensure that surveillance is closely monitored? After all, these are very intensive activities that are damaging to fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U111	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U112	Thank you. I myself [no comment] and I actually recommend that members of the Riigikogu do not comment on pending matters. You interfere with the trial and may be interpreted as influencing the court. So I certainly do not comment on the ongoing trial and recommend that people in public positions do not do the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U113	The question to be specified. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U114	I understand surveillance is free. Tracing activity is completely free. I'm surprised to hear that from the Minister of Justice. The judgment must also not be commented on, even though it has been submitted to the public, and it is frightening because illegal surveillance is frightening. But, in principle, I agree with you in some respects about the fact that one of the main witnesses walks around Estonia, talks about the details of a closed hearing everywhere in the press. Goes and talks, goes and talks. So what's the detention of the trial? Are there any sanctions in these cases? I asked you a fundamental question of supervision, which [Marti Kuusik's case] was an example. I ask you about the principle, my first question was given in this example. We know that, at the moment, there have also been demands from Europe that surveillance be more rigorously regulated. This is a very serious issue. I would point out that on this occasion we can also generalise. What's important is what to do when the Witnesses walk around and talk about the biggest family secrets in closed court. What's the point of all this? What kind of obsession is that? I would like to know more abstractly from you on this subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U115	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U116	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. I'm sad that you're gonna pick up and twist the words I say and the thought I say. You shouldn't be doing this. That's why I refuse to comment on current cases, investigations. Surveillance procedures are regulated and these rules are respected. These activities can only be carried out in the case of offences provided for by law. They require permission from either the court or the prosecutor's office, depending on which action is under examination. You are mistaken that the European Court of Justice has intervened in surveillance activities. The use of communication data is not a surveillance activity. As we know, communication data is only information about where the phone is, whether it has been called, at which time it has been called and where it has been. This is not a tracking exercise, in which case you will not look inside the messages. It's not surveillance. I suggest you keep this very clearly in mind. We haven't had any complaints about surveillance. And it is clear that in legal disputes, the parties may have different understandings for as long as the proceedings are ongoing, the litigation will continue. We cannot say that one side is finally right and the other side is finally wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U117	And now one more question. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U118	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of Justice! Already in several cases, the Court has found violations by the prosecutor's office. The latest of these are the case of Eveli Vavrenjuk, the case of Kersti Kraft, the case of Marti Kuusik, their cases. The fact that it is the prosecutor's office, as a national prosecutor, that violates laws and human rights, is still very signicant and gives reason to doubt the functioning of our rule of law. I would point out that this issue is not related to cases pending in court, but my question comes about the activities of the prosecutor's office. I ask: how do you comment on the violations committed by the public prosecutor's office, and who will ultimately be responsible for these violations?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U119	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U120	Thank you. I don't quite understand why you feel so bad about the Estonian legal system, the prosecutor's office, the courts. You're only looking for a negative. In fact, these negative examples, once again, are not definitive. These have been taken from ongoing processes and these views and assessments may change. Maybe it's because your soul doesn't fit that one side is right from time to time, and the other half is wrong from time to time, and there are situations where it's the other way around. You'd probably like a situation where someone's always guilty and wrong. I do not want such a world, and I hope that there will never be such a world in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U121	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U122	Let's move on to question 10. It has been submitted by a member of the Riigikogu, Kalle Grünthal, to which Prime Minister Kaja Kallas answers and the subject is vaccination. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U123	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Kaja Kallas! The Faculty of Law of the University of Tartu has a very wise man like Raul Narits. He often has a habit of embarrassing his students. I remember how he turned to a student in the first class and said, please play the fifth symphony on the violin, Tchaikovsky's. The student was embarrassed to shut up. I didn't know what to say. [Raul Narits] turned to the following, and to the next, and to the next, until finally one clumsy: "I don't know how. " At that, he came to a very beautiful conclusion that a very right violin could not be played if it did not know how to play it. You have to learn to do that. I am telling such an instructive story precisely because when I asked you about the green turn on my previous question, you spoke very euphorically that everything would be fine. But why don't you listen to the wisdom of our scientists who have learned this area rather than talk nonsense? That was a comment to my first question. Here's my current question. Please tell me why the regional hospital has taken the decision that only students who have vaccinated themselves will be accepted [for practical training] from 1 July. Specifically, students who have received one dose of anti-COVID-19 will be admitted until 1 July. My question is that please provide a reference to the specific legislation on which such a non-constitutional, discriminatory decision is permitted.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U124	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U125	I very much agree with you that you need to learn to be smarter. Raul Narits was also my lecturer, and I can tell you that more interesting things happen during the fourth course in Raul Narits lectures. So it's always worth studying. As an alumni of the University of Tartu, I certainly commend the teaching activities there. As far as law is concerned, I believe that [actual] questions about judicial education need to be discussed. Now to your question. We have a constitution that says that a person has a right to life and health. This is one of the fundamental rights. We have certain places where people are exposed to a weaker immune system. For example, people who come to a hospital or are admitted to a hospital are usually ill and their immune system is weaker, so certain diseases can have fatal consequences if they are already suffering from another disease. And therefore, in the medical system, employers have asked for vaccination as one of the preconditions, precisely so that people's right to life and health is not put at risk.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U126	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U127	Let us move on to the 11th question posed by the member of the Riigikogu, Kert Kingo. This is answered by Minister of Justice Maris Lauri and the subject is the rule of law. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U128	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Justice! First of all, I'd like to adjust it again. At the moment, it is not my claim, your claim, or my opinion. We are talking about the legal system here, we are talking about the rule of law and how it works. If you don't pay attention to the mistakes, they'll both be fluctuating. The people's faith in them is beginning to waver. But here's my question. On 28 May, the Chief Prosecutor, Sirje Merilo, in the media, commented on Marti Kuusik's acquitted case in Viru County Court: "As we know, the victim can easily be silenced in matters of close relationship violence, using different methods. " He also added that violent ones do so in most things. Thus, the prosecutor points out that Marti Kuusik, whose alleged violence was not established in court, seemed to have forced the victim to remain silent. The prosecutor also calls Marti Kuusik violent, despite the fact that his alleged violence was not confirmed in court. In accordance with the Code of Ethics of Prosecutors, the prosecutor does not knowingly provide incorrect or misleading information. The prosecutor shall perform his or her duties professionally, objectively, fairly and honestly. Any behaviour indicating the potential bias of the prosecutor must be avoided. And now I ask you, do you, as Minister of Justice, think that a prosecutor who has so publicly violated the code of ethics of prosecutors can continue to work in his office? I would also like to know what you intend to do with unethical prosecutors.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U129	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U130	I understand your passion for defending a member of my party or a former minister of my party. I, once again, do not comment on these specific situations. I hope last night you listened to the attorney general's interview after the "Actual Camera" in Estonian Television, where he explained what some or other decisions meant. This was not a final decision in this case, but an ongoing process. Obviously, if the prosecutor goes to court, he'll be convinced of his position. He wouldn't go with that kind of attitude. So I don't see that there's a problem here. He stands for justice. He protects the law in Estonia and it is his duty to work. I think the prosecutors are convinced of [their views]. So stop dealing with specific cases relating to your party associates in the public domain, including misinformation. Be correct and allow justice to function properly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U131	The question to be specified. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U132	Thank you. Everything I read here can be watched nicely on TV3 news and Channel 2. It's all written down, it's not false information. Secondly, I am still pointing out that I am not talking about the case, I am not talking about the trial, I am talking about the ethics of the prosecutor's conduct. I would very much like to hope that, as Minister of Justice, you will be aware that there is a code of ethics for prosecutors. If not, please bring yourself up to speed. Now question two. Marti Kuusik's case witnessed a person who worked as a referee at the prosecutor's office until last week. This same person has itself admitted that he gave a hint to the Estonian Express in 2019, and he will actively continue to distribute non-uniform information through various channels, even after the acquittal verdict on Marti Kuusik. The fact that criminal proceedings were initiated on the basis of the words of the prosecutor's office's own official, without witnesses who had witnessed the victim and the alleged incident immediately, and that the same employee himself had witnessed the case, i.e. a clear conflict of interest, gives reason to believe that the Marti Kuusiku case is a genuine political process. The D.A.'s office has acted dirtyly in breach of established standards. Based on this information, what actions are you planning to take to give people faith in the rule of law that has shaken us? Please don't start talking about the case in court again. At the moment, we are not discussing the case, we are discussing people's behaviour outside the process.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U133	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U134	Thank you. What you're doing here right now is you're interfering with the process. You present your views from the perspective you like, from your subjective perspective. If you had listened to the Attorney General and other prosecutors, you would have been aware that the witness who has been in public did not work in the prosecution's office [at the time of appeal]. He was there temporarily, for a short time and certainly not while he lodged a complaint. But I understand that in your opinion, if a police officer, a prosecutor's office or a court official sees that something is being done wrong, he can't even report it, because there will be an immediate conflict of interest. I don't think that's the way it should be. I think that any person who sees that something is wrong should turn to the right authorities to get attention to such things. Whether it be children, whether it be domestic violence, whatever it is, we must all stand up for criminals not to be able to do harm, to harm vulnerable people, and domestic violence is one of the most brutal and vicious crimes in my opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U135	A further question. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U136	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The Estonian Penal Code regulates different types of crime, there are anti-personal, professional, etc. And it is a pleasure to note that the list of professional crimes includes, for example, crimes committed by judges, crimes committed by prosecutors, etc. The fact that Estonia is a rule of law already shows that I know quite a number of cases where the judge has been prosecuted and punished. This shows that Estonia is a rule of law and judges cannot make decisions at their own discretion. They need to consider all the circumstances so that the details of justice are clear and they must refrain from corrupting, not accepting bribery, etc. But there's an interesting thing about this whole joke: as far as I know, no prosecutor has yet been held responsible for their abuse of office. This is one of the most phenomenal events in Estonia's recent history. I don't know if you can tell me how many prosecutors have been prosecuted because his actions have been illegal. I don't think you can answer that. But now I'm asking you, are the prosecutors so honest that they haven't committed a crime in 30 years?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U137	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U138	Thank you. You have the right to know whether a prosecutor has been convicted or has been questioned by one of them. I really don't know. But I'll have that information sent to you, and then you can also answer the question why. It's not possible until then.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U139	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U140	Dear colleagues, honourable members of the Government of the Republic, we have until the end of Question Time. If any of the members of the Riigikogu wish to ask questions, please let us know. Please tell me who your question is, and then ask me a question. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U141	Thank you. The question is for Kaja Kallas. Here's my question. You said that the regional hospital had the right to impose a vaccination obligation on students, and you spoke about the right to life and health. But you didn't say a word about discrimination. I asked you to mention, please, that I hope my microphone works and you will hear me, this legislation that allows discrimination against students who wish to go to an internship in a regional hospital. I want to know the exact name of the legislation, I want to know the reference to the paragraph, paragraph and paragraph. You are a student of Raul Narits and you have done very well, so I believe that answering this question is not a problem for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U142	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U143	Thank you. Every workplace has its own requirements, which the employer imposes. They are different and depend on the job. For example, at a law firm there are requirements for clothing: When you meet people, you have to be presentable and look presentable. It could also be said here whether or not such claims are entitled to be made. There are certain prerequisites for each job [which depends on] where you can work and where you cannot work. There are also educational requirements in a large number of workplaces. Now that we're talking specifically about hospitals, I'm going to repeat that hospitals get people who are sick. Some suffer from more severe and milder illnesses, but when they get hospitalized, they are likely to be more serious. This means that the patient's immune system is also weaker. The Constitution says that a person has the right to life and health, that is one of the fundamental rights. However, a person's life and health are at risk when he or she is exposed to a weak immune system that carries a disease that may have a fatal effect on the patient. That is why hospitals also have certain hygiene requirements, and they all indicate that people, their health, must not be further affected. The employer has the right to impose such requirements precisely so that he can organise his work well. Now, let's take the hospital with the unvaccinated staff member, he's gotta be self-insulated, according to the rules, once he's been exposed to a COVID patient. There's a lot of demands. And in order to prevent the whole collective from going into isolation, there are preconditions for you to be able to work in this job at all. It's understandable. On one side, a person's right to refuse vaccination has been repeatedly said that this right is for a person, that we do not have compulsory vaccination, that vaccination is voluntary. But if you want to work in a certain job, there are certain prerequisites that you have to fulfil to work in such a job.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U144	I will conclude on this issue. I thank the members of the Government of the Republic for their answers, and I thank my colleagues for their questions. Question Time is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U145	Honourable Riigikogu! Good fellows! We will begin the 16th working week session of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Please to the Riigikogu speech chair in Uno Kaskpeiti!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U146	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 1 June, the Committee on Legal Affairs decided to present the Riigikogu's decision "The Parliamentary...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U147	Mr. Kaskpeit, I'm sorry for a moment. Colleagues! [[It's ringing the bell.]] A bill will be delivered. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U148	... the appointment of a member of the joint inspection working group" as Kalle Laanet's mandate as a member of the Riigikogu has stopped due to the appointment of a member of the Government of the Republic. The proposal of the Committee on Legal Affairs is to appoint Urve Tiidus, a member of the Riigikogu, as a member of the working group instead of Kalle Laanet. Thank you very much. The draft has been delivered electronically.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U149	I don't see any more wishes. I have adopted one draft and, of course, it will be decided by the Bureau in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I am asking for your attention, I have some messages to give. Today, there will be meetings in this Chamber to set up the following support groups: firstly, the support group for the Estonian population, and secondly, the support group for 6500 Estonian children living in deep poverty. All members of the Riigikogu who wish to join these support groups please contact Peeter Ernitsa. Now we're conducting a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U150	87 members of the Riigikogu registered as present.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U151	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the draft law 350 on the amendment of the Emergency Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote, but before that, we will be negotiating. Please, on behalf of the EKRE Group in Leo Kunnas. Kalle Grünthal, do you have a procedural question? Please, mike!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U152	Thank you. Raimond Kaljulaid was worried about me asking procedural questions today. So I'm going to say, is there going to be a presence check today or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U153	Mr. Grünthal, are you present in the Chamber of the Riigikogu? [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Thank you, there's been a presence check. Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U154	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will repeat the main points that I have already made on this draft at second reading. There are clear positive points in this draft, two of which are, of course, the creation of emergency stocks and the transfer of extensive evacuations from the Police and Border Guard Board to the Rescue Board. However, there are also clear shortcomings here, which we have put forward five constructive proposals, unfortunately of which only one found support. Two of the remaining proposals were substantive and two formal. I will give you more details on these two substantive proposals. The area of activity or competence of the Emergency Act should not be extended to prepare for threats to national security and constitutional order. This is clearly a matter of emergency law. As security authorities are also preparing for this on a daily basis in normal circumstances, it would in principle provide an opportunity for arbitrary interpretations and implementation under normal circumstances. That, however, should not be our goal. The second substantive problem concerns governance. The Government of the Republic, as a collective body, could not coordinate crisis management; this can be done as one particular person by the Prime Minister. But on the basis of a collective body, this solution would not work. The coordination of crisis management should also not be transferred from the Ministry of the Interior to the State Chancellery. It should stay the way it's been so far. The Ministry of the Interior is the only ministry that has the actual capacity to coordinate and manage the resolution of domestic crises. Unfortunately, it was not used in the autumn of last year and in the spring of this year. However, this does not mean that it will not work or that this role needs to be given to someone else. The State Chancellery does not have the capacity, structure or practical experience to perform this role successfully and the creation of such capacity would require the State Chancellery to carry out a ministry-like institution with all that is now necessarily to take place. Despite the positive aspects I have highlighted, these two reasons make it impossible for the Conservative People's Party of Estonia to support this draft. That's all. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U155	On behalf of the Isamaa Group, Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U156	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U157	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U158	Dear representative of the people, well, here we are! The Fatherland cannot support this bill in this form. However, this does not mean that it does not contain very sympathetic elements, the development of which we contributed with all our strength and advice when we were carrying the chariot ourselves. It's about the inventory agency. Of course, the state must have resources for crises, and this is the subject of the draft law that is being addressed as part of it. But this law is a complex, it has a number of independent circles of topics put together. As the good previous speaker mentioned, this is actually about crisis management. For us, there are three fundamental questions here which, according to this logic, are not appropriate to be dealt with. The first is that we must draw conclusions from the corona crisis. Parliament's proceedings were given a very large set of national defence laws during the previous government, several hundred pages of the explanatory memorandum and hundreds of sections of the law itself, and it provided for the creation of a single crisis management model for the whole country. Now, however, a paragraph has been torn out of it, and this paragraph is to be applied without the context in which it was located. We all know that in Parliament's Committee on National Defence there was a huge controversy and debate on this whole approach, there were different proposals, but now we are trying to solve the problem of crisis management or preparation for crisis policy through one section at a 'corner' point. And what is really problematic is this one paragraph, which concerns the collegial responsibility of the government, which would be operationally furnished by the State Chancellery. In fact, there is only one sentence in this law and it can be interpreted in a very different way if there is no such context as the National Defence Act. There must be clarity in the management of crises, but unfortunately this draft law is breaking down. This is not relevant. And more than that. Representatives of the State Chancellery, officials, assured the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that, before this law is passed and the ink can be dried up on paper, the government intends to come up with a new package already in June, which in reality should change the whole of this crepe. Maybe one trolleybus can't even get out of the depot when the other one comes in and it's all happening in a situation, respectable learned friends, where we still have a corona crisis. In the midst of a crisis management system to change our position, it is not appropriate. We need to learn from this crisis, some things were very well, some things need to change the system, there is no doubt about that. But it is clear that this cannot be done with one section in the middle of a crisis according to the logic that we are beginning to build the next draft law in this context. Thirdly, it is certainly a question for us about the transfer of competence to the State Chancellery. In our opinion, this certainly deserves to be considered and considered. In the context of all these circumstances, there is no doubt about the stronger enthusiasts in this country in matters of national defence and security than the friendly and always constructive team of the Fatherland. But in the current situation, we see that the concept of a single section, glued together, out of the whole package of the National Defence Act, does not really serve the systematic objective of clarifying the chain of command and more effective crisis management that we would like to see. So there's nothing catastrophic about this. It makes sense for us to take time off, not to support this law in this form, to remove those provisions that deal with stocks, and to adopt these provisions in a nice way. And these other issues could be dealt with in a holistic way in a consensual mind, as should the organisation of the security of a small, independent defence capacity and of a country wishing to counter external and internal threats. The Fatherland says yes to effective systemic crisis response. The Fatherland says yes to this system which provides for the establishment of a national reserve agency. However, we certainly do not say yes to the restructuring of the system-to-work crisis management by lifting one section out of the whole large-scale systemic package, which had been counted months ago on Parliament's table as a comprehensive solution to national defence law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U159	Heljo Pikhof, what's up?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U160	Thank you, Mr President. I'm very sorry there wasn't much to hear from Urmas Reinsalu. The movements of his hands, the mimic, the body language, you could see that his speech was soulful and emotional, but what he said was not heard. Maybe he's repeating his call.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U161	Thank you for this proposal. We all have the opportunity to contribute so that what is said about the chair can be heard. If you don't understand it, I'll use a bell. If you don't understand, I'll take the manager's break and ask you to calm down. Anyone who has something to talk to each other can do it outside the hall. I think we should respect the speakers in the chair. Mr. Grünthal!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U162	Thank you, Mr President. It is currently the case that Ivi Eenmaa, Member of the Reform Party Madis Milling and Member of the EKRE Kalle Grünthal are making a serious protest regarding the conduct of this sitting, as there is virtually nothing to be heard back here. We have just seen the pantomime of a good colleague, Urmas Reinsalu, but we need to hear what a person says.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U163	My answer is the same as I gave Heljo Pikhof: I ask you all to maintain dignity and respect for the person in this chair. I understand we haven't been together for a long time, but if you want to talk, please, we'll do it outside the hall. Indeed, while chairing the sitting of the Riigikogu, in the meantime, when we held long-distance sessions, there was only me and the speaker here, and it was much quieter. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U164	Well, of course, before the school year ends, there's still a shift in the benches, there's nothing unnatural about it. But hearing a request from the parliamentary benches that I repeat my report, I can say, Mr President, that I am ready for it. Each of my speeches is certainly unique, but with the same passion, I hope to return the speech. So please, manager, I'm ready to go back to the stage warmly without any preparation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U165	Mr Reinsalu, the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu are not ready for this. Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U166	Thank you very much, Mr President. Little clarification: The members of the Reform Party, Eenmaa and Milling, have not protested about the procedure for conducting the sitting, but they have stated to Mr Grünthal that it is indeed very bad to hear in the last bench.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U167	This has been taken into account. Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U168	Thank you. The same thing. It's not just because they're fidgeting in this hall. Last time, the problem was solved by getting the microphones set up and being perfectly heard even when the room was dissipated.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U169	So let's use all the possibilities: let's, if possible, let the technical staff turn a little bit more volume on the speakers, take the opportunity to be a little more quiet ourselves, and advise those people who come to the speaker's chair to use their vocal cords a little bit more strongly and speak a little louder. I hope we're done with the procedural questions. It seems that there is no further wish for negotiations. I will close the negotiations and go to the preparation of the final vote on the draft. Ladies and gentlemen, We are in the final vote on the draft law 350 on the amendment of the Emergency Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. I would point out that a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required for the adoption of the bill as a law. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U170	The draft was supported by 54 members of the Riigikogu, against 41 members of the Riigikogu. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U171	We will move on to today's second item on the agenda: Indrek Saare, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Jürgen Ligi, Signe Riisalo, Yoko Alenderi, Helmen Küti, Lauri Läänemetsa, Siret Kotka, Andrei Korobeinik, Raimond Kaljulaid, Oudekki Loone, Katri Raigi, Jüri Jaansoni, Toomas Kivimägi, Johannes Kerdi, Mart Võrklaat, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Kalvi Kuld, Jaak Juske, Riina Skikutti, Heljo Pikhof, Liina Kersna and Madis Milling, third reading of the draft law amending the Law on Animal Protection and Nature Conservation Act 219. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Yoko Alender Reform Party Group, please! Ladies and gentlemen, please! [[It's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U172	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. First of all, animal welfare problems in fur farms can't be overlooked. They mainly grow foxes, mink and chinchillas. There are still chinchillas and foxes left in Estonia, but several hundred thousand minks were also present on our farms a few years ago. The report on animal welfare in fur farms commissioned by the European Commission highlights a number of intrinsic concerns about the housing of animals in fur farms that cannot be resolved without the industry becoming economically non-profitable. In the case of minks, for example, the current regulation provides that there must be room for 0.25 square metres per mink in the cage. The bottom of the cage, or floor, is wired to allow animal droppings to fall directly onto the ground. The minks, as semi-aquatic animals, do not have any opportunity to swim during their lifetime. On the basis of the European Commission's survey on fur animals, such conditions are detrimental to the well-being of mink, as they do not provide an opportunity to meet important needs. The most serious concerns are limited mobility and lack of action. The European Commission's report also points out that these animals, which live in the wild, do not have the opportunity to avoid contact with hundreds of thousands of other animals on fur farms, causing aggression, self-harm or attacking and stress on their cage mates. In the case of foxes, the regulation in force in Estonia lays down 0.8 square metres per animal. In the case of chinchillas, the lack of opportunities for movement and action is also a major concern, like foxes and minks. In addition, chinchillas are very good jumpers; they can jump up to two metres high. The cages on the bear farm are considerably smaller and can therefore cause injury to them. The chinchilla cage is 40 centimeters high. For countries where no road to ban fur farms has taken place, but the requirements for minks to have several square metres of clearance space and swimming pool (e.g. in Italy) have been abolished, as ensuring such conditions would make fur production in farms economically non-profitable. Indeed, more has been said about animal welfare in recent years here too, and this is a good sign because we have the opportunity to pay attention to even the weakest in society, who cannot stand up for themselves and alleviate their own suffering. During these ten years, when the ban on fur farms has been discussed in Estonia, today this is the third time in the Riigikogu, the market has been able to make its own corrections and the livestock farming industry is about to cease its activities. In 2015, there were 75 jobs in the sector and around 200000 animals. Today there are less than 1000 animals and 11 workers. From this it can be concluded that the sector has virtually decreased by 99% over a decade. According to March, the animals are kept on four small chinchilla farms and one fox farm. The largest fur farm in Estonia, once located in Karjaküla, owned by Finns, the last animals in leather at the end of last year, and did not continue the new production cycle due to the unfavourable situation on the market. Several factors have affected this major decline. On the one hand, the global fur market is at a great low; on the other hand, prices are low in auctions. There was also a great deal of unsold skin due to the Corona virus, with reduced income. Public opinion has also changed a great deal. With the development of consumer awareness and responsible entrepreneurship, a large number of consumers in the fashion industry and many leading fashion companies have also abandoned the use of fur from fur farms. The market situation has also been affected by the increase in the number of countries that have banned fur farms. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U173	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U174	These countries include, for example, Great Britain, Norway, the Netherlands, Austria, Croatia, Slovenia, Macedonia, Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Slovakia, Luxembourg, Belgium, the Czech Republic, France and Ireland. Fox farms have been banned in Denmark and Sweden, and in many countries the political debate about banning is still underway, such as Poland, Lithuania, Ukraine and Bulgaria. In Finland, too, the ban on fur farms is one of the points of the debate on major innovations in the Animal Protection Act this spring. Now for public opinion. The results of public opinion studies have shown a gradual increase in the support of Estonian residents for this draft and the ban on fur farms. The latest results were obtained from a survey conducted by Kantar Emor in March this year asking whether the cultivation and execution of foxes, minks and chinchillas for fur purposes should be allowed in Estonia. The result was that 75% of the Estonian population felt that this should not be allowed. And actually, if you look at these research results from different social groups, you can see that support is high among all party supporters and among both urban and rural residents. In many countries, it is the leaders of the ban that have a conservative view of the world, and in other countries it is the opposite, the liberals. I would also like to stress that we are also dealing with the initiative of members of the Riigikogu, not a draft government. Many interest groups have also launched petitions, the last of which received the necessary 1000 signatures of support in less than a day. This same petition was also the impetus for the draft that came to third reading today. Supporting this draft is an opportunity to show support for a highly supported civil society initiative. As a result of the Commission's work, an amendment has been introduced which will ensure a transitional period of five years so that the 11 people [currently in this sector] who are occupied can find new challenges and move forward in other areas. The majority of the Reform Party Group supports this draft and I call on you to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U175	On behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Peeter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U176	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Maybe I'm a criminal. I've had chickens, geese, turkeys, quails and rabbits for years, not to mention dogs and cats. And some of them had to be killed. Dear Estonian farmers, livestock farmers! If this bill were to materialise under the pressure of extremists, then you too will be targeted at some sooner, others later. I can't tell you if the next ones are pig farmers, chicken farmers, or maybe horse farmers. Imagine somebody sits on a horse and whips him! We don't really kill 'cause we don't eat a lot of horse sausage here. But farm animals are a little different kind of animals. They have been bred for longer or shorter breeding, who fat, who meat, who milk, who fur, who gets eggs, and most of them are unable to manage independently in nature, or it is difficult for them. Unlike you, I've worked in a zoo for years and studied the behaviour of cage animals as a scientist. If you have any idea that an animal is being tortured in captivity, caged or volleyd, then, friends, you're talking about things you don't know. There are other rules in zoos and cages. In the case of animals, it is essential that they have food and drink in front of their nose and that they have the best possible living conditions. But guaranteeing them is the task of an animal keeper, if he wants to produce, wants as much eggs as possible, fat, meat, milk, proper tight fur. If he begins to torture animals, for example, by not feeding or drinking his cow, he will not receive much milk, or eggs from chickens or fur from furs. It's as simple as that! It's an indicator that shows whether the animals are feeling well or not. Of course, you can always say, when it comes to a cage, that a few square meters or a few square decimetres more would be better. I'm sure it would be better. People would be better, even children would be better if everyone had their own room and didn't have to have two or three together. Mr Alender has just said here that we have about 1,000 more fur animals and that they are being tortured and that we must put them out of their misery. Yesterday, on Child Services Day, it turned out that we have 6,500 children living in absolute poverty. I'm not gonna talk about how big a room they have or whether they even have their own room. They don't have any food or drink or anything. But we're gonna shut up like boars in the rye and try to destroy an industry that's really low right now. Guys, come to your senses! One thing is ethics. The first is ethics. Look, if we get the pets out of our yard, it's the fur animals, the chickens, or whoever they are, they're going somewhere else, and they're going to be kept there. But in the European Union, the conditions for cage animals are much better than in China, Russia, Bangladesh or any third country. That's one side of it. And when you talk about the pain of animals and all of it, it's a very Phariseeous story that we stop keeping them here and then the animals are happy. No, they're not. They're going somewhere else! By the way, we have a neighbouring country in Finland where this sector is booming and there is no death agony. But that's it. In short, a little bit more about what it means. This means that there is also a restriction of freedom of business for members of the Reform Party, friends. We have a constitution. Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise has drawn attention to several provisions of the Constitution: § 29, 31 and 32. Everyone has the right to freely choose their occupation and engage in business activities, and there is a fundamental right of ownership. But we will limit this [right] if you agree to this draft. That's the first thing. This [position] is taken from the letter from the Chancellor of Justice, which forms part of this draft. The Chancellor of Justice also says that only after we have adopted the draft will he assess its constitutionality. That's another thing. The Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Rural Affairs and other officials have said that there is no money in the state budget to pay compensation to undertakings currently [in this sector]. That's the second point. We are going to discuss and adopt a draft, where there is no money to compensate for this [the consequences]. And also, to quote a recent letter, they have spoken of the fear of coronation and whatever it is about the mints, about how some people infect people, and so on. Hey, this is bullshit! If you look at the reports of the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) and the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) this year, it can be considered that this risk is minimal. I'm talking about mints. We don't have any minks on our farms, there shouldn't be any. The threat is minimal! COVID vaccines have also been introduced in Finland, of three types: Finnish-made, U.S. protein-based and Russian-based. And in Denmark, which has been mentioned, [some education] is limited. Remember, all the massacres that were there, the result of which the Minister for Rural Affairs had to resign, and all the scandals. There is this temporary restriction, not eternal, as we here want to do with this draft of good colleagues now at the third attempt. This whole bill rests, to put it mildly, on porridge legs, the information. Both I and the rest of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia should not give in to it. We are firmly voting against this bill, so I am voting as an animal friend and keeper. I fully understand what torture is and what it is not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U177	Jevgeni Ossinovski, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U178	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this issue has already been sufficiently addressed in this Parliament at first and second reading. Mr Alender summarised these fundamental arguments concerning the reasons why Parliament, for the third time in its three formations, discusses this issue in a way that has actually been accompanied by ever-wider support at each time, both in this Chamber and in society as a whole. There are 23 out of three groups who are the initiators of this draft. Thank you all for signing this paper when I came to you last spring. Several people have also left Parliament, mostly to the government. I have read that, in the course of these three attempts (in 2014 was the first), 36 Members have been through the three formations, who have been at the start of this draft. That we've come this far by now, it's been a long way. It is appropriate to thank Barbi Pilvre, who is not here with us today, but who, in the last two compositions, has carried it for the bill and has laid the foundations on it himself. As the initiator of this draft, one of the initiators, I would also like to thank the current Chair of the Committee on the Environment, who has been holding the floor and has really taken the subject this far this semester. Thank you. Thanks to Erki Savisaar, even though she's not here right now. He does not support this bill, but the discussions that we have been able to hold have been good and important. I would also like to thank Tarmo Tamme, under whose leadership we had a very important debate in the Committee on Rural Affairs in the context of one of the petitions that was submitted last year. I think they've all been small building blocks from which this wall has been laid. So where are we today? We are indeed on the verge of a historic decision today, and I think that together we will also be able to make this decision, thanks to the support of the various parties on this draft. However, I still have to comment on these counter-arguments coming from the National Populists' ranks. There is nothing new about them, but I think it is important to mention one more important of them, precisely because Mr Ernits has said it more clearly than ever in today's speech. Peeter has been struck by clarity of thought, a good sign. I'll take some more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U179	Yes, you can. Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U180	Of course, one of the explanations that I have spoken about at second reading and perhaps even at first reading is not going to repeat it, is a slippery slope argument. It's a common demagogue thing, but Peter doesn't let it bother him, of course. And today again: look now, watch out, soon pigs, cows, chickens and I don't know who else if we stop doing this little cruel business in Estonia. Well, it's not a bad guy, it's not a valid argument. Of course, animal welfare is also important in other areas and this issue needs to be discussed, but the conclusion [as Peter made] cannot be drawn. I've been thinking, what is the essence of this mindset for those people who oppose it? It used to be said it was a big industry, but today it's not. Why is it being restricted? I think it is actually deeper and hits the question, and it was precisely today that Peter put it that way. In the past, I think he has said it in the Commission in a way that makes animals more important to you than humans. Today, Peter spoke of starving children or children living in absolute poverty. No, Peter, animals are more important than humans, not to me, not to any of the initiators or to the people in front of this house who support the ban on fur farms. In order to reduce child poverty, this is a very important issue, and I have invested quite a lot in my political career to achieve this, my party has done so, yours not so much, it is possible to make animals untortured. To reduce child poverty, animals do not need to be tortured. In fact, there is no logical connection between these two things. But to put it more seriously, this confrontation actually reflects this broader post-technistic ideology of possession of nature, that if man is able to change nature, take control of nature, then he can do what he wants because he has power. Based on this ideology, the world order and also Estonian society have been operating for some time with disastrous results. With joint efforts, we have even managed to get the global climate off balance, which has been stable for thousands of years. I think it should be clear to everyone today that this thinking needs a fundamental change, that we need to think more about how we are working in harmony with the nature we are part of and with the fellow creatures who share this planet with us. And in this context, one might ask, in every act that harms nature and biodiversity, whether it is absolutely necessary, whether we can actually do less harm, more good and take the path of restoring nature, because that is actually the greatest challenge for future generations to eliminate the natural damage that our ancestors have left behind us without their knowledge. I think that this decision is a sign in this context, because it really speaks of a completely different picture of the world, not of this picture of the world, that if a man has an axe, he can cut anything, but of the fact that he has to deal with himself, the nature around us and the other inhabitants who share this environment with us much more carefully. So don't be afraid of this bill. I think it's an important decision. I thank everyone who has contributed to the fact that we have come this far and, of course, I call on everyone to support this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U181	Peter Ernits wants a reclining. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U182	What do I say? The slippery slope and the peak of demagogy, just as Evgeni has learned it. But I'm talking about content. You don't want to talk about torture, Evgeny, if you don't know what's going on. We're talking about domestic animals and domesticated animals. They are bred by man, and people, livestock farmers, are responsible for their welfare. It's very important about this. To talk about the torture and pain of pigs, cattle and chickens, this is a very hollow talk. In fact, this also applies to catching fish, and I drew attention to this in the previous reading. There are also fishermen in sight, 100,000 fishermen. The "Cute Fish" program, I recall, good fishermen, you are also targeted.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U183	Andres Metsoja, on behalf of the Isamaa Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U184	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Dear Members, Good animal friends! When Papa Jannsen founded Pärnu Postimees, he did not address Estonians with the words "Good people of the country!" but he turned to the Estonians with the words "Good people of Estonia!'. Maybe it was a sign of an era. Just as the sign of one era is today, maybe it's even a longer period that we're talking about animal welfare. I think it's hard to find people in this hall or on the street who say that animal welfare isn't important. Of course, there are always dissidents and misbehaviors, and these cases have been dragged to the public and very strongly condemned. Surely this debate has created passion in society, but it has not necessarily increased the welfare of animals. Indeed, this industry has pulled itself together for various reasons. When we talk about this as a form of enterprise, we also need to talk about the fact that animals are behind it, on the one hand, but on the other hand, people who create these forms of enterprise, invest, draw up business plans, take risks and share them. The Isamaa Group is deeply concerned, in particular, that if we decide to ban something, we should also provide for the public interest, the background and the responsibility for the people who have taken these risks. Indeed, as a counter argument, it has always sounded out of the animal welfare heading that [the ban on farms] is of public interest. The public interest today is that there is no farm of fur animals in Estonia. This public interest is in many other countries, and it is also today, here and now. But when we talk about the public interest, we need to emphasise over what the cost of that public interest is. It cannot be an individual, an individual, who has knowingly taken the opportunity and the risk of operating in a certain sector of the economy in the judicial area. Look, this problem is much wider. This problem concerns nature conservation. This problem is growing in Estonia for certain infrastructure objects, which we talk about every day dominance of public interest over private property. And this problem must inevitably accompany this animal issue. It is impossible to talk to people in this language that you are able to do something else. You see, up to now, fur production did not receive European Union subsidies because it is not a favourite sector of activity. But now, if you decide to move to another course of action, continue as an entrepreneur, you will be able to receive diversification support. But let us not forget that every individual has the constitutional right not to continue, but to stop, and compensation, as a common interest, cannot only lie on the shoulders of one legal or natural person. This must not be the case, it is contrary to our constitution. [It is not right that] we are not talking about it in this Chamber or are trying to slip past it with the answer that we will look in the future when this law is passed and the amendment is made, even though it is said that there are no resources for this in the state budget today, we will see if these funds come into existence. Good Parliament, let us not do this. In a sense, we are overshadowing with one great interest, one great ambition that sounds on the street, someone's activity, someone's income, someone's lifeline. There may be few of these people, but this practice is disturbing. Unfortunately, it is therefore very difficult to support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U185	On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party Andrei Korobeinik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U186	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, there have been very different speeches here, and I am very far from the idea that I here can influence anyone in making a decision. But I would like to draw attention to some aspects that are important to the Centre Party. First of all, this is not some big step on the road to veganism. This bill is not about us banning chicken houses and dairy farms here, it is not about fish or horses. It is about fur animals that currently live on Estonian fur farms. Of course, it cannot be ruled out that, in ten years' time, for example, we will have the cheap and high-quality meat created under laboratory conditions, which is exactly the same as the real meat, but that we will not have to use slaughterhouse services to obtain it. Then we can really talk about it, but it's a very, very long way to go. We're talking about a very specific matter right now, bear farms. The very correct observation was that although yes, indeed, these coats are becoming a feature of certain social groups, they are still being bought, and if Estonian farms go to prison, they will not be bought without ice. With this action[that we ban farms], of course, we support to some extent those countries that continue with this industry. The European Union quite actively prohibits the keeping of fur animals, which means that other countries where housing conditions can be much more difficult will benefit from it. It's the subject of a bigger debate. I don't think today is the right place and the right time. But indeed, I, too, think that simply by a fine example, will not stop keeping fur animals in these countries or, for example, using child labour. It is a longer topic, but we are only talking about what is happening in Estonia. There was a statement that the Reform Party was a liberal party. The Centre Party is also a liberal party and we too stand for freedom of business. And we, too, are of the opinion that the state should not intervene where excessive intervention is unreasonable. But there are situations where that makes sense. For example, let us recall slavery: a very large and powerful industry, many jobs and I am not talking about slaves here. Prohibiting it led to the bankruptcy of quite a few companies, people lost their jobs. It was a great personal tragedy for a lot of people. But the world did it. Believe me, Estonia will manage, too. I am a long way from the idea that we must marginalise the people who are currently active in this industry. There aren't many, there's a dozen. But there are very strong experts among them, and I believe that, in cooperation with the country, they will be able to find applications, in particular, in agriculture. By adopting this law, we are sending out a clear signal that bear breeding is an industry in which we do not want to invest in the future. But this transition period is long enough to find an application elsewhere. This bill isn't some sort of... I'll take some extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U187	It will. Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U188	Thank you. ...such a vegan snowflake creation. I am very pleased that the Riigikogu is initiating its own laws; there could be more of them. It begins to quietly forget that Parliament is, in fact, exactly where the laws could come from. And I hope there will be more and more of them in the future. This bill is our chance to make the world a better place with one push of a button. Let's take this opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U189	I will close the negotiations and we will go to the commission's proposal for a final vote. Let's get ready for this. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting before you on the draft law amending the Law on Animal Protection and the Law on Nature Conservation 219. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U190	The draft was supported by 55 members of the Riigikogu, against 19. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U191	Let us move on to the third item on today's agenda. For this purpose, the second reading of the draft amendment to the Riigikogu decision "Constitution of a Problem Committee on the Development of Estonian Language Learning" submitted by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Estonian Centre Party has been submitted. I would like to ask Oudekki Loone, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to act as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U192	Ladies and gentlemen, This bill was passed at first reading in Riigikogu plenary on 10 March. The first reading of the draft was closed and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 25 March. A total of 270 amendments to the draft were tabled by the deadline. A total of 214 amendments were tabled by five groups of members of the EKRE Group and 56 amendments were tabled by the Members of the Isamaa Group. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs prepared the draft for a second reading at its meeting on 18 May. The chairman of the committee, Toomas Kivimägi, acknowledged all the political groups of the Riigikogu for their constructive negotiations and mentioned that all political parties were prepared to seek a compromise in order to find a form of organisation that would be acceptable to everyone in the case of special committees. Mr Kivimägi pointed out that all the amendments had been withdrawn by 18 May, during the meeting of the Commission, and this move was conditional on the agreement between all the political groups that the draft decision stipulates that the problem committee on the development of the Estonian language is to be formed on the basis of the principle of equal representation of the coalition and opposition, and consequently the Committee on Constitutional Affairs may propose a corresponding amendment to the draft decision. Mr Kivimägi also mentioned that in the interests of better regulation, an amendment should also be made concerning the date of entry into force of the draft decision. The draft list of amendments contained two amendments. The first of these reworded the decision as follows: "To set up a Committee on Problems in the Development of Estonian Language Learning. The Commission shall be formed on the basis of the principle of equal representation between the coalition and the opposition. " The Commission decided to present and support this proposal. It was voted on. There were 9 members in favour of the proposal, no one opposed, and no abstentions. Peeter Ernits, Toomas Kivimägi, Andrei Korobeinik, Oudekki Loone, Lauri Läänemets, Paul Puustusmaa, Urmas Reinsalu, Marko Storm and Mart Võrguship voted in favour. Amendment 2 was to delete point 2: "This decision will enter into force when it is signed. "The reason for this was that since the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure provides that the decision of the Riigikogu will enter into force by signing, the text of the law will no longer need to be repeated in the decision. If we'd like a second deadline, it should be written down. The Commission also decided to present this proposal in a consensual manner. There were nine members in favour, all the same ones whose names I already read out. We then made procedural decisions. It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 2 June 2021, by consensus, and to propose that the second reading of the draft be terminated and that the final vote on the draft be carried out. This decision was also made by consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U193	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U194	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! You're saying there was a compromise. But what were the offers on the table? Well, just so we know. As a vigilante, I should have the right to decide that this was a compromise. What was on the table that made that decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U195	Since no compromise was sought at the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and no parliamentarians present did come up with this issue, we did not discuss it either.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U196	Tarmo Kruusimäe, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U197	Well, now it is difficult for me to say to my constituents, for example, that no compromise was born in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but it was born somewhere else. And yet, what were the offers? Was there one, for example, that would not allow any member of the opposition to come near the Commission, and the other one was such that it would continue on the same grounds, and then a compromise was born? Can't you tell me that? At least you have information that someone came and announced that there is now such a compromise. But I'd still like to know what the offers were on the table.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U198	Thank you. I think you can ask the chairman of your group, who was certainly represented in finding this compromise. For us in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I am here as rapporteur for the Commission, the chairman of the committee brought this compromise. As far as I know, these discussions were held informally between all political forces, and it can certainly be said that there was no suggestion anywhere that any political group represented in the Riigikogu could be completely excluded from the committee. There was no such proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U199	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U200	I have a question relating to the idea of setting up a Committee on Problems. When such a committee is set up, it is usually a goal. When this Commission was set up two and a half years ago or a little less, it had one objective. In the meantime, the coalition has changed. Please tell me whether you can formulate with what purpose this Committee on Problems is currently in existence. That's one. Secondly, how can we, in two years' time, check whether the Commission has achieved its objective or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U201	As the name of the Commission says, it deals with the development of teaching the Estonian language. The way in which this committee operates is, of course, like all the other committees, to decide on the members. Members are free to decide how to plan the Commission's work accurately and what to focus on. This Commission has so far done an excellent job and pointed to a great many of the bottlenecks in our teaching system, in the availability of our teaching materials, in all other things of this kind. I believe that it will continue to do the same good work, and I believe that everyone who becomes a member of this committee will take the development of the Estonian language as a matter of heart, formulate the objectives that are to be achieved during its membership, and hopefully present the results to this Chamber as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U202	No further questions for you. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U203	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Today there is another point on the agenda [of Estonian language] and it will probably come when [it is already much quieter in this Chamber]. I don't know if it's quite the silence of the COVID, but it's likely that during the discussion of the Estonian language development plan, it will be much quieter in this hall than it was at the beginning of the session. I do not think there is anyone in this Chamber who would dispute the need to protect the Estonian language. Our Constitution states that Estonian language and culture are protected by the Constitution. But I personally like the fact that there are both committees of concern and of inquiry in Parliament and that there is a parliamentary debate. Our debate in this big hall is relatively narrow, limited. Even a speech cannot be given a second time if colleagues did not listen to it [the first time], and the working form does not allow us to have much debate among ourselves, and we keep talking in the form of a monologue. The [Estonian language] development plan contains a description of the current situation and the development needs of the sector as a problem. I quote: "The bottlenecks are the inadequacy, lack or lack of uniform quality of the corps required for central and coordinated term development, the development of language technology, terminology and terminology, and the compilation of dictionaries. [---] The main bottleneck is education language issues at all levels of education, including teaching children with different home languages separately at basic education level, English-languageization of higher education, quality and provision of adult Estonian as a second language. " We obviously have problems with the Estonian language. On the one hand, the danger that Estonian will become a cuisine language if we do not find solutions in higher education and, on the other hand, the big and deep problem of teaching the Estonian language to children in other languages as well as to adults. I have been involved in the work of this Committee on Problems for a year and a half, and I say that the problems that piled up on the table are, on the one hand, surprising. We've been dealing with these problems for 30 years, but they're still on the table. I had a simple idea and idea that we would take positive examples and scenarios and transfer them to where there are bottlenecks. But it turns out we don't have a general overview of where and what's good and what's not good. We do not see the system behind these numbers, but we have the individual results of a few years on which we can only say that this year at this school was a good one. But knowing how much this is for students and how much to do with the system, unfortunately, we don't. That is why, I think, it is particularly important that, unlike the next committee on the problem of resolving the population crisis, which I believe is the same problem for the Estonian population and is perhaps even worse and more complicated than the problem of the Estonian language, and whose coalition has decided to abolish, at least not with the Estonian language committee. I think it is very important that we continue to discuss the protection, development and teaching of the Estonian language in this Chamber, so that this language lasts as long as possible, and thus our culture and people. The Fatherland does not support this bill, and there is quite a simple reason for it. The method by which the coalition came into this Chamber with these discussions, we remember, at first reading, when it was not yet known the so-called compromise that was being presented here today. In fact, it has been quite simple practice in this Parliament to set up committees of inquiry and concern so far: they are made up of representatives of parliamentary groups. Now, however, the coalition has decided to change this practice, and that is why the Fatherland does not support this bill, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U204	Tarmo Kruusimäe, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U205	Yeah, I have a procedural question. I read there's a second reading, but we're processing the draft decision. Does this mean that, as is the case at second reading, others, other than the representative of the group, may express their views?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U206	Yes, if you wish, you can express your opinion. Press the "Word" button. Yeah, that's the rules. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U207	Thank you, good vice chairman. I am honoured to be in this committee of concern for the longest time. And since I did not get a clear answer from the rapporteur, he referred to something else here, perhaps one real problem is that the Reform Party had found its representative there, but during years of Commission experience, he actually arrived at the Commission once. Mistap is perhaps a different interpretation, isn't it? Pluralism and the multiplicity of opinions are now two members of the Reform Party bringing together one MP on two. That's what this bill is all about, isn't it? But I do not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U208	I'm closing the negotiations. We have also tabled amendments, we will review them. Amendment 1 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the lead committee has taken full account of it. Amendment 2 is also from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and has been fully taken into account. We have examined the amendments. The commission has proposed a final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I would like to vote before you on the draft decision of the Riigikogu to amend the decision of the Riigikogu "Construction of the Problem Committee on the Development of Estonian Language Learning." Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U209	55 members of the Riigikogu supported the proposal and 20 opposed it. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U210	Our fourth item is the amendment of the decision of the Riigikogu "Construction of the Problem Committee on Resolution of the People's Crisis" initiated by the Estonian Reform Party Group and the Estonian Centre Party Group. The second reading is presented by Toomas Kivimägi, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U211	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed this draft decision in preparation for its second reading at its meeting on 18 May. In addition to the ordinary Members of the Commission, Mr Peeter Ernits, who was at the time an alternate for Mr Kalle Grünthal, took part in the session. A total of 206 amendments to the draft decision were received, all from the members of the EKRE Group. From the very beginning, I would like to sincerely congratulate the EKRE Group for its willingness to withdraw a whole of 200 amendments. This obviously simplified the work of the Commission and certainly saved a great deal of time in this large Chamber today for our colleagues, members of the Riigikogu. So thank you very much for that. Six amendments were not withdrawn by Mr Peter Ernits. He was one of those six performers, in fact there were more performers. In this context, we came to the first place of interpretation: if one amendment has been tabled by three members of the Riigikogu and two of them have withdrawn the proposal, but the third has not done so, then the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has clearly taken the view that in this case this amendment has not been withdrawn. To be withdrawn, anyone who tabled this amendment should have withdrawn it. Only in this case could it have been deemed to have been withdrawn. First of all, I think it is important to note that at the meeting of the Commission [at the beginning of the debate on this draft] Urmas Reinsalu said that the Isamaa Group did not support the cessation of the committee's work on the problem of resolving the population crisis and did not agree with the other groups on this matter. Mr Ernits then spoke, explaining why he did not consider it possible to withdraw six amendments. The main reason was that, when we had repeatedly emphasised at first reading that dealing with these problems would not go away, both the Social Affairs Committee and the Chairman of the Committee on Culture continued to deal with them in the Riigikogu in their speech, saying very clearly that there is no need to worry, the Social Affairs Committee will deal with these problems in the future, and, as I said before, the Committee on Culture has also said, but, in fact, oh surprise, it turned out that the duties and activities of the permanent committees of the Riigikogu are not regulated in any law. And it seems to be a very conscious decision. Mr Peeter Ernits explained at the committee meeting that he had been in contact with Mr Jüri Raidla on this subject, who had said that it was indeed a very conscious decision: not to list the fields of activity and tasks of permanent committees in the law. There is only one permanent committee whose activities and tasks are listed in the law, that is the Committee on European Union Affairs. That is not the case with others. The reason was that this might unduly restrict the possibility for committees to deal with precisely those issues for which there should be a need. Otherwise, the question may arise: if the subject is not on the list, where has one or the other Commission been able to deal with this issue? So once again, drawing attention to this fact was absolutely appropriate for Mr Peeter Ernitsas. In the law, once again, there is no list of permanent committees' tasks or activities. However, the tasks of permanent committees are listed on the Riigikogu website. The Riigikogu website contains a list of the areas that one or the other permanent committee deals with. I then asked the committee in a somewhat ironic way to find out the name of the person who wrote the list there. Indeed, this is a non-formal approach. I don't think there's even one particular person who's written this list on the website. It doesn't really have any formal significance. But since it is still a website of the Riigikogu, of course people believe what is written there. What is even more important, however, and which once again confirms that Mr Peeter Ernits's observation was indeed relevant, neither in the list of tasks and activities on the website of the Committee on Social Affairs nor in the list of activities on the Riigikogu's website, there are no population issues. There are a number of other topics, but there are no population issues. Consequently, after a long discussion at the committee meeting, I proposed that I am prepared to write a letter to the management board of the Riigikogu in the form of a proposal that an authorised person, whose name I do not know, should be included in the list of activities of the committees, both in the case of the Social Committee and in the case of the Committee on Culture. Indeed, this is the letter I made and sent a copy of it to Mr. Peeter Ernits. As far as I am aware, the Bureau has referred this letter to the appropriate group of experts set up to review the so-called possible amendments to the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act. That's today's situation. At least, as far as I know, this decision has been made by the Board of the Riigikogu. I also asked whether Mr Ernits would be willing to withdraw these amendments, given that I would forward such a letter to the Bureau. However, Mr Peeter Ernits was of the opinion that, as long as there was no specific answer and its formal representation at least in the specific wording on the website, he was not prepared to withdraw these amendments. Urmas Reinsalu asked, among other things, that since Mr Peeter Ernits' amendments were actually aimed at amending the law on the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu in this case, we are still talking about the draft decision, whether the draft decision can change the law. Indeed, I, too, believe that this is obviously not relevant to the draft decision. But we all know that this is not at all a complaint or a irony about these specific amendments, that it is not really a basis for the Commission to dismiss the amendments. Despite the fact that it's not legitimate, it's as strange as it is. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that such a debate could be before us in the near future. It would still be very natural that amendments which are not lawful, or amendments that do not relate to the subject matter of the draft law, could be left unchecked by the Commission. This is not an option at the moment. The amendments were then voted on. Amendments 1 to 3 are Mr Peeter Ernitsat; they are quite identical, i.e. he is not in favour of losing the committee until the corresponding additions have been introduced at least on the Riigikogu's website or in any other act. These are very similar proposals and they were disregarded by the Commission. Amendment 4, tabled by Mr Ernits, had its historical links and reasons. Mr Peeter Ernits' proposal was such that we should not take this decision until the position of the President of the Riigikogu has been heard. We're talking about Mr. Jüri Ratas, and there's actually a reference to his father. However, the Commission did not support this proposal either. Amendment 5 concerns the entry into force of the law. We proposed to amend paragraph 5 of the Riigikogu decision of 3 May 2011 on the establishment of a problem committee for the resolution of a public crisis and to formulate it as follows: "The mandate of the Commission will last until 8 June 2021. " Since it took a little longer to deal with this draft decision than originally planned (the earlier deadline was 1 March 2021), this amendment was logical and supported by the Commission. Amendments 6 and 7 were also tabled by Mr Peeter Ernitsa, once again having the same taste as 1. Amendment: he was concerned that these tasks should be fixed in some kind of act before we decide to wind up the Committee on the Population Crisis. Finally, the Commission took the following procedural decisions: First, to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 2 June 2021 (by 5 members: Toomas Kivimägi, Andrei Korobeinik, Oudekki Loone, Marko Storm and Mart Võrklaev; against 3 members: Peeter Ernits, Paul Puustusmaa and Urmas Reinsalu) and to propose that the second reading of the draft be completed and the final vote on the draft (by 5, the same people; against 3, the same people). Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U212	The question is Helir-Valdor Seeder. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U213	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Here we have now discussed two committees in succession, the problem committee on Estonian language and the problem committee on population. On one occasion, I understand that you personally have found, and also as a result of the Commission's debate, it was found that the Committee on Social Affairs can carry out these tasks in a broad way. In the case of the Estonian Language Commission, is there no such alternative, such as the Committee on Culture? What is the reason that the coalition decided, and the Commission also approved, to treat these two problem committees differently? One should stay, but the other definitely needs to be eliminated. For one, there is a permanent Commission that deals broadly with these issues, but for the other there is not. I didn't get it very well. Maybe you'll explain.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U214	Thank you, dear colleague. Such a debate was not held within the framework of this agenda item at the Commission meeting in order to be correct. But in order not to fail to reply, I say that it is perfectly understandable that [problem] committees, whatever they are, will not be created on one date and will not be wound up on one date. In the case of special committees, it has already become the practice that they are set up from their membership, these three special committees. However, as far as the committees of concern and investigation are concerned, I am very clearly convinced and believe that they should be of a temporary nature. Otherwise, they could and should be permanent committees. So, in this sense, I think that the Trouble and Inquiry Committees will certainly have an end sooner or later; they will no longer be formed. In the case of the Estonian language, there are probably still many issues, I do not know why. They have obviously worked very well and hard, and much remains to be done, and therefore it was not considered necessary to liquidate the Commission. But I admit that there have been such debates. There are different opinions, but at least the position of the coalition is very clear: the continuation of this committee is absolutely important and justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U215	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U216	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I understand it's still a bigger plan to cut it all the time. 5.2% and 5.2% of the special committees are not now in percentage, but these plans may also extend to other committees and staff serving us. But the question is that you have not come up with such a crazy plan to close the territory of the Republic of Estonia by 5.2%, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U217	Thank you, my good colleague. This was not a very relevant question and was a bit of an insult to our country. I would say to that, Tarmo, that cutting is not a sin. Sin is living beyond power. It's a sin. The harvest actually comes from looking further than, I don't know, this or next year. Indeed, I think we could have done well for one year without any cuts, but if the cuts still concern the costs of the core business, then it is actually necessary to save this amount in the years to come when we are talking about the years to come after 2022. So in that sense, once again, of course, you will understand that nothing similar happened in this debate. But I would like to stress once again these examples of Pärnu: if we had not cut back there in 2009, we would have been deprived of the euro payments and the city of Pärnu would have been bankrupt a long time ago. There was nothing else left. In certain cases, such overpowering may be justified and understandable. We understand that there is a corona crisis and that, in order for the economy and businesses, people could do better, we really spent a little more than we earned. It's perfectly understandable. But once we're back on track, it makes perfect sense to cut some costs. And I'm going to say again that as a percentage, this isn't much. The question is whether to hit everyone with one tree or someone more and someone less. That's a different subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U218	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U219	Good manager! Good waitress! As a result of the previous answers, I ask you whether you, or your party, consider the disappearance of the Estonian people to be a problem and whether it is a sin to coerce the Estonian people. After all, much cheaper labour could be imported from somewhere else, costs would be lower and 5.2% of the territory would not have to be given away.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U220	Thank you, dear questioner. In fact, Mr Ernits, I would not use the word 'fading' when speaking to the Estonian people or say that this is a problem. I'd say the problem is that we have a low birth rate, that's the problem. But I don't want to take the word "dead" into my mouth or talk about the demise of the Estonian people. I am absolutely convinced and believe that the Estonian people will not perish. But the problem is right. It is right, as I suggested, that the birth rate is very low and indeed today we rely on the really positive balance of migration in terms of population growth. When we look at the ive, we see that it's still negative. Of course, it cannot be compared over the years either, because sometimes the birth rate is higher than the mortality rate and sometimes vice versa. So in this sense, it is certainly a problem and it is not a matter of the slightest, not a cent for distracting this problem from the point of view. I have also said this before that the Population Problem Committee has actually worked through two compositions of the Riigikogu: in the previous Riigikogu, roughly two years and during its composition also about two years. I have also said that this could be sufficient time to give the necessary input or to initiate specific legislative proposals. That could be enough time, four years in total. Clearly, the solution to the problem would be a simple one if [Enough from the fact that] we say that if we maintain the population's problem committee, all the problems in Estonia are solved. Then we would never wind up the Commission. But it's not that simple. I think that the task of the respective Riigikogu commission, this problem committee, is still to provide inputs to the Government of the Republic or to initiate drafts. Specific action is, however, primarily to organise the executive power or, in the case of the legislator, to adopt the corresponding drafts as a law. Therefore, as I said at the very beginning, I am of the opinion and I believe that you too agree that the committees of concern and inquiry are of a temporary nature. The length, how long one or the other lasts, can, of course, vary depending on the problem and the issues that are being dealt with. But once again, they are of a temporary nature.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U221	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U222	Honourable Toomas Kivimägi! Thank you for having the opportunity to ask a substantive question. Then, when we had our first reading, unfortunately Mart Võrguship, who introduced us to this bill, could not or could not answer essentially the questions relating to the demographic situation. Could you specify the demographic situation in Estonia today and what are the greatest challenges to the population crisis that we have to deal with?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U223	Thank you, good Victoria! I think that this should be asked by the chairman of this very committee of concern. I honestly think, without the irony, that they in the committee have gone much deeper. You can also ask a good colleague, Tarmo, who is in this very committee. They are certainly much more accurate with specific numbers. As I suggested above, our biggest problem is the low birth rate, which is the biggest problem, and all the measures taken to improve the birth rate are welcome. That is the central question. You realize that the other end of it, the mortality rate, we can't really influence. We may get a year, two or three more, but it doesn't change the big picture. The sustainability of the Estonian people is still guaranteed by a higher birth rate compared to what we have today. Obviously, that's not enough. It's not enough, it's clear. Our current lives are negative, or people are born less than they die. But once again, we can't influence this other side. What we can influence is the birth rate and the point is to focus on this subject. Indeed, today it is compensated to a very significant extent by a positive balance of migration. There were times when more people went abroad than came back from Estonia, but now the process has turned to the opposite. More people come to Estonia from abroad than they go abroad, and this has compensated for the negative population, which is actually increasing in Estonia today. But we all understand very clearly that such a compensation mechanism will not work forever, because the vast majority of those who return are Estonians who have ever gone there. Hope that, for example, the Swedes will come mass to Estonia, I think there is not enough reason for this. The duration of the Estonian people is guaranteed above all by a higher birth rate and the sharpness should be directed towards it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U224	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U225	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! You referred to living beyond your means and saving. For the sake of the stenogram, please tell me how much this special committee cost the taxpayer. And at this point, please don't take into account who's there, let's say... How much was the additional fee received? That's what I mean. I think that since you just referred to them as such an austerity point and talked about living beyond your means, you can say the exact number.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U226	What I said about living and saving beyond my means, these are principles and principles. Of course, everyone needs to look for savings. As far as I know, the Riigikogu has also received a penalty. If I'm not mistaken, it was EUR 460000 or something. Here, too, there have been many painful ideas and decisions on the table, the possible elimination or tightening of the à la Development Monitoring Centre, whatever. So I think we need to look for those opportunities. The budget for this committee is EUR 100000, as far as I know, when we are talking about a whole year. Of course, today the residue is no longer so large, roughly half of it may be the residue. But let's say for a whole year, when we talk about the savings task of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu next year, which is probably EUR 460000, this amount is also very important. Originally, what we're denying here was a lot of competition for this money, but I don't think it would have been a good tone if that money had gone into use somewhere else. At the moment, I am aware of this attitude, of course, that this decision has not yet been made, because the budget for next year is not yet on the table, but I have realised that the attitude and the clear position is that this money is not being diverted, but that it is going to be part of the plan of cuts. So the cost of this committee is EUR 100000 per year. I don't think it's appropriate to state how much it's been paid. We are all receiving one or the other premium for another agency, so this [note] is not very fair to those people who have run it by the Commission. But once again, the Commission's own budget is EUR 100000.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U227	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U228	Good manager! Good waitress! Let's get a little higher from this muddy country and look at Europe. We are still looking to Brussels, to the European Commission. What is your assessment as Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs? While the government of Kaja Kallas decided to eliminate the position of Minister of Population and the problem committee of the population as unnecessary, the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, the former German Minister for the Family, if I recall correctly, considered it necessary to establish a post as vice-president of demographics in the European Commission. Was that a shortsighted and meaningless decision to you? In this light, how does the current government of Estonia look?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U229	Thank you, Reverend Asker! It is quite rare that you are setting an example for Estonia in the European Union. You usually say we shouldn't measure there. But in this case, you'll find it perfectly appropriate. I consider it important to note that this decision or proposal has not been made by the government of Kaja Kallas. This draft has been initiated by two political groups of the Riigikogu: the Reform Party Group of the Riigikogu and the Central Party of the Riigikogu. Everything doesn't necessarily have to be blamed by Echo Kallas. Indeed, I very sincerely say that the initiative has not come in the slightest from the government, but it is the result of the Riigikogu's own debates. And this draft, as I said, has been presented by the Group of the Reform Party and the Centre Party. I would like to emphasise once again that I sincerely congratulate and congratulate the EKRE on the fact that you had tabled 206 amendments, but you have withdrawn 200 of them. That was very understanding of you, and the agreement was indeed wider. In the context of the previous draft, I congratulate the Fatherland, which also withdrew a number of amendments to the previous draft. And the social democrats who participated in these agreements. So I thought it was very, very generous, and I sincerely commend you. And I would also like to emphasise once again that I think that [if you ask] whether these problems receive more or less attention, this debate will give these problems more attention over and over again. Well, maybe "more times" is an exaggeration, I'm sorry, or I'm gonna hurt the Trouble Committee. But let's just say that because of this decision, they get more attention on permanent committees. So far, there was another Commission that dealt with it, and it actually devalued the activities of the permanent Commission in this area. As I once said as mayor of Pärnu, when there was a problem with police pay in Pärnu, it is not reasonable that we put the city's budget in addition, we pay a little extra. I said that this is not reasonable, it does not show the problem as it really is, and the state is not looking for any additional resources if someone else is paying for it. In this case, there was someone else who was working on the subject. As a result, I am starting to think about this even now, by the way, I have the idea that maybe this is why the Riigikogu website does not include population topics among the tasks and areas of activity of these two permanent committees. It's pure speculation right now, but you understand my reasoning. Since we have a separate committee of problems that is dealing with this, I think that this problem is less dealt with, at least so far, by the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on Culture. Now that this Commission disappears, the full responsibility lies with the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on Culture. So far, it has been divided into three committees. So let's say that one of the reasons originally stated [on the abolition of the problem committee] is indeed to avoid and reduce duplication, because then the responsibility will dissipate. In the case of an emergency bill, you saw that there was a problem when responsibility was collegial when it went to the government. And I also say that if the seven committees were to be responsible for one subject, although the population, indeed, could be a cross-committee issue, then generally this responsibility would be dissipated, and in the end it could be that no one is dealing with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U230	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U231	Thank you, good Thomas, for describing these challenges! My question was not put simply because, whenever there is a very big and acute problem, it is possible to create a problem committee, but there is another way to solve the challenges that are currently on the table. When this committee of problems was formed two years ago, I was wondering if it would still help us get where we want to go. But now I am asking you from such an angle that, in the event that we lose this committee, what gives us the assurance that we will continue to deal with this issue and that we will also come to real solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U232	Thank you, good Victoria! I think that this sharp and serious debate, these same remarks and questions, best provide certainty. I think that neither the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee nor the Chairman of the Committee on Culture has the slightest room to avoid dealing with these issues. Indeed, knowing and knowing these people, I have no doubt at all. After all, the representatives of all the other political groups are actually present in these permanent committees, so you can also raise these problems. Of course, there is no record or letter of this. That is the word and the faith, as is the case with all the other issues that are dealt with by the permanent committees. There is no separate record of this either. So I will say once again that it would be extremely wrong if, after this decision has been approved, the message went out that population issues were not important. They are extremely important, not a cent, not an ounce less important than they have been so far. That's not a question at all. Of course, I'm not denying that I'm a little bit like Margaret Thatcher, who was called Milk Snatcher, I don't know, took away school milk somewhere. I'm kind of like, if you need to cut somewhere, call me, I'll come help. I am convinced that living beyond the reach of the city of Pärnu is today a total, massive overpower, far more than "at national level as a whole" is unsustainable, and if there is a chance of saving costs, this should be done. As I said before, the Estonian Language Commission was once under discussion, but, as you know, coalitions are an agreement between two, three or more parties, and often one party does not get everything it wants.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U233	No further questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations, there's a request. Please, Tarmo Kruusimäe!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U234	Thank you, good vice chairman. Is it really the case that any vigilante can speak for himself?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U235	Sure, sure, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U236	Thanks! This situation is like in "Nukitsa Man": there was nothing before, and now it is, but there isn't enough at all. The Chancellery of the Riigikogu should raise EUR 400000. And where's the money? How many of us went on foreign missions last year? Did someone come? That's supposed to be the money left. We've all been working through the internship on a global network. I understand that these times will not come back, because now there is still a need to cut. The second thing is how and who did the work in the committee. And I'm just asking you, how much was that paycheck? The Republic of Estonia has the right to be paid for the work done. We have been deceived: EUR 100000 has gone somewhere! 100 a year! But it's actually a little bit of candy money. I have to say that, in the case of these two previous committees, the problem is that perhaps the bench of the Reform Party is short. In the previous place[, in the Estonian Trouble Committee], one of the ambassadors is now going to replace two of them, but Signe Riisalo, member of the Trouble Committee on the Population Crisis, went to work at the Ministry of Social Affairs and, see, there is no person in the Reform Party who has a problem on this subject. I know that in politics personal examples must always be given. I remember, it was maybe four or five years ago when I spoke to one of the leading people in the Reform Party. He said we had such a plan to cancel the housing allowance. I asked why, and he said that most of them had a bank loan paid. Is it not [even in the case of the abolition of the Committee on Population Problems] that the majority of parliamentarians already have children, and therefore the problem is solved? But real life goes outside this house, out there. We cannot only view it from this point of view that, since my population plan has been met, this issue should be irrelevant. I'll give you a funny example, or you'll say I might be unfair. In the selection of the 2005 LAs, the second sentence of the Central Party electoral promise No 6 was: "For every woman a sober man! " Really! Who reads and who does not read, it was in the elections at the time, such was Tallinn. As a result, a sobering house was built four years later. Probably solves the problem. Since Hanno Pevkur came to the council a little later, at the time we had two sober men on the council: me and Märt Sults. We were the commissioners. I asked where our Viagra is, where our spas are to move the city's priority, because power was formed alone, and the coalition agreement was a sober man for every woman. Now we realise that the problems in themselves are sort of solved. And those people who think that the [population's Trouble Committee] was not found to replace Signe Riisalo with a new person, it's completely wrong. And because it is wrong, the easiest thing to do is simply wind up the Commission because there is no Commission, no problem. I would have expected some better schematics, of course, but I can see that the biggest scheme makers are just like the kids on the smartphone: Mm-hmm. But they're so similar to, uh, uh-huh, that doesn't count at the first minute what he's there. You could try harder to be credible, to be convincing. Perhaps the argument that we are now saving money from the Chancellery of the Riigikogu was not an obvious exaggeration, but reflected a very strong deficit of truth. Of course, the easiest thing to do is push the problem out of the way and say it like a shepherd boy, as I always said in the Tallinn City Council: "I can't take responsibility because I'm not a part of it. " I have a hundred and mushrooms with this committee. But if he gets eliminated in this way, based on these arguments, I don't know what's next. But in the meantime, let's expand our imagination and assume that all the roads are open. I do not support this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U237	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U238	President-in-Office of the Council. Good fellows! At the beginning of my speech, I say that the Social Democrats do not support the cessation of the committee's work on the draft decision of the Riigikogu 338, which is the problem committee for resolving the population crisis, because we believe that this is the wrong decision. Now, a little longer. The problem committee on the population crisis was formed in the Riigikogu in 2017. It's been run by Siret Eagle, Jaak White, Peeter Ernits. Each one of them has done this work according to his best knowledge and skills. Today's second reading draft wishes to put an end to this problem committee. This has been decided by today's coalition, and it is likely that today the coalition members will vote for it. What's to replace? Who will take on these important issues with responsibility? At the beginning of May, a population scientist and medical doctor named Jaak Uibu approached the Prime Minister with a proposal to set up a population office for the Prime Minister. I do not know if the Prime Minister has considered the proposal and has responded to Mr Jaak Uibu. However, I am and the Social Democrats of the Riigikogu consider that population policy is not an independent phenomenon other than policies in other areas, but it passes through them and partly overlaps with them. It's not the responsibility of one minister or ministry. That is why we are in favour of setting up a population office with the Prime Minister, which would coordinate and be responsible for the demise of the population in a cross-ministerial way, working together with the Chancellors of Ministries and Deputy Chancellors, top specialists in the fields and local authorities. It is precisely responsibility that needs to be specified for the tasks and responsibilities of ministries and local authorities in the exercise of population policy. Individual measures do not produce results because there is a wholesale dependency on the population issue. In order to increase the birth rate, material support is not enough. Population processes depend on education, living environment, mental, social, physical, psychic and much more. The barriers to birth rates must therefore be reduced and birth rates must be created. In addition to the forward-looking and planned work, we also consider it very important to pay attention to the health, education and living environment of today's families and growing children. People's health and birth rates are inseparable. It is possible to change the factors of birth rate, health, life and relationships. Population scientist Kalev Katus has said that the development of society must be addressed in a population-centred way. Estonia is in a population crisis, meaning the demographic state of the population, characterised by a lack of internal recovery potential and an ageing population. However, I would like to conclude more positively with the words of President Lennart Meri, which have not lost their topicality today. I quote: "The current state of the Estonian people is critical, but not irreversible, provided that the government gives priority to this issue. " Today we do not have this confidence in the government, and that is why I return to the beginning of the speech: the Social Democrats do not support this draft decision and vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U239	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U240	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good Toomas Stone Mountain, I can't see you! Otherwise, you made sense, but at one point I was fanged when you said we shouldn't blame Kaja Kallas and his government for losing this committee. Good Thomas, maybe you don't know how this happened. Yeah, that's the decision of two government departments. But how did it happen? I'll tell you. I was told about this by the Chairman of the Centre Party, the current Chairman of the Riigikogu. Two women, at the time the pagan ambassadors, met one named Kaja Kallas and the other named Mailis Reps on these anxious January days, and the conversation was this: sausage for sausage. Special committees, what do you take? What do I take? Mailis Reps said: "I take Estonian. ""Okay, you can. " And the Estonian Language Commission survived. Now Mailis looked at Kaja: "What are you taking? " And Kaja said: " I don't want anything. " And so it happened. Then there was formalisation. Colleagues, that's the way it was. Thomas, read this protocol or ask Echo how it really was. The leader of the Reform Party, the current Prime Minister, did not feel warm or cold about the problems of the Estonian population, demographic stunting. And by the way, he wasn't original at all. To remind you, I checked that in 2009, when the Prime Minister was Andrus Ansip, a good mayor of the Reform Party, Tartu, he lost his position as Minister of Population: "No need. "2016 when the Prime Minister was Taavi Rõivas of the Reform Party: "There is no population crisis. " And now for the third time, just the Prime Minister's name has changed. Kaja Kallas repeated an earlier step by Andrus Ansip, but he did so to an even greater extent, losing both the position of Minister of Population and the Committee on Problems. In order not to stay so-called dry and empty, I speak much more vitally. In fact, Kaja Kallas killed the child of his coalition mate Jüri Ratas. I repeat: this committee of problems, you can say completely plainly, is Jüri Ratas' child. As soon as Jüri Ratas's first government was appointed, he set up a population problem committee. My good colleague Kersti Sarapuu, whom I do not see here today, unfortunately, said when this Commission was set up in 2017: "The new government coalition considers it its most important task to take action to increase population numbers. " Kersti Sarapuu was here on February 14, 2017. I don't know where he is right now. But the background was that our many good colleagues, Rein Ratas, Jüri's father, called an Estonian population support group in 2015. A few years later, when his son came to power, Jüri took such a step that he created this commission. And now, on the anxious days of January, when two parties found each other again, two powerful women got together, one said that he would take the sausage, and the other said that he didn't want the sausage. And at the same time, whoever didn't want the sausage actually killed his good coalition partner's child, the same commission. It's kind of simple. To not talk too long, you know, there's no empty place, people are breeding and in some places they breed quite well...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U241	Do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U242	Yeah! If I could have a few more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U243	Three or less?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U244	Yeah, three, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U245	Please, three!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U246	The workforce comes from everywhere, it's our business whether we relax or not to relax the conditions in which they come here. It seems to me that if the current coalition continues under the leadership of the Reform Party, we will begin to relax these conditions. Why bang some Estonian people who don't want to breed if we can get the workforce much cheaper from somewhere else? But in my opinion, and in our view, this is not the right way. Toomas Kivimägi said that I usually don't praise Europe, but that's not quite true. But indeed, in view of Europe, the current President of the European Commission considered it necessary to establish a position as vice-president of the demographics, but at the same time, our wise government eliminated both the minister and the problem committee and put a knife in the back or heart of its coalition partner, the head of the Centre Party. He's a polite man, and he hasn't come here right now, he's quiet. So that's what this is about with the Commission. Of course, the Commission itself does not make children, although the Members of the Commission may do so. But it is up to us to create the conditions for children to be made, and the Estonians who are scattered in the world would come here instead of going away. That's our mission. I will go so far as to say that I think it should be a permanent committee, because the problem is serious. In 2005, Taagepera wrote his character article "Demographic toilet" and in 2016 or 2015 he wrote that we were still on our way to nothing. We're still on our way. So I think the government coalition should set up a permanent committee. Whoever runs it, God forbid, Toomas Kivimägi, capable man. It is not a question of guidance. This topic is vital for the people of Estonia. As far as Kaja Kallas is concerned, good Kaja, I wouldn't recommend you come to the next song party to get on with your folk clothes. The Estonian people, it seems to me, do not matter to you. I know that many members of the Reform Party may not dare to say this to you, even though they could say it calmly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U247	I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu to the Luck Hill. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U248	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Listening to these speeches here, maybe I'd take this sincere faith and emotion down a little bit and remind you of an important nuance. Children are born out of parents'feelings and desire to have children. No committee can order or any assigned quota to say how much and when anyone should have children. They say it takes a whole village to raise children. And so here. It is naive to think that one Commission will remove all the obstacles that the country and families have to face when they have children and when they are raised. This requires cooperation, synergies between all committees to create better opportunities for the birth, living and development of children. It is good ideas, focus on solutions and cooperation that brings results. And good initiatives in Estonian history are not already lacking, for example, our parental benefit is one of the most generous benefits for families with children in Europe. I mean, if there was a chance to give us a family policy, Oscar, for example, then our parental benefit would certainly win. Support for children's rich families as well as multiple support from triples onwards. These are opportunities on the part of the state, which have had a positive impact on the birth rate and helped families with children. These things have been done, however, in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Committee on Social Affairs, not in the Committee on Population Crisis Resolution. Ladies and gentlemen, We face great challenges. It is the task of the state to provide opportunity and support, not a committee worth EUR 100000, which says how women should start giving birth more quickly. We need to find better and more effective solutions that take into account each family, both large and small, both the traditional family and the single parent and the honeycomb family. From my own experience, I can say that one of the challenges is better and well thought-out public services for families with children, in order to make it easier and more convenient for parents to reconcile family and professional life. We need to give more support to mothers in the coming years, because they are the ones who have been hit the most in the corona crisis. We women need to be sure that we can provide children with attention and care. It is important to know that when we return to work, the children are kept and the home is warm. It is equally important to create simpler solutions for families with special needs, so that they can get the services and assistance they need comfortably and quickly, help parents who can no longer return to work because they need to devote their full attention and time to a child who needs special care. How can we keep these parents? How do you offer them that time? How can we support those silent children who have withdrawn and are concerned about their parents because their parents are no longer in touch with each other after the breakup? What are we doing to prevent children from suffering because of family relationships that have gone bad? Or spending children's leisure time and developing gifts, creating a culture pack and supporting an education of interest, so that the support provided can reach the child directly, how can it be done in the best way? And how can you help those children who live in absolute poverty? What do we do for them? These are the things that we should argue about and find the best solutions for. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U249	How much do you want?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U250	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U251	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U252	The pace of implementation of these things is hampered, not by the elimination of the problem committee on the resolution of the population crisis, but by the global corona apandemia that has hit our country, and, unfortunately, by the exhilarating decisions of the previous government, which require us to tighten our belts. I have said this before and I am not tired of repeating that our families are as strong as the weakest of our families. That's why I'm asking you to look, find and see solutions, because our thoughts are the way to what we do. If we remember that every child is valuable, no matter how many of its families are, and if we have a caring and friendly environment, where all children are welcome and where their parents are supported, more children will be born in Estonia, and the Estonian nation, language and culture will be preserved through the ages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U253	Thank you. I now request the Riigikogu Chair Urmas Reinsalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U254	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U255	Yes, please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U256	A respectable representative of the people! This is the most embarrassing decision this Parliament is going to make here. It's a miracle if the walls of this temple don't collapse after the vote. We are going to abolish the Committee on the Population Crisis, whose approach is based on the fact that Estonia is a nation state, that Estonians want to stay in the majority of the country and that we have the right to remain a nation, a nation of the country. This is Parliament's most important task. The question that this committee has had to deal with is the most important issue of the Estonian state. The state is a means, the state is a means to keep the Estonian people going. The new coalition took two fundamental decisions when it took office: firstly, the abolition of the position of Minister of Population and, secondly, the abolition of the Committee on the Population Crisis in Parliament. This is not about EUR 100000. The question is not that these things are being dealt with elsewhere. We all know that both of these arguments are completely wrong. It is precisely to address population problems that these institutions have been created. There are very many issues that fall between the various institutions, between the various standing committees in Parliament, but it is the task of the Committee on the Population Crisis to give the right direction and set the right goal. It may be discussed whether this Commission has been effective and whether its output could be more practical. However, those who have read the annual summaries of this Commission may say that with demographers, our population scientists, the objectives have been correctly stated. And now the new coalition says that this is not a value in itself, the enduring of the nation state, and it is precisely about to go on the signs and symbols. In the same way that you go against the Defence Forces orchestra, you do not really care about the principles on which the Estonian nation state is based. I did an analysis of the new coalition agreement, and I could not find the words "Estonian people" or "Estonian nation state." There were few references. This means, in reality, that the coalition agreement has been cleared of the national state as a category and the imperative, and that this clean-up will also be passed on to the fact that the Estonian state will be cleansed of the realisation of the national government's objectives, just as the position of Minister of Population has been removed from the government, just as the Committee on Population Crisis is set up in Parliament to eliminate the population crisis. Not a second before this decision was consulted with population scientists, our demographers. This was not considered important, even though I proposed several times in Parliament's Committee on Constitutional Affairs to call on our population scientists. The warning signal of population scientists was precisely the reason why this commission was formed during the previous coalition. This commission has emerged from the great concern that the Estonian people have to endure, borne by our scientists and experts, whose view is aimed at the future of the Estonian people. We are told that this Commission, which has been set up by population scientists with its proposals, will be abolished because of the need to cut EUR 100000. This is the price of the Estonian people's survival for the new coalition. EUR 100000! Are we kidding in this Chamber? But what are we kidding? With the constitution of your country, with your people, with the future of your people. Any person in this Chamber who has taken an oath to serve his people and the Constitution as a representative of the people will today vote against this proposal because it is a shot from behind at the future of our people. We wouldn't have expected that from the new coalition. And all of this is veiled with EUR 100000 rhetoric. The new coalition, you want to build tens of millions of euros next year into the office of the largest European log house in the Ministry of the Environment. Leave no room on this house, and Parliament will be able to deal with the population crisis further. Where have we gotten to? Savings at the expense of the future of the Estonian people. Demographic processes are very long processes. We know that they are based on human generations. Happiness rightly spoke about the good and positive things that have been done in practice. But today we also know that there is nothing worthy of irony and there is no doubt [it is important] that the birth rate of Estonia is positive and that the Estonians come back to Estonia so that the life expectancy of the Estonian people is longer and more years of healthy life. These are all the objectives set out in the work carried out by the Committee on the Population Crisis for Parliament, the State and the ministries. But with one move, with one vote, we will crush this policy and its will. Believe me, it's a wound and a bad signal we're giving. I would like to hope that Members will have the courage to vote against this proposal. It is judicious, it is not in the interests of the Estonian state and the people, and it is a cowardly proposal. Because you want to realise your ideology from a corner, and this ideology is such that nationhood as a phenomenon, as a category of goal, does not fit into this ideology. So be brave and tell me your real reason. Thank you. The Fatherland will vote against this proposal! [[Let's hear it in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U257	Thank you. So, any more calls? Since I don't see any more calls, I'm closing the negotiations. Amendments to draft decision 338 have also been received. Let's start reviewing them. Amendment 1 has been tabled by Mr Ernits. The position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is to disregard this. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U258	On behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I ask that it be put to the vote and supported, because both this and all the other amendments are very good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U259	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. Can we go to the vote? Thank you. I shall put to the vote Amendment 1, tabled by Mr Ernits. The position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is to disregard this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U260	With the result 37 in favour and 50 against, the amendment was not supported. Amendment 2 has also been tabled by Mr Ernits. The position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is to disregard this. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U261	I ask for this proposal to be put to the vote, because both this and the rest of the proposals are reflected in the concern about the preservation of the Estonian people, and I ask you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U262	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. Can we go to the vote? Thank you. I shall put to the vote Amendment 2, tabled by Mr Ernits. The position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is to disregard this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U263	With the result 37 in favour and 50 against, the amendment was not supported. Amendment 3 has also been tabled by Mr Ernits; the position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is to disregard this. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U264	Please put this amendment to the vote, because the Estonian Constitution states that the Estonian state must ensure the preservation of Estonian nation, language and culture throughout the ages.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U265	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. Can we go to the vote? Thank you! I shall put to the vote Amendment 3 tabled by Mr Ernits, the position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is to disregard this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U266	With the result of 37 votes in favour and 51 against, the amendment was not supported. Amendment 4 has again been tabled by Mr Ernits; the position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is to disregard this. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U267	Thank you. I would ask that this amendment be put to the vote and that everyone who supports the preservation of the Estonian people should also support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U268	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. Can we go to the vote? Thank you! I shall put to the vote Amendment 4 tabled by Mr Ernits, the position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is to disregard this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U269	With the result of 28 votes in favour and 51 against, the amendment was not supported. Amendment 5 has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U270	Please put this amendment to the vote as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U271	Just like that, no reason? All right, let's start preparing the vote. Can we go to the vote? Thank you. I shall put to the vote Amendment 5 tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs, after serious discussions, was able to take full account of this position. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U272	With the result of 65 votes against and 10 abstentions 1 the proposal was supported. Amendment 6 has been tabled by Mr Ernits. The position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is to disregard this. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U273	Please vote on this amendment because it stands for the social protection of the Estonian people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U274	Let's start preparing the vote. Can we go to the vote? Thank you. I shall put to the vote Amendment 6, tabled by Mr Ernits. The position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is to disregard this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U275	With the result of 33 and against 51, the proposal was not supported. Amendment 7 has been tabled by Mr Ernits, the position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is to disregard this. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U276	Thank you, good Chairman. I would also ask that this amendment be put to the vote, because it is important. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U277	Thank you. Let us begin with the preparation of this important amendment. Can we go to the vote? Thank you! I shall put to the vote Amendment 7, tabled by Mr Ernits. The position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is to disregard this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U278	The amendment was not supported by the result of 36, against 51, and the abstentions were not supported. Good fellows, thank you. We have examined the amendments. The commission has also proposed a final vote on the draft decision 338, so we will start preparing the final vote. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U279	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I ask for a ten-minute break on behalf of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, so that our ladies and gentlemen can think about and support the principle of the preservation of the Estonian nation as laid down in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U280	Thank you. Break 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U281	Good fellows! The requested break of the Estonian Conservative People's Party has ended. We are on the fourth item on the agenda and on the run-up to the final vote on the draft decision 338. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I shall put to the final vote a draft decision of 338. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U282	With the result of 48 and 37 against, the draft resolution of the Riigikogu on the amendment of the decision of the Riigikogu on "Constitution of a Problem Committee on the Resolution of a People's Crisis" submitted by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Estonian Centre Party has been adopted as 338 decisions. The fourth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U283	We will move on to the fifth item: Second reading of the draft Act amending the Information Society Service Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 359. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu by Mikhail Stalnukhin, member of the Economic Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U284	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Information Society Service Act was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 22 March. A first reading took place on 21 April and no amendments were made by 5 May, when amendments were to be received. The Commission sent letters on whether it wanted to discuss something in connection with this draft law or to amend something in its text to seven related organisations. Six of them didn't answer at all. The response of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry was that they did not see any problem and they were completely satisfied with this text. On 17 May, a meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs was held at which it was decided to conduct the second reading on 2 June and, if the second reading is successfully completed, to put the draft to a final vote on 9 June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U285	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. We should now go to the examination of the amendments, but our problem is that they have not been received, so they cannot be tackled. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of Bill 359. The second reading is closed and the fifth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U286	We move on to the sixth item, this is the first reading of the draft Act 385 on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Mauritius on the prevention of double taxation and on the prevention of tax evasion and fraud and related protocol. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimitud to serve as a rapporteur for the Riigikogu's speech chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U287	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has submitted to the Riigikogu a double taxation convention between Estonia and Mauritius for ratification. As everyone knows, Estonia is still concluding double taxation agreements to ensure the stability of the tax environment both for those who invest in Estonia and for Estonian entrepreneurs who extend their activities to foreign markets. The aim of tax treaties is to eliminate double international taxation, which may arise in combination with the laws of two countries. The agreement divides tax rights between the parties to the agreement, avoids discriminatory taxation and, of course, prevents tax evasion. The agreement does not provide additional tax opportunities for the parties but limits the existing tax rights established by national law. This tax agreement applies to persons who are residents of either Estonia or Mauritius. The agreement before you was signed, including on 19 February in Brussels, and is based on the OECD Standard Agreement. If you have any questions about this agreement, I would be happy to answer, but I would ask you for your support in ratifying it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U288	Minister, it seems that there are no questions. Thank you. Now I ask Dmitri Dmitriyev, member of the Monetary Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U289	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance discussed the draft, including on 18 May. The Minister of Finance, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, also made a presentation at the Commission, presenting the objectives and content of the draft. He noted that Mauritius is only 127th export partner for Estonia. And, of course, when the Treaty is ratified, there is the expectation that our relations will improve and become more active in economic terms. As there were no substantive questions raised by the members of the committee on this agreement, the Commission made the following consensual decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by Wednesday, 2 June and to close the first reading and to set ten working days, i.e. Wednesday, 16 June at 5.15 p.m. for amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U290	Good waitress, thank you very much. Looks like there's no questions for you either. Thank you very much. The political groups now have the opportunity to open negotiations. Please, any requests? There are no requests, so I will not open negotiations. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the first reading of draft 385 and set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 16 June. The first reading is closed and the sixth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U291	We will move on to the seventh item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Aliens Act, the Law on Higher Education and the Law on Educational Grants and Student Loan, initiated by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. I am very pleased to ask a member of the Riigikogu Jaak Valge to present the speech chair here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U292	Ladies and gentlemen, I am also very happy to present here and present this bill. I am not going to rewrite this bill to you, but rather to talk about the situation that led to the bill. Let me start with the basics first. You see, an immigration policy based on society's needs is one of the country's most important functions. As we know, immigration is beneficial for the state if its volume is reasonable and migratory people who quickly find their place in the new society. Otherwise, this process will be harmful to society, in fact, harmful to society and harmful to immigrants themselves, at least in the long term. Our Estonia's migration story is, let's say, the dynamics of volumes developed in a similar way to that of other Europe, perhaps some ups and downs have been sharper. One exception, with a very large exception, has been the period of occupation when we ourselves were not able to regulate immigration. The proportion of people of foreign origin is still the highest in Europe due to the large immigration in the period of occupation. We have an outside birth rate of around 200,000. And given the second generation's external population, which it would be reasonable to do when it comes to integration, we know that this figure is higher than the highest in Europe, only in Luxembourg. This means that we are dealing with one of the most difficult, difficult problems of European integration. This should lead us to conduct an extraordinarily cautious immigration policy. And indeed, for the time being, that was the case. But since 2015, net migration has been so high that the share of Estonians in Estonia has started to decline again. It's true, very slowly. However, a new phenomenon has emerged since 2018: immigration from third countries, i.e. from non-EU countries, has increased. In our case, this means countries in the eastern Slavic cultural space, but on the other hand, countries are very different, mainly from Asia and Africa. The current 11000 Ukrainian citizens' community in Estonia is now growing very rapidly. In 2020, or last year, we knew we had corona restrictions, but there were still just over 16,000 immigrants, just over 12,000 emigrants. These include short-term workers not included. And now I recall that, in restoring independence, we set the immigration limit at 0.1% of the permanent population in one year. Let's do a small calculation: in 2020, last year, despite the corona restrictions, 12 times more people migrated than we thought when we created our country. Look at how, in a few decades, our attitudes have changed radically if you take that number! Politics should, like, reflect attitudes. I'm saying it doesn't. In 2019, i.e. the last normal year, the main reasons for obtaining a residence permit in Estonia were coming to work, going to study and family migration. After all, family migration makes sense because family members come to live in Estonia, who come here to study and work. In general, we should take into account that there are two family members coming to work or study for each third person. This is the case with the current statistics, and this figure will definitely be higher later. It's projected to be bigger. The number of family members accompanying foreign students is not yet very high, but it has almost doubled every year. There is no need to be a prophet at all, to say that it will probably double if we do not change the circumstances. Now, in 2017, the possibilities for family members to settle in Estonia were significantly expanded. And there was another negative fact last year. While some time ago we rejoiced that the return of Estonian citizens to Estonia was larger than the emigration from Estonia, last year the return of Estonian citizens was less than 1000. Unfortunately, our migration data does not shine with precision, and it is too early to draw comprehensive conclusions, but in any case it is clearly an alarming very negative trend. And all in all, it's clear that we need to look for solutions. Now let's look at learning mobility first. In this normal year, 2019, 1,300 persons received a primary residence permit in Estonia, including Nigerian, Russian, Ukrainian, Bangladeshi, India, Azerbaijani and Pakistani citizens. I would also stress that, without taking into account, these are foreign students from the European Union and EFTA countries. Of all these foreign students, 5% or slightly less than 5% studied in Estonian, but about half of them worked during their studies. There are no or at least no data on employment for third-country students. However, they are expected to have a sharply higher share of work. All right, let's keep looking. Doctoral studies are free of charge for foreign students. 66% of students from third countries paid tuition fees in the first and second stage, while others did not. This is 89% for students from the European Union and EFTA countries. Students from third countries paid much less. It should be borne in mind that, at least in public universities, tuition costs are not actually covered. Thus, Estonian taxpayers are also paid by foreign students who actually pay tuition fees to the university. In addition, about a third of foreign students are also paid needs-based learning support by the Estonian taxpayer, and almost all need-based learners come from so-called third countries. Let us admit that it is not easy to control whether or not they need to receive needs-based education support. In other words, it cannot be controlled. After graduation, only part of foreign students remain permanent residents in Estonia. Jaak Aaviksoo has noted that the reason for many foreign students to come to Estonia is the desire to move elsewhere in the European Union. We cannot distinguish between so-called third-country students and I do not have any more recent data. However, considering all foreign students and full-time employees in Estonia, only 26% of the graduates in 2016 remained in Estonia on average. The higher share was for engineering, ICT and manufacturing and processing. I admit that it could be assumed that this proportion has increased in recent years and that the result here will certainly be two-sided estimates of more if we also take account of the so-called "job breaks" or "one-off jobs." But anyway, this means that preparing one foreign student for the Estonian labour market at Estonian universities costs our taxpayer much more than preparing an Estonian student. Further: The average working income in Estonia of foreigners graduating from higher education is lower for local graduates, for example, it is 18% lower for graduates of master's studies. There's nothing weird about that. If, during the course of the studio, the official language has not been learned, it must be supplemented by an army of small and medium-paid workers. Of course, in the case of doctoral graduates who have acquired specific advanced skills, the pay gap is much lower. In summary, it must be concluded that the fact that foreign students are currently studying in English is not in the interests of the Estonian state or of a large part of foreign students themselves, as much of the preparation required for Estonia is simply not available. That's all I'm going to focus on. But in general terms, it could be said that the reception needs to focus more on certain specialties, such as technology and ICT, and, of course, to dramatically increase learning in Estonian and to exclude coming to Estonia solely for study grants, as a stepping-stone for going to more prosperous countries. Then let's look at the people who come to Estonia for work. More than 2200 residence permits were issued in 2019, more than half of them to Ukrainian citizens, followed by Russia, Belarus and India. In 2017, when the Minister of the Interior was the Socialist Andres Anvelt, the conditions for coming to work in Estonia were relaxed. The most important was the reduction of the wage bill from 1.24 on average to 1.0 on average wages, also for short-term workers. The consequence was that Estonia became attractive to low- and medium-skilled workers. However, a more important change was the rapid increase in the number of short-term employees. In 2019, registration of short-term workers had increased more than four times since two years ago: more than 25000 of the registered workers accounted for only 4% of those who could be regarded as highly qualified workers on 1 June 2020. Three quarters of short-term workers come from Ukraine, the rest from Belarus, Russia, Moldova and Uzbekistan, and I read again in order of importance. Short-term work in itself is a stepping stone to becoming a permanent resident in Estonia. Along with the increase in the number of short-term workers from Ukraine, employment and family migration in Ukraine have also increased. The employment or permanent residence of low- and medium-skilled workers in Estonia suppresses our wage levels and hinders innovation in the economy. The address made on 5 May this year by the Confederation of Trade Unions requires that employers should primarily use the local labour force of Estonia in order to ensure the competitiveness and sustainability of the Estonian economy. This is the appeal to the Union of Trade Unions. I am asking here where are the Social Democrats who should stand up for our workers. Indeed, as of 1 May 2021, we have nearly 15000 valid registrations of short-term workers, but at the same time, according to the unemployment fund, we have 54000 unemployed and 5800 vacancies. It tends not to be the right thing to say that we have a shortage of labour in simple-work areas, because more than half of the jobseekers are well-paid or middle-paid, the same people who would claim to be in positions that have started to be filled by foreign workers. And now I ask the rhetorical question: is it strange in this situation that the return migration to Estonia has slowed down, is it going to leave again? I recall that our labour productivity is only 74% of the European Union average. If we continue to bring in cheap labour that suppresses our wages, our economy will focus on those sectors with cheap labour. This is slowing down innovation. Indeed, I do not want to overdramatise, but I dare say that in this case only dreams can be seen from an increase in productivity in our work to 110% of the European average, as stated in the Estonian 2035 strategy. So far, our immigrant population is mainly from countries that are culturally close to us, and compared to Finland and Sweden, for example, these people are quite well adapted to working life here. Once again, however, we ask whether immigration from eastern Slavic and African and Asian countries will help us to avoid social problems linked to the ageing of the population. Here's what I'm gonna say. The birth rate of the population of foreign origin from the Eastern Slavic Cultural Space follows the country of origin level and is much smaller than that of Estonians. Thus, the continuation of immigration of people from the Eastern Slavic Cultural Space means an acceleration of population ageing, not a slowdown. That means even bigger problems for our children. The rapidly growing immigration of people from Asian and African countries is likely to slow down population ageing, but in the future this could mean the same situation as in Finland and Sweden today. This means a very high rate of non-participation of one part of the population in the employment process, which in turn points to an increase in social problems. The restrictions provided for in this draft would apply only to so-called third-country nationals. They would not extend to citizens of the Member States of the European Union and the European Economic Area, the Swiss Confederation and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, as well as to doctoral students and foreign students who study in Estonian. Exceptions to labour migration would also remain. Raising wage levels is necessary for us to limit the introduction of low-cost labour into Estonia and the suppression of wage levels. The regulation of the entry of foreign students into Estonia is still necessary to ensure that we do not have other goals under the study sign. Now, according to a survey of the values of the Institute of Social Studies, only 23% of Estonian citizens and persons from other cultural spaces want large-scale immigration from the same cultural space. What is currently happening in Estonia is, in fact, large-scale immigration, which will make our well-being worse in the future or in the near future. The draft legislation on immigration prepared by the previous government had reached Parliament, but the government in power removed them from the procedure. But that doesn't mean the need for them is gone. And I'd say it's a keen need. Now I'm gonna finish. Ladies and gentlemen, if this bill needs to be amended, it must be discussed. But I'm sure you will understand that a change in immigration policy is absolutely necessary. I ask you to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U293	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions too. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U294	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good waitress! A similar bill was, of course, planned for the previous government coalition. In fact, the previous government coalition had this even more in mind. We are talking specifically about higher education, but what more needs to be changed in our immigration policy so that we can do something with this 0.1% target?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U295	We need to change a number of things. First of all, we should focus on the admission of foreign students to Estonia and Estonian higher education institutions. Secondly, we should also accept those who come to work in Estonia more carefully and focus primarily on top specialists and other persons with higher levels of pay. And once we make these things happen, this extensive family migration will in itself go within the right framework.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U296	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U297	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, I would like to ask the ethical point of view that our universities are constantly underfunded. Our faculty's salaries are low. For example, the Faculty of Law says that this is the salary they receive for a reference from a law firm. We're struggling with the funding of our universities, but at the same time we have African students and Asian students, we pay them a scholarship. There's a big, big ethical gap here. We can't do that at the expense of our people, underfunded university, at the expense of national university faculty, at the expense of docents, at the expense of national science. It shouldn't go on like this. If Cameroon wants to pay its people, we don't have to pay the scholarship.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U298	Yes, thank you! I guess that's the case. It's hard for me to argue with that. Let's say that one side of the question is that we may not be right to see the decisions of universities themselves as a reason for this situation. Universities are run by rational people who are guided by state policies and by the model of university funding. If the state funding model favours learning in English in the university and favours the admission of foreign students, most of whom will later leave Estonia, then universities will accept them in order to survive. The question is that we should change the model of funding universities, of course, together with a change in the entire immigration policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U299	Paul Woodland.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U300	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! These figures, which are now listed and relate to the number of migrant workers received here, were, above all, about short-term work permits, the number of which has increased indeterminately, are, of course, appalling. We are indeed talking about tens of thousands of temporary work permits. But I'm asking now about education and training, about higher education. For me, the question was the fact that when we met with the rectors of universities, it was clearly understandable and perceived that the university faculty were interested in the arrival of foreign students. This is particularly because universities are sitting on the end of the money market that comes with foreign students. Is there any way by means of this bill that we can reduce this lucid desire?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U301	The answer is yes. This should be the first step. Next steps... If, now, with this draft, we take the motivation of third-country students to come here only in order to receive needs-based education support and free education and get the opportunity to bring their family members quickly to move on to the European Union, then we will eliminate this immigration channel. The rectors of the universities were obviously interested in this situation or in foreign students. At least one of the reasons why they were interested was that they would benefit from more foreign students training in their school as the current financing model continues. And this is actually an absurd situation that we have created with this particular financing model, with which we make it useful to universities, but harmful to the taxpayer. This really must not continue. I recall that, even if the tuition fee is paid, this tuition fee does not actually cover the amount that the taxpayer would otherwise pay to train a student.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U302	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U303	Thank you. I think it is a very important point for universities to benefit from foreign students, foreign foreign students, but our taxpayer or the state will pay for it. Most of this money is some sort of different international programmes, but it's not that much money. But I have a question. There are several kinds of foreign students. We were talking about the success of integration before. Finn is also an external student and German and Italian are foreign students. However, we have a large number of foreign students coming from so-called third countries. The prerequisite for any integration is that there is as close a cultural background as possible. Why, then, do we have these foreign students coming from Bangladesh and other such places?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U304	Thank you for your question. There are quite a few of them coming from the countries of the European Union. I can't tell that proportion by heart right now. But there's a lot coming from Finland. And unlike those coming from third countries, as I mentioned earlier, most of those coming from European Union and EFTA countries still pay tuition fees. And at the same time, they don't get need-based education support. So training foreign students coming from countries of the European Union is more useful to the Estonian taxpayer, or it would be better said, less harmful than training third-country nationals. It is, of course, all very complicated, something with such a broad generalisation is difficult to say. It is clear that training doctoral students, for example, let us say, in most disciplines, is beneficial to the Estonian state. Training students in many disciplines is also useful. But at the same time, let's say, more than half the disciplines of non-discipline in English are not useful. Why are they coming? I shall try to return to this question. The answer would be that neither a special study has been carried out, but we can probably assume this motivation with some kind of logic. If we still receive needs-based education support, tuition fees are not required and family members can easily be picked up, it is likely to be high enough in the ranking of motivating factors.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U305	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U306	Good waitress! It has always been said that IT people cannot come, that restrictions will be placed, that the Estonian economy will not develop. This kind of IT-sector chatter goes through all the time. Do you really think that if we adjusted these salary requirements here, the top specialists wouldn't come? Can you believe what they're always blowing into our teeth?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U307	The top specialists are among the exceptions that could come anyway. They certainly wouldn't miss it if we adjusted these salary claims. On the contrary, if we raise the wage bill, the proportion of top specialists coming will increase quite clearly. So there's no way this bill tends to attack the immigration of top specialists.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U308	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U309	Good manager! Good waitress! One of the objectives of this draft is to reduce the use of English at the expense of the taxpayer and to reduce the use of English in universities. Can you tell me, by making it wooden and red, how it is possible and to what extent it is really possible? It's really big at times now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U310	Thank you. It's really big. About 95% will study in English and a few more percent will be in Russian and only a few percent will remain in Estonian for learners. But how can it be increased? I would point out that studying in Estonian would in any case be free of charge. How to increase the number of students in Estonian? Still, by increasing the quality of our university, we teach foreign students those specializations in which we are strong and where the motivation is to come here and really learn the Estonian language in an additional year, or at least to be clearer, so that they can listen to most of the lecture courses in Estonian, study in Estonian, integrate into Estonian society and stay here after receiving education at the expense of the Estonian taxpayer. Their job would then be in line with their qualifications, they would not have such a feeling of exclusion that they have graduated from the university in Estonia, but still have to go to work at a lower salary than Estonian students who have graduated from the same specialty.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U311	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U312	Thank you, Mr President. Good Jack! A few points ago, Parliament adopted a decision to eliminate the problem committee on the population crisis. If we do not formalise this as a law, will Parliament solve the problem of our population crisis with foreigners?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U313	Thank you for your question. This is certainly not a resolution of the crisis; it is a deepening of the crisis. The reasons for the resolution of the problem committee of the population crisis were so inconvenient that they did not even have the will to criticise them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U314	Thank you. Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U315	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! I understand that the problem with students is probably not that students of relatively childbearing age who arrive in Estonia, and with their spouse, have children here. There are probably not many who have to be dealt with by the local government: kindergarten places, perhaps later school places. The problem, however, is the people from the Eastern Slavic cultural space. As a member of the Tallinn Council, I remember that in my time there was a very big problem, that people would come here, get a residence permit and then say: but please, here's my child, I want a kindergarten place, and I have another child who would like to go to first class. Has the pressure exerted by these late immigrants been investigated by local authorities and by the number of people we are talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U316	Thank you. I do not know such a specific study, but it is possible that it has still been analysed. Must be on some level. But this problem statement makes perfect sense. If we still give people permission to live here in Estonia, then we obviously have to treat them humanely. It's perfectly clear! For example, if we allow a large Muslim community to emerge here, it makes perfect sense that there is pressure to build mosques. There is no doubt about that. And obviously, when we are talking about improving the skills of the Estonian language, when such massive immigration occurs, I recall that in the last two years net migration has been between 4 000 and 5 000 people, what could this mean for our education, our social sector, our integration problems? From the point of view of integration, it's like carrying water with a sieve when we're practically out of bounds. Let us recall the situation that we had at the end of the Soviet era. The current net migration balance is about the same as it was in the late 1980s. True, migration turnover was higher at the time. The people of my generation obviously remember this situation, which was: how the Estonian cultural space remained ever narrowed and narrowed, and nothing could be done at the time. But now we can do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U317	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U318	Thank you. My question is due to one of your answers, which you said on the board: that the job and pay of foreign students should be in line with qualifications. That's right! Unfortunately, we know that a large majority of Estonians do not have this opportunity ♪ either of the graduates of Estonian universities or of those who have graduated earlier and have already been in working life. Many people do not have the opportunity, especially outside Tallinn and Tartu, to get a job and pay corresponding to their qualifications. How do you imagine that we should provide a decent job for foreign students and those who come here as immigrants, according to their qualifications, as well as such remuneration, but that we do not set such goals for our people? It seems to me that this is kind of upside down and unreasonable, given the situation of the indigenous people. Don't you?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U319	This is a very relevant question, especially when my answer was of this kind. Anyway, creating that impression was not one of my goals. I replied or I spoke about this in the context that the pay of Estonian students or Estonian finaliters is on average 18% higher in the case of master's studies than that of foreign students. In fact, it is extremely difficult to define what is a qualifying salary. I just took this comparative proportion and said that the pay for foreign graduates is lower and this is due to the very simple fact that we do not provide the necessary education to find a job that matches their skills. That was the thought. We have, indeed,.• you drew attention to this as of this spring, about 54000 unemployed people, for whom securing a job with a decent salary should be our primary objective.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U320	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U321	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I have a question about the problems with the people coming here. We can see from the experience of our neighbours that conflicts between nations, between religions and within religions are being brought into the new country. It is also very clear that criminal interests and conflicts arising from them are being projected in the new country in its former home country. My question is, are the various interest groups • educational institutions, the business community, as well as the political forces, perceived by those risks that are very difficult to eliminate? And do they consider these problems? What are they gonna do?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U322	Thank you for that question. I guess that's right again. The interest groups themselves, the word itself, indicate that they have certain interests, don't they? And actually, we are the ones here who should think about the interests of Estonia as a whole. We should not rely more on the interests of entrepreneurs or more on the interests of universities, but our interest should be Estonia as a whole. And immigration policy is a very important part of thinking about Estonia as a whole. When I come to the first part of this question, I may speculate a little bit, or, let's say this, inspired by it, I will comment once more on this subject. In principle, no nation, say, is more criminal or more criminal than the other. The question is simply that social ties are weakening in the new location country and, consequently, there is much more avantyrism in the new location country. This also applies to those of our fellow nations who have settled in another country. After all, this risk can be reduced precisely by trying to speed up their adaptation as much as possible so that people can integrate as quickly as possible, adapt quickly and get a job quickly. It all means a smart immigration policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U323	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U324	Thank you very much, Mr President. Jaak, please, help me understand one thing that pushes you from saying that our net migration is now 4,000 to 5,000 people in the last year or in recent years. This is exactly what is confusing for me, and I am trying to understand that we have liberal circles who love to say that we should not be too obsessed with this issue. That we have these quota refugees 500-150, and that's so few. There are figures that are spoken of. At the same time, we know that there are 17 exceptions in the Aliens Act, according to which there will be considerably more people for us. We talked about short-term work, which we have promised in tens of thousands in recent years, and you yourself actually said that many of these tens of thousands of temporary workers are either staying here or going to the European Union. For me, it is incomprehensible what this net migration means. What kind of number is that, really?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U325	Thank you. This is an appropriate question about the definition. A person who has come from another country and lived here for exactly a year could be considered to be a permanent resident. We register it in Estonia in the population register and other registers. We're going to get this data from the registers, and then we're going to define that this person has been here for over a year and then we're going to register him as a permanent resident. And so many of these permanent residents have come: 16,000 came last year and left 12,000. So there were 4,000 more permanent residents by whom.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U326	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U327	Good manager and waitress! You've been saying that net migration is 4,000 to 5,000 a year. The aim of the draft is to ensure that Estonian language and culture are preserved throughout the ages. But my question is that "through the ages" is such a relatively amorphic concept. What does that really mean? If the net migration continues, when will these times be over? The preamble to the Constitution states that the aim is to ensure the preservation of Estonian language and culture throughout the ages. When's this gonna get so critical?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U328	I guess it's hard to say that mathematically. If the net migration is within the limits of the last two years, it will take us more than 10 years, 10 to 20 years, so that the share of Estonians in Estonia will fall to the same level or below the level where it has been at its lowest. In 1989 it was 61.5%. And now, if we recall this 1989, we can ask whether this situation was a threat to our nation and our culture or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U329	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U330	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Jack! I have asked several ministers in this Chamber a very simple question, to which I have not received an answer, and I hope now to get it from you. How much has the percentage of Estonians decreased in Estonia in recent years?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U331	According to Statistics Estonia, this decrease has been.. and I stress that we do not excel with good statistics, and that is why we need a new decent census of 0.1 or 0.2% per year since 2015.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U332	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Thank you very much. I now ask Andrei Korobeinik, member of the Constitutional Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U333	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good ambassadors! The Constitutional Commission discussed this draft at its meeting on Monday 17 May. This is an amendment of the Aliens Act initiated by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Bill 354. At the beginning of this item, the initiator explained that the aim of the draft was to make changes to the labour and learning mobility regulation. The main change is that the criterion on the pay of foreigners is being doubled. Another important change is that universities should start charging tuition fees to foreign students according to the draft. There are a few exceptions to that. In addition, foreign students can no longer receive needs-based education support. The family members of foreign students are also limited to moving to Estonia with foreign students. Another important change is that working for short-term workers on seasonal work will be limited in time to six months per year. The purpose of the amendments is, according to the initiator, to limit migration and in particular to limit family migration. Ruth Annus presented the opinion of the Government of the Republic to the Commission on the draft and explained that the government considered changes concerning learning mobility to be reasonable. Ruth Annus added that the fact that it contributes to the increase in the number of citizens in countries with high migration and security risks on a daily basis is a concern for learning migration. This has led to the emergence of communities in Estonia that did not exist before. Other changes were not supported by the Government of the Republic. Since the Government of the Republic plans to initiate a new draft to regulate labour and learning mobility itself, the Government of the Republic did not support this draft at all. The Commission's further debate focused on whether additional restrictions on mobility are needed and whether the number of days of short-term employment should be further limited compared to today's situation. The Commission took the following decisions: Firstly, to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 2 June, to date, to propose that the draft be rejected. While the first proposal was consensual, there were 4 Commission members in favour of the rejection proposal, 2 against and 1 abstention. And the last decision was to appoint me as waitress, the decision was consensual. I am happy to answer the questions, but there is probably no longer much to expect.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U334	Your report's over?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U335	Yeah, my report's over.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U336	Got it. You have at least one question. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U337	Thank you. Indeed, I do have a question. You said one of the reasons for rejecting the bill was the confirmation by the Government of the Republic that the government intends to come up with some sort of similar bill itself. The current government has been in office for five months soon. We now have a few weeks left for this Riigikogu session, it is clear that nothing will happen before autumn, and then very little will be left until the next elections. If it takes five months alone to take off and the draft proposed by the previous government was withdrawn, now this initiative will be rejected, while the draft itself has not managed to move anywhere in five months, did you not have any doubt that the government representatives would give you an eye? Didn't you personally hesitate in the committee? It's such a long run that you might never make it to the finish line.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U338	Thank you. This issue was under discussion when we examined the government's opinion on the draft. Apparently, they came to the government's conclusion that they're coming out with their bill. They could otherwise have simply not supported it, but they justified it precisely by this fact. Well, I had no doubt. I wasn't in the cabinet meetings myself, and in that sense I don't know exactly what the government's plans are. And we didn't talk about that time plan in the Commission either.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U339	On this item, where first reading is under way, we have two questions. But let's move on. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U340	Thank you. According to the PBA, 32000 migrant workers are likely to come to Estonia this year or at least so many applications will be submitted. Did you also discuss in the Commission that, knowing that they are actually coming to work for very little money, they are taking down our salary levels? At the same time, we have 54,000 unemployed. How does rejecting this bill affect our own people's livelihood? Anyone, any government representatives ever worry about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U341	Thank you. This was indeed mentioned in the Commission. Not this number, but the impact of migration on the labour market at all. One aspect is that there is a shortage of labour in certain sectors. This means that the Estonian budget will lose its income. Whether it's a very small salary or not is obviously a human being's own appreciation. We have addressed these pay criteria at the Commission meeting, which are currently being set. Whether to consider Estonia's average wage as low or high is a question of estimates. These are the assessments we have not made in the Commission. And the representatives of the government have not announced that they would have any fear of the people who may come to Estonia this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U342	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U343	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! We have had the rectors present in the group and we have discussed these problems. In general, this is a relatively acute problem with all these tuition fees and so on. Well, I believe you agree with this too, but I would still like to know your personal position as to whether this draft law should move forward or whether the government should definitely bring its draft to our Parliament. What is your personal position?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U344	Thank you. I have expressed my personal position in the vote that took place a few weeks ago in the Commission. And there I voted in favour of this bill not to move forward. Three other people did the same thing with me. And since four are greater than two, the Commission's decision was that this draft could be rejected. So my personal opinion coincides with the Commission's opinion this time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U345	Good waitress, thank you. No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? It's what you want. I open negotiations and ask Mr Helir-Valdor Seeder, representative of the Isamaa Group, to the Riigikogu speech chair. Three extra minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U346	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The law of foreigners and its changes caused a storm in the previous coalition. Despite the fact that several things were agreed at coalition talks, we were unable to reach the finish within two years or almost two years of amending this law. This is because of different views and opinions. And this turned out to be one of the frog eyes of the whole coalition, and one can be expected to be one of the major cracks that contributed to the current government coalition leading Estonia. But immigration policy is an extremely important and sensitive issue for Estonia because we are a relatively unique country in Europe as a whole. Countries where late immigrants have arrived on such a massive scale and make up such a large proportion of the population, in Europe there are no other countries than Estonia and Latvia, let alone the European Union. So the concern of all other countries, if we compare Sweden or Germany or any other country with ourselves, is that relationship in these countries is significantly, many times smaller than in Estonia. And all the more reason we should feel and sense this small country as a small nation and culture. I am extremely sorry to note that the Government of the Republic rejected the draft of the previous coalition, which could have been dealt with and changed here if it had been good ideas. The government is currently rejecting the opposition's initiatives to show initiative and, at the same time, it has not reached Parliament in five months with any of these drafts, and it is unlikely that it will reach it in the coming months. This means that the real desire, the will to deal with these issues, is lacking in the current government coalition. The Fatherland does not really support this draft initiated by the EKRE in the form it has been submitted. However, we support this initiative and consider it essential to address this issue. We believe that Parliament should proceed with this draft. It is quite rational to finish the first reading and then to discuss further, to look for the common part of Parliament that we can agree to adopt sensible amendments. But the need for change is obvious. The text of the draft rapporteur also highlighted a number of very serious and substantive problems, and whoever thought and listened at all, probably understood. The Fatherland Party has dealt with these issues both in the previous coalition and in the previous coalition. When reminding students of the higher education in English that we have here in different curricula, I would point out that in the case of three-year administrative contracts currently concluded between the Estonian state and universities, it was the Isamaa that was the intermediary. I personally also negotiated with the Rectors in order to get some very important changes to these administrative contracts in order to clarify the principle that free higher education is intended for study programmes in Estonian. We should not subsidise foreign language higher education education at the expense of the Estonian taxpayer. That is not the goal. It must be covered by tuition. And we have been able to sign up to these administrative agreements that all universities undertake to charge minimum tuition fees from foreign students who study in foreign language curricula. It was also possible to agree another important amendment to these agreements, which are now coming to an end. The current government is negotiating new agreements. This change was that all foreign students have a minimum obligation to learn Estonian language and culture. This is necessary to succeed at the Estonian-language university. But if they decide to stay here later, it would also be easier for them to integrate into Estonian society and then they will be more competitive to succeed in Estonian society. So with good will, even without a legal basis, it was possible to reach certain agreements with universities. But, of course, it is reasonable and better if these things are regulated by law, resolved by law. That is why the Isamaa Group supports the procedure for this draft. We intend to present certain amendments to this draft if the first reading is completed. This opportunity depends on the will of the majority in Parliament. Above all, I look here at coalition parties as to whether or not there is a substantial will to deal with these problems. I really hope that's the will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U347	Thank you. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be represented by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Henn Põlleaa. Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U348	Ladies and gentlemen, Estonia is in an unprecedented demographic crisis caused by low birth rates and large emigration. More than 100,000 people have left Estonia because of unemployment and low wages. We are a donor country with our people for European countries and for their growth. Ilves once cynically stated that it was a free choice of people. However, if you leave because you do not have bread on your family's table or because you cannot live off your salary, it is not a free choice. The same is true of the small birth rate of our people. According to surveys, Estonian women would be willing to give birth to more children than they are now. However, the demographic crisis has no importance in the eyes of the government, the measures taken to increase the birth rate and support families are cosmetic. Despite the resounding words, the government has not put any emphasis on this. On the contrary, even the problem committee of the Riigikogu population and the position of the Minister of Population were abolished. The preservation of the Estonian people was replaced by a savings of EUR 100 000. We are told that the Estonian economy needs migrant labour and that these few existing restrictions should be further mitigated. The reduced population must be replaced by immigrants, the country's economy being sustainable only through the introduction of migrant labour. The coalition obviously has not heard anything about digitisation, automation or roboting. With cheap migrant labour, we trap ourselves in the trap of labour poverty and fall hopelessly behind in the development and implementation of technology. Don't dream of a bright future! Excellent support systems have been designed for immigrants to survive. At the same time, nothing is done to keep our own entrepreneurship, our own people and our workforce here by creating a better business environment, or to create the conditions for the return of those who left Estonia. You don't care about them. We have about 54000 unemployed and about 15,000 migrant workers who take the job and bring it down to pay grade. The Estonian Trade Union Confederation has also protested against this. Of course, in vain. According to the analysis carried out by the United Nations Department of Population in 2001, 161 million immigrants should be brought to Europe within half a century to keep the ratio of older people at the same level, given that immigrants are also ageing, as much as 1.36 billion immigrants by 2050. According to the European Refugee Fund, 406 million new migrants and displaced persons could be brought into the European Union. Given that around 500 million people live in Europe, there is no need for a fantasy to imagine what Europe will become in this development. We're seeing it today. In the light of the above-mentioned UN analysis, at least 3 million immigrants should be brought to Estonia by 2050, according to the European Refugee Fund as much as 7.6 million. This is insane! During the current government, both the immigration of foreigners and the emigration of Estonians have increased again and quite clearly. However, the coalition has decided to reject the draft amendment to the Aliens Act tabled by the EKRE, which would prevent mass immigration and foreign low-cost labour from spreading and would not allow universities to be used as an immigration pump. It seems that the government is planning such a situation, in other words, to replace our people and our population. It's no wonder. Whoever comes across the border, no matter what nationality he is, is said to be an Estonian. Today we heard Prime Minister Kaja Kallas saying here that when we look at Estonia, it is not true that we have some kind of mass immigration. This is simply not true, because we have an immigration limit for granting residence permits to foreigners who come to Estonia. This is a maximum of 0.1% of the population, or 1315 people. There is no major immigration in Estonia or its pressure. Unfortunately, a report by Statistics Estonia was published on Wednesday, which says that according to the migration statistics of recent years, more people arrive in Estonia than they leave the country, with people born in Ukraine and also in India. Last year nearly 4 000 people moved to Estonia more than they left the country, and of course they were not mainly Estonians. With regard to migratory pressure and influx of migrants, it was only in early May that the PBGB announced that 32000 migrant workers or applications could be expected to be made at a record rate this year. Most come from Ukraine, Belarus, Russia, Moldova and Uzbekistan, and all of them can also bring their family members. Remember, at the same time, we have 54,000 of our people out of work. Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, who has lied to all of us in a gruesome and irresponsible way, probably doesn't know anything about the Kapo Yearbook, which says that the number of immigrants from risk countries has tripled in Estonia over the last five years. In communities associated with risk countries, systemic problems that promote and create criminal relations are increasingly being drawn up. The countries at risk are those with a large Muslim community, and the country has been taken up by Islamic terrorism, where terrorist attacks have been committed. This was explained by the Director General of the Special Branch. As of 2015, the number of Indians, Nigerians, Pakistanis, Iranians, Egyptians and others was already 6,000 more this year. And the number of Islamic extremists under the surveillance of the Kapo has increased, but the coalition and the government do not care. In Estonia, the share of the population of foreign origin in Europe is one of the highest, absolutely indisputable. And it can be said with certainty that immigration during the occupation has been restored. We know exactly what its purpose was then. I think most of you know that this is exactly the same goal now. I have no reason to think otherwise. In the whole coalition agreement between the Reform Party and the Centre Party, half of the nation or nation state cannot be found, much less the need to preserve or protect it. All of us, both the Riigikogu and the Government, have a duty to comply with the constitutional obligation to stand up for the preservation of the Estonian language, culture and nationality. If you, ladies and gentlemen, stand up for this at all, for the Estonian state and for the Estonian people, please support the adoption of the draft submitted by the EKRE. All surveys show that this is what the Estonian people expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U349	Thank you. There doesn't seem to be any more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject the draft 354 at first reading. Let us begin the preparation of this vote. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U350	Thank you, President-in-Office. On behalf of the EKRE Group, I would like to ask for a break 10 minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U351	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U352	Ladies and gentlemen, The break taken by the EKRE Group is over and we will proceed with the procedure of the 354 draft. The negotiations are over. The commission has proposed to reject the draft 354 at first reading and I am voting on the proposal of the commission to reject it. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U353	The rejection proposal was supported by 48 delegates, against 28. The draft will fall out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U354	Today's eighth item: Draft Act amending § 13 of the Citizenship Act, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group and Riigikogu member Raimond Kaljulaid, 329. The rapporteur is Jevgeni Ossinovski, member of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U355	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Well, where are you all going now, such an important law! Mr Hepner, for example, is very happy to listen to important things; he has missed it. [[In the diner.]] Thank you. I present to you the draft law amending § 13 of the Citizenship Act, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group 329. The draft consists of one sentence. In particular, it repeals section 13, paragraph 42 of the Citizenship Act and implements it retroactively from 17 February 2020. But of that, I think, you do not understand anything, and therefore I will explain to you the point of this draft and, on the basis of the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, a bit of a broader background. Having been in Parliament for ten years, I have discovered with surprise that so many young colleagues have been added who do not remember or have never known the various subcurrents of changes to the Citizenship Act. The aim of the draft is to correct one ugly provision that was put into the noble change made during the previous government. In fact, by the provision that came into force in February 17, 2020, we have allowed children born in Estonia and whose parent or grandparent has been in Estonia at the time of Estonia's regaining independence, to have their own person, to receive Estonian citizenship without examination, in a simplified way, if one parent is a person of undefined citizenship with a grey passport and the other parent is a third-country national, mostly 90% then a citizen of the Russian Federation. They will be able to obtain Estonian citizenship in a simplified way, and this is because we can move in that direction so that we stop producing Estonian citizenship again in the Russian Federation. The year was 2014, when the government of the Social Democrats and Reform Party, on my proposal, reached this agreement and also an amendment to the law with which we stopped producing grey passports in Estonia. So those children who are born in such a way that they can have undefined citizenship, because both their parents have a grey passport, will automatically receive Estonian citizenship if the parent does not "actively give up." With this, we had to stop producing a grey passport. This Decision shall apply from 1 January 2016. And in one year, about 800 children from 1,000 children who grew up without any nationality became Estonian citizens. In one year! This is also the last real change in Estonian citizenship policy, and its aim really is that all children born and raised in Estonia would have a relationship with the Estonian state based on Estonian citizenship. From there the matter has been discussed and proposals have been made on how to take the next step. Because, in addition to the re-production of the grey passport, we actually have the re-production of the citizenship of the Russian Federation, and this is actually happening at an increasing rate. Colleagues may not know that if one parent lives in Estonia with a grey passport and another with a Russian Federation passport, their child is automatically a citizen of the Russian Federation. It's automatically, even if he doesn't go to the Russian embassy, he won't take out his passport. For the Estonian state, it is a citizen of the Russian Federation who is born. Consequently, this amendment had been introduced. This was, in fact, already in the previous coalition, of which my party was also a party. It was proposed to allow these children to acquire Estonian citizenship in this way without examination. Then they would already grow as Estonian citizens. They're our kids, aren't they? At that time, this proposal was not realised as a result of differences of opinion within the coalition. In 2019 this much smaller piece of the proposal was realised and then entered into force on 17 February 2020. And if there was a solution in the then proposal that even if the child is a child of two Russian citizens, but he was born in Estonia, he could become an Estonian citizen without examination, then the compromise option was accepted that one parent must have a grey passport and the other one must be a third-country national. Then the child becomes an Estonian citizen without examination. I supported this amendment because it is also a step forward less than I would have liked, but the right step in the right direction. But what was written in it? This will now open the next complex legal procedure. In accordance with this amendment, which has entered into force, it is required that, in order for children to whom this right is essentially granted by law, must first give up the citizenship of the Russian Federation, prove to the Estonian state that they are no longer citizens of the Russian Federation. There is nothing to argue about the principle here, because there is a double citizenship ban in Estonia and one could say that at first glance it makes sense, makes sense. But here, once again, nuances need to be known. The nuance is that the Russian Federation does not exempt minors from Russian citizenship from its citizens. And this means in practice that this change, which entered into force last February and according to which, in theory, you could obtain Estonian citizenship without exams, will not help the 1400 children. In fact, 1300 of these children are those who cannot obtain Estonian citizenship in practice. Perhaps they will get confirmation from the Estonian state that they will be admitted to Estonian citizenship at the moment they submit an application and proof that they have been exempt from Russian citizenship. If the parents of this child go to the Russian Consulate and say that please release my child from the citizenship of the Russian Federation because he wants Estonian citizenship, then the Consul of the Russian Federation says that, unfortunately, this application cannot be accepted, because under the citizenship law of the Russian Federation minors will not be released from it. If you want to read more about this problem, you can write "The Case of the Kohtla-Järve Girl," which I dealt with in 2013, if I remember correctly. Then we had exactly the same problem: the Estonian state wanted to take Estonian citizenship away from the Estonian child because it could not give up the citizenship of the Russian Federation. This bill is based on the fact that the state should not impose conditions on its own citizen that it cannot fulfil for reasons beyond its control. The person wants to renounce the citizenship of the Russian Federation, but he cannot, the country will not allow him to leave its nationality. The intention of the draft is to waive this unreasonable and demeaning requirement and really give all those who have already, in essence, been granted the right to citizenship by the decision that came into force in February last year, even the possibility of obtaining Estonian citizenship. It is not necessary to require them, as a minor, to renounce the citizenship of the Russian Federation. Then we would really be able to have 1400 children, not 130, as has now come true in practice. Today, this entire target group has been around 1,400 children. During the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mrs Koidu Bee from the Ministry of the Interior reported that as of 18 May 59 of these 1400 children or 1500 children had submitted this application and that 10 children have actually obtained Estonian citizenship. So the major breakthrough that entered into force on 17 February last year has given Estonian citizenship to 10 people today. Well, there are some more children coming, because there are also some Ukrainian citizens among their parents, some Lithuanian citizens and one Portuguese citizen. They can theoretically give up, so maybe 10 becomes 15, maybe 20, but you understand the order of magnitude: basically, 1,500 children are granted citizenship, and today they're under 100. The purpose of our draft is that all 1500, on whom Parliament has made a fundamental decision, could indeed become an Estonian citizen without an examination, so that they can actually exercise this right. The biggest objection, which we will certainly hear today, concerns double citizenship. There is a ban on multi-citizenship in Estonia, and this change will lead us to give these children, who already have the majority of the citizenship of the Russian Federation, to Estonian citizenship and then have two passports: Estonian passport and Russian passport. Russian passport may not even exist because they may not have taken it out of the consulate, but let us say that they are considered to be citizens of the Russian Federation after birth. They have the opportunity to apply for this passport. And it is claimed that this could be contrary to the principles of Estonian citizenship policy. It is important to explain here that, according to these changes since 2016, to which I have already pointed out, the general rule of the Estonian Citizenship Act is that multiple citizenship is permitted for minors. For all minors in Estonia, double or multiple citizenship is permitted as a general rule, according to my memory in § 3. And this system works very easily, generally in the same way for everyone. You may have two passports, whether obtained by birth or later, up to the age of 18, but after that, a person must choose whether he or she wants to retain Estonian citizenship within three years and then he or she will really renounce the citizenship of the Russian Federation or he or she wishes to retain the citizenship of the Russian Federation and renounce Estonian citizenship or it will be taken away from him or her. Our proposal is to treat this particular group, the 1500 children who have been granted the right to Estonian citizenship, equally with all other minors within the same general rule. Yes, that means that these minors, these children, have a theoretical opportunity to receive a Russian Federation passport in addition to the Estonian passport, but this is not usually the case in practice. They are simply considered to be born-to-be citizens without documents on it. But then, when a person turns 18, the Ministry of the Interior really turns to them and says that now you have to decide and give up one or another citizenship in three years. Why do we think this is a better solution? Various integration studies confirm that children who have grown up as citizens have a stronger identity. If you have already grown as an Estonian citizen, there is a greater likelihood that at that moment, if you have to choose, you will actually opt for Estonian citizenship. You have grown in this country as a citizen of that country, and as a result you have a stronger connection with this country and society. And we do not really see any reason, indeed, no reason! just why this particular group of minors should be subject to more stringent rules on the exclusion of double citizenship than all other minors. There are really no substantive reasons for this. The reasons sought are, and they were also brought to the Commission's discussions. That these unfortunate children are a security threat to Estonia and all the other common talk that we hear during discussions on citizenship policy in the Republic of Estonia. We are talking about children born in Estonia, whose ancestors have lived here for generations. The fact that they receive Estonian citizenship, in addition to the citizenship of the Russian Federation, is a security threat! This is a broader question about the achievements and specificities of Estonian citizenship policy. I really believe that there are different opinions in the legitimate sense here, it must be acknowledged that one of the consequences of Estonian citizenship policy is that there are almost 100000 citizens of the Russian Federation in Estonia as permanent residents, not the success of Estonian citizenship policy, but the failure. I believe that the permanent residents of Estonia who live in this country could have a relationship with the Estonian state based on Estonian citizenship, and we could do anything to increase the share of Estonian citizens in Estonia. As far as adults are concerned, those people who were caught by the change in the regime in 1991 and then made their decision whether to stay with a grey passport or to take the Russian Federation's passport, it is a matter of its own, without doubt, also a politically highly emotionally charged issue. This bill does not deal with this. We're talking about kids right now. We are talking about children who have lived in Estonia, who have grown in Estonia, go to school here, and about the gesture of the Estonian state, that we actually recognise them as our children, as our own, and give them the citizenship of the Republic of Estonia, without requiring them to take steps that are simply legally impossible for them. In the debate that took place in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we heard, of course, these pragmatic arguments about the fundamentals of citizenship policy, these were all the stories that usually come to kill any substantive debate. However, as has been said, the principle of granting Estonian citizenship to this particular target group has been decided by the state, it has been legalised, it is already a rule in the Citizenship Act. The question is whether we actually allow these children to exercise this right, to actually exercise it, or whether we do not. Undoubtedly, those people who have little contact with the Russian-speaking population regard them as predominantly objects in Estonian society and are likely to find it difficult for them to know all these circumstances, including that it actually causes defiance. I have been approached by a number of parents who said when this law was passed that, well, I am so glad that in the end I have the opportunity to go and let my child know that I want Estonian citizenship. Well, I myself, as I am, have not learned this language, I am sorry for myself, but I do, but at least I want my child to be a citizen of this country and to start his life as a full-fledged citizen of Estonia. So it's really hard to explain that yes, it is, but, you know, you don't really have that right. Yes, you are submitting an application, yes, the Government of the Republic even adopts an order that you are an Estonian citizen, but it is beautifully written that this order that you become a citizen will enter into force only after you provide proof that you are exempt from the citizenship of the Russian Federation. This proof cannot be provided by this family for reasons beyond its control. I think it's all ugly. If a decision has been made that, in principle, these children have been granted the right to citizenship, then it should also be applied with dignity, so that these people can actually have that right. Of course, this is not the first time we have tabled this proposal. We also proposed this when this bill was being dealt with. At that time the coalition included the Centre Party, the Fatherland, and the EKRE. And then a politician of the Fatherland said that their goal was to give it to as few people as possible. Okay, you might realize that maybe it was ideologically meant to haunt the Centre Party: it's like you're getting some sort of election promise fulfilled, but really people can't exercise that right. Now the government has changed, and I think that the circumstances that were politically important at the time are in a slightly different light today. For example, representatives of the Centre Party have now supported the procedure for this draft in the new situation, and I think it is important to actually correct this ugliness born as a result of a certain political compromise. With our draft, we will also give this opportunity to Parliament. Let us make the arrangements for this change implemented last year so that these 1500 children can actually become Estonian citizens. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U356	Thank you. There's some questions for the waitress. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U357	Thank you for a very thorough presentation, honourable waitress. My question is whether this problem concerns only citizens of the Russian Federation or whether there are concerns with citizens of other countries as well. Do we only regenerate Russian citizens?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U358	No, not just that. Naturally, in Estonia, children are born into mixed families, where the parents have a very diverse citizenship. I do not have a full review here, but in the context of this same change, Mrs Dawn Bee pointed out that the children who have taken advantage of this opportunity had a total of 59 out of 1500. Ten of them have acquired citizenship and the remaining 49 include 37 citizens of the Russian Federation, ten citizens of Ukraine, one Lithuanian national and one Portuguese national. The reason why I spoke overwhelmingly about the citizens of the Russian Federation is that it is indeed the largest group. More than 90% of those who are children who are third-country nationals are citizens of the Russian Federation. The rest of them are likely to be added by individual means, including from exotic countries, but it really does concern the citizens of the Russian Federation. That's one. Secondly, the question is that, in the case of the Russian Federation, we know exactly that there is such a practice. It is a long-standing practice, it is their choice of citizenship policy that they do not exempt their children from citizenship unless the parent and the child join the citizenship of another country together. They have their own logic. As far as I can see by reading their laws, they try to avoid children's citizenship. They let the child go with the parent to another country's nationality. For example, if an older citizen of the Russian Federation and his child want to leave the citizenship of the Russian Federation and enter Estonian citizenship, this is possible. But if the parent doesn't want and wants only the child, they won't. Only allowed with the parent. This is their choice of citizenship policy. There have certainly also been arguments here as to why they have such rules. I don't know why they have these rules. The Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia does not have the opportunity to influence the citizenship policy of the Russian Federation, but we can influence our own in order to meet our people. A large number of countries, of course, allow the admission of Estonian citizenship in this context. But those children who belong to the citizenship of such countries are beautifully few in Estonia. Most of them belong to the citizenship of the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U359	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U360	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good Evgeny! Morton Blackwell, the great American thinker, has once said that nothing happens in politics without pressure. And here we have to salute, the pressure has been strong on your part. No matter how few of you are, you're still pushing and pushing. And I thank you for a good presentation, because very well and clearly you have been able to make it clear that the institution of citizenship for socialists is nothing more than a form, the content is not very important. The important thing is quantity, not quality. That's what comes out clearly. But the question I have is that you stated at the committee meeting that Article 19 (3) of the Russian Federation Citizenship Act does not allow minors to renounce their nationality. Maybe you can quote to me how that's gonna sound? Is it "can't" inside, and it's not ripped out of context or anything like that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U361	Thank you, Honourable Paul Pulpland! I opened the law. I don't know how to quote the Russian Federation Citizenship Act. But I have really dealt with this particular issue and, among other things, in my time also had contact with the Russian consul in the Republic of Estonia on this matter. I was very upset about why, on which basis they would not release this particular Kohtla-Järve girl from Russian citizenship. That's the case I was really working on. And it seemed to me that it was somehow malicious that they should actually release and the child would receive Estonian citizenship. He really made it legally clear to me that the consulate of the Russian Federation does not even have the right to accept this request, because there is no reason to leave in this particular provision, which is § 19. I actually can't start reading it to you right now, and maybe it's not right. However, in principle, the title of this particular provision or paragraph is 'Leasing the nationality of the Russian Federation' and there are three points which state the manner in which it is possible to leave. And the third concrete way in which this can be done is at the request of the parents to the Russian Federation in the event that they leave with the child. Otherwise... In short, there is no basis for allowing a child to leave the Russian Federation without a parent. Let's be honest, when we think about normal practice, it would be rather strange if the parent came and told me that I wanted to be a citizen of your country, but please let go of my child, I'll take him somewhere else for citizenship. Well, according to the usual logic, it would still be an exception. Of course, we might want there to be some sort of special provision for this type of situation, but it is not there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U362	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U363	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Am I right to understand that these children, if they wish to undergo this classical naturalisation process, that is to say, both of these exams if they are, I do not know, aged 15 or 16 and if their knowledge of the Estonian language is sufficient, then they will not be able to acquire Estonian citizenship either, because they will not be able to provide proof that they are exempt from Russian citizenship? Should we not look at this issue even more broadly, so that children who have fulfilled all the conditions for the acquisition of citizenship of the Republic of Estonia would have the right to have one real citizenship on a temporary basis and another 'virtual', because as a rule they probably do not want to go to the consulate and formalise a Russian passport?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U364	Firstly, with regard to this particular case, which was the case of the Kohtla-Järve girl, it turned out that it is indeed the case that the Estonian state also considers a child who has one of the parents as a citizen of the Russian Federation to be a citizen of the Russian Federation after birth, even if there was no Russian passport requested and had nothing to do with the consulate. The Russian consul is sometimes quite surprised when they come to him and they say that we would like to give up the Russian passport. But they don't really have a Russian passport, they say that according to our records, you've never received a Russian passport. But the Estonian state does consider them a Russian citizen. This is, in principle, finally possible, but it is a rather peculiar situation in any case. The principle of birth citizenship, of course, applies both to Russia and to us, and that makes sense. But communication with the consulate has, I understand, been quite peculiar in practice. I am not a specialist in the citizenship law of the Russian Federation. From which age these applications will be accepted and under which implementing regulations, I cannot say exactly. I have asked the Estonian authorities and they have confirmed my interpretation. They do not know of cases where a child would be exempt from the citizenship of the Russian Federation without parents, and consequently, as was the case during this committee's discussion, the only solution for these children is that the parent should apply for Estonian citizenship with the child. According to another section of the Citizenship Act, if the parent applies for Estonian citizenship, he or she can apply for citizenship to his or her child at the same time. And if he gets to meet all the requirements, Estonian citizenship will be granted, then his child will also be granted, and in that case, together with the parent, the child will be released from the citizenship of the Russian Federation. Now the principle that was mentioned is that, be it with their parents, whether they have learned the Estonian language or not, they want one citizenship or another citizenship, people have different reasons, but in any case, I believe that children should not be guilty of failing to take any steps by their parents. The interest of us, the Estonian state, could be that, regardless of the choice of parents, the next generation would grow as Estonian citizens. Indeed, this possibility does not exist at present in practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U365	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U366	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good Evgeny! The fact that this bill has not been adopted in this form before is, in my opinion, mystical and strange, because it seems so logical and understandable. But my question is a little bit broader. We would like all these children to be integrated into Estonian society. How do you assess whether having Estonian citizenship, giving it to them under a little more reasonable or simple conditions will help to integrate them more into Estonian society or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U367	Thank you. My point of view, good colleague Tough, you know. But I'm quoting Home Secretary Kristian Jaan. The Government of the Republic failed to shape its position on this draft. We know in what circumstances the Government of the Republic will do so. The Ministry of the Interior proposed that the Government not shape its position as a result of this: I quote the Minister of the Interior, Kristian Jaani: "In view of the above, the Ministry of the Interior considers it justified to continue the wide-ranging discussions on this matter. " But before that, the Minister of the Interior writes to the Government of the Republic: "The Ministry of the Interior stresses the need for all minors who grow up in Estonia to receive the same support from the Republic of Estonia as children who acquire Estonian citizenship at birth. The fact that the parent of a minor child has not acquired Estonian citizenship under any circumstances must not become an obstacle to obtaining Estonian citizenship. Estonian citizenship is important for creating a strong state identity and creates a relationship of trust with the state. Citizenship identifies the country and the person and also creates a strong link with rights and obligations. " I think it's good words from the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U368	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U369	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good Evgeny! I will now repeat your words and try to understand your interpretation or how you explained the bill. I realized that the problem now is that the child whose parent is Russian citizenship does not receive Estonian citizenship. But at the same time, I realized that if the child is an adult, then he can apply for citizenship and there are no problems. That's right, isn't it? And this bill only deals with the situation where the child wants Estonian citizenship, but the parent does not want Estonian citizenship? Okay, then we have the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U370	Mr Paul Puustusmaa, you have rightly understood the substance of this draft. It is commendable and commendable. Undoubtedly, indeed. But when the child has grown up, he is no longer a child. And if we really look at this integrational approach, it is considered very important how identity and link with society will develop, in what way this process will proceed. Acquisition of nationality is very important. If a child grows up knowing that he or she is a full member of this society, that he or she is a citizen of that country, that he or she has all the rights and obligations of citizenship in the future towards that country and society, it will strengthen his or her identity and it will also promote integration, as the Minister of the Interior rightly pointed out. Of course, they can be 18 years old, pass their exams or graduate school, and then apply for citizenship, fix all their papers, and then become a regular citizen. This is indeed the way it is now. Experience confirms, however, that in this case very many people do not reach Estonian citizenship. Point one. Point two is that there is indeed no positive impact on integration, which would be in the event of a social signal that Estonian children are really all Estonian children and we treat them in this way. The socio-psychological positive effect of the growth of these children will also disappear.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U371	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U372	Good manager! Good waitress! Recently, congratulations! After a long, tiring job, you managed to destroy the cage animals, one form of business, through the aggressive behaviour of non-profits. Have you thought about it since the number of these cage animals and their foreign citizens is roughly the same, using some kind of non-profit organisation that is actively attacking our mailboxes, sending threats and going around with posters? How about we have an effect? Have you thought about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U373	Thank you, Mr. Ernits. I told you just before that you've been very clear today, but it's gonna fade by tonight. Yes, I work on a number of issues in politics at once. Indeed! I'm not like Tarmo Kruusimäe, who's finally leading all the subjects to the e-cigarettes. But completely separate issues are banning fur farms and changes to the Citizenship Act. I don't see any common ground here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U374	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U375	Thanks! Here's what I'm gonna ask. When you, Evgeny, read the first end of the government opinion written by the Minister of the Interior, Kristian Jaan, I realized that Kristian understands the matter and understands that it is serious and integration must take place, integration must take place. These children must be given citizenship. It would go on, the world would be better, Estonians would be happier. But then there were probably guidelines from the government that you shouldn't say yes to the moon, let's write some weird line at the end that we're analyzing it, which means that basically it doesn't suit us. Now, if you'd put yourself in government for a long time, you'd think you were in the government room when that decision was made. What, though, is the government's greatest fears about giving these pinch of children citizenship? It should be given to them, it would make the world a better place.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U376	I cannot answer this question in any other way than, yes, of course, Mr Tough, your long-term political experience will not let you down. If you read such a letter, you will understand that there are, of course, political deals in the background, not any substantive considerations. But I'd answer Yana Toom by paraphrasing, that's a surprising story! In fact, when the negotiations were held to put together a new coalition of government, Mrs Toom said, after that, that she had come to offer various, even the smallest, very reasonable and humane changes in citizenship policy, for example, that people with disabilities would receive Estonian citizenship without a language examination. Let's not torture people, these people could still get! But the Reform Party clearly opposed: no, no changes in citizenship policy will be made. Why they have such views, they can certainly express it either through Mr Randper's mouth or in the speech of another outstanding politician today.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U377	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U378	Thank you, good manager and waitress. Thank you for your concern. My spirit hasn't faded in the evening either, and I commend you, your demagoguery skills are glowing in the evening. But as you can see, the previous coalition and the present one have actually assessed your bill to go to the trash bin. I'm asking you, you've also been in the ministry, how does it feel to be here before nightfall and to know that the bill is going into the trash can?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U379	First, however, there is a difference: the previous one did indeed send the draft to the trash because one of the coalition's parties in principle did not agree with this change and that the amendment was intended to be done in the way it was implemented. Now the coalition is new and we are talking about the change made by the previous coalition. So the situation is different. In this cumulative legislative process, which is a good practice in Estonia, the following mistakes of previous governments have always been corrected from time to time, while making things worse from time to time, but I would generally like to hope that they will make them better, it is quite appropriate and reasonable to look at these issues again. And, as has been said, the Minister of the Interior actually wholeheartedly supports it, and the ambassadors of the Centre Party in the Commission said that this is a very good draft. Last time the exact same bill was on the table a year ago, they said it was a very bad bill. So in that sense, there are changes going on. And when you ask in the context of the voting results, our common heart, or bear farms, finally, you see, was done. Probably another three years ago, you would've said what you were gonna do, you'd see you couldn't get anything anyway. But you see, I got it today. This is the political process in a democratic society. I really think that a pluralistic democratic debate is the most appropriate one for Estonia. It may take time, it is not always the most effective, but in the long view, it is still the most sensible way of governing. I will do my job with my heart in accordance with the oaths I have made to the Estonian state, to the people and to my conscience.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U380	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U381	Since you asked me to say something, Evgeny, I will. I'm not sure you'll be as happy after what I said. But basically, why I'm saying this is because Paul Puustusmaa asked you to quote § 19 (3) of the Citizenship Act of the Russian Federation. You didn't do it. And I actually understand why you didn't do it. Because its content says: if a child wants to leave the citizenship of the Russian Federation and if one of his or her parents, or his or her single parent, is a foreign citizen, the child can do so in a simplified manner, on the basis of both parents' applications or on the basis of a single parent's application. And that's not exactly what you told us about the remote. Can you comment on whether my Russian has gone rusty or whether you have not really understood what this law says?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U382	Thank you, Mr. Randpere. I did not want to hold such nuanced legal discussions on the law of another state in the honourable Chamber of the Riigikogu. But if you insist, I can, of course, answer that question. I don't think it's a question of language skills. It is often so with the law, you also know that words have meaning in a collection. It may seem that purely linguistically I understood the sentence, but legally I didn't. And it's happened to you. Indeed, this law does say this, but it is critical that it is about children whose parent is a citizen of the Russian Federation and the other parent is a citizen of another country. The Russian Federation does not recognise a person residing in Estonia with an undetermined nationality as a citizen of another country because he does not have the citizenship of another country. If it were the case that one parent is an Estonian citizen and the other is a citizen of the Russian Federation, the transfer from the Russian Federation to Estonian citizenship would not be an absolute problem, according to this provision. However, since this provision emphasises that the other parent must be a national of another country and they do not regard the parent with a grey passport as a national of another country, that provision does not apply.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U383	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U384	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I ask how the Estonian state plans to meet its objectives. Whether we are looking at integration monitoring or at the goals set by the Ministry of the Interior, one of the indicators we monitor and actually aim for, the proportion of people with strong state identity is also among Russian-speaking people. I simply have a question of how to build this strong state identity and why set it as a goal if the country does not take any steps in this direction. For me, it's classified as such inconsistency. We aim for a smart economy and creativity, but we cut down on children's recreational education. We aim to preserve culture, but the first place to cut is like instinctively orchestras. Exactly the same: what about state identity when, in fact, the changes in the legal environment of the country are those that are rather frustrating people whose identity we would like to strengthen?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U385	Well, what am I gonna say? The situation is objective, it's simple. The pace of naturalisation in Estonia has fallen to historically low levels. There are 70,000 people with grey passports, their numbers are decreasing, and the biggest cause of the decline is death. In this context, I have heard that the problem of citizenshiplessness will resolve itself. Indeed! In a very long view, as once said by a famous economic thinker, in a very long view, all of us will be dead sometime. Indeed! But should this be the foundation of an active integration policy in the Estonian state? I daresay. And all this talk about, yes, having to take more soft measures, communication and all that is very nice. It's worth doing, and it could do even more. And, of course, language courses should be offered and motivated more. All this has to be done, is done. But it is clear that the scissors that yawn between what we would like to achieve and what today's reality is just so big. I really have had such a systematic approach in the Estonian Parliament over these ten years that, if the citizenship issues of adult people are very, very sensitive for historical reasons, right, people with very politically sensitive views have different very firm positions in this respect, then at least in the case of children, this could be a common part. Whether their parents have language skills and wishes, what is it like, but in the next generation, this problem will be solved so that we do not bring back the citizenship of the Russian Federation, but we really give them the opportunity to grow as Estonian citizens. It is deeply incomprehensible to me, and I consider it politically very cynical to apply these children, the issue of their citizenship to this whole'security cart'. It is like a security threat when these young children grow up as Estonian citizens. What kind of bullshit is this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U386	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U387	Thank you. I am now asking not only from a legal point of view, but also from a basic point of view. I do not in itself share your view and your very sympathetic attitude in the sense that people do not have citizenship. It's like creating some motivations and language courses for them. I've been in the same situation myself: a foreign country, I don't speak the language, I don't have citizenship. It was very clear to me what I had to do to get this citizenship. No one can be dragged along by the fact that we are making some kind of motivational packages, this is a question of human comprehension. If he feels like he's home here, then he gets citizenship and then the children's problem is solved. Legally, however, § 9 in the same law, the Citizenship Act of the Russian Federation, says that children must not be released from the citizenship of the Russian Federation only if they remain then stateless. There are no restrictions on the fact that he will then become an Estonian citizen, or in the case of his parents. Only if he remains a stateless person.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U388	You're misinterpreting again. This provision here, now, maybe there is a reason in Russian, says that in this case it is certainly not allowed. If the child remains stateless, then surely not. But he doesn't say that he can not be released in other cases. That is not what this provision says. But on your general line, I say: what would you recommend to a five-year-old child, what should he mature in, and what informed decisions should he make to become an Estonian citizen?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U389	Valdo Randpere has a procedural question, I hope.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U390	Now there's this procedural moment that I don't want to break the law. I don't want to take this chance that you gave me the microphone and tell me your answer to Evgeni. I want to ask the procedure that if Evgeny asks me a question...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U391	It was rhetorical, you don't have to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U392	... what a five-year-old child should do, I can't answer him because our procedure doesn't provide for it. Could you make an exception, good Martin, and give me that chance?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U393	That's not how good I am. I'm not that good! During the negotiations, trade out your group's right to negotiate. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U394	My question is inspired by a number of comments that came to you. One comment was when Peter Ernits tried to inject such pessimism into you that there was no point in trying if the first time did not succeed. Maybe you could remind us that we've been talking about the re-production of citizenship years before. In 2015, hellish battles were fought, and I remember the ambassadors of the Fatherland Union saying that the walls of this temple were starting to shake, because none of these hogs have ever been done before. That was when the restoration of citizenship was stopped at our initiative. And there have been other things. It was the case of a Kohtla-Järve girl, the fact that a minor can't take away citizenship, and you don't have to be 100 years old to get an exemption from a language exam, and so on. Maybe you're remembering what's already been done and what we seem to think is normal. And the second question is that at that time we managed to agree with the Reform Party and this was a relatively big step forward in the context of that period. What do you think happened to the Reform Party now that they're so rigidly evasive?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U395	Thank you. Indeed, Hanno Pevkur was then Minister of the Interior and we reached a very reasonable agreement to amend the Citizenship Act. Although this really created a lively debate in Parliament, there were many similar arguments that we have heard today. However, these amendments entered into force on 1 January 2016. As regards the abandonment of the written Estonian language examination for very elderly people, let us be honest, practically a few have taken advantage of this opportunity. However, no 80-year-old, I do not know, with the great hurrah of a lady living in Narva, she does not run to study Estonian and pass a language examination in order to become an Estonian citizen. By the way, some of these are, but it is clear that this is not a virtually very significant change. But it was a certain signicant change that we still humanely appreciate the requirements of the Citizenship Act. And if we don't think it's humane to assume that someone is going to study at that age, then we'll ease these requirements. And just as it did then, the restoration of citizenship was completed, which in fact lasted 20 years. International organisations also drew our attention to the fact that Estonia looks like a frozen conflict on the map of stateless persons. That we have a whole bunch of people who don't have any nationality. We know that there are historical reasons for this, but on the outside it still seems very strange that the country cannot solve this issue. And really, at least we were able to solve it, the re-production was stopped. And then, indeed, it was written that when a child has received two citizenships as a minor for one reason or another, we do not have to punish that child but will make a decision when he or she becomes an adult. Mr Randpere suggests that infants should begin to cultivate civic loyalty so that they have some kind of readiness for a civil loyalty test. We believe that it is right for a person to make this conscious choice when he grows up, regardless of his parents. In fact, it is precisely this logic that we do not want the fate of parents, in a sense, to depend on how well or badly the children are doing. But the Reform Party has indeed moved there, I would say it, very strangely on this particular issue, to the right side, where it is no longer possible to hold a substantively reasoned debate on this matter with the political party. The individual ambassadors who are in the Reform Party actually support this change and say that it should, of course, be done, but I do not know why it is not done. They're probably afraid somebody's gonna attack them in the election, or I don't know. Well, that's unfortunate progress, isn't it? But what am I supposed to say about other parties here? They can talk for themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U396	Thank you very much. No further questions for the rapporteur. I now call Paul Puustusmaa, representative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U397	Thank you very much, manager. Dear colleagues in this hall and where you are, behind the monitors, on the park benches, under the tree! I welcome this debate. I thank Evgen deeply. It was fun, and we will probably have to hear a great debate on this again and again in the future. By the way, Nikita Bogoslovski, was one such Russian conductor and musician, has said that oh, how she adores a combination that combines pleasant and useless. That was about the thought I had here, too, and in the debate that took place in the Commission, I was reminded of the words of Bogoslovski, because it was extremely pleasant and, at the same time, completely useless. We saw the pressure being put on the same idea all the time. I didn't make up my first question in Blackwell's words in vain when I pointed out that there was nothing going on in politics without pressure. Indeed, it does not happen, only if there is pressure, and this pressure must be constant. But the wish has still been one, as I have already said: probably only quantity, quality is not important. As Evgeny has already pointed out here, you see, it is nice that five-year-old children want to have Estonian citizenship. I thought it was interesting why five-year-old children want Estonian citizenship. We all know that children, whether they are Russian citizens, the citizens of Burundi, the children of Finnish citizens who are here, are five years old, six years old or ten years old, have the same rights as the children of our citizens. So where does this legal pressure come from now? We know that the socialists have achieved that we have children who choose. Perhaps in the future, even younger children will choose, perhaps we will indeed see in the future how five - year - old children will choose. Well, then the pressure might come, and maybe that's interesting and exciting. Power and power and good luck to us! But, ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry, I can't be very emotional. It is my task here to present to you what took place in the Commission, and the debate in the Commission, as I said, was exciting. On several days, we tried to shape our positions and make procedural decisions that we would present to you in this Chamber. And I'll introduce them. As Evgeny said, we have two lines in this amendment or proposal. We're talking about four or five words. § 2 of the draft act is an implementing provision concerning the date, and § 1 is the one where one point is amended. Indeed, there were two Commission meetings where we discussed them and took our decisions. The first was on 17 May this year, attended by Kalle Grünthal, Andrei Korobeinik, Oudekki Loone, Jevgeni Ossinovski, who was an alternate for Lauri Läänemets, myself, Paul Puustusmaa, Urmas Reinsalu, Marko Storm and Mart Võrguship. And just as Evgeny spoke very thoroughly and very enthusiastically about why this change was needed. He introduced the draft amendment to § 13 of the Citizenship Act to the Commission, explained that it concerns the amendments to the Citizenship Act that came into force in February 2020 About the application provision, if anyone asks why 17 February 2020 Evgeny stressed that also here. That's what Evgen said in the committee. This is a quote, it must not be mistaken: "The purpose of the previous government in making the amendment which entered into force in February 2020 was to make the circle of the beneficiaries of citizenship smaller and the explanatory memorandum to its draft (58 SE) stated that as of 12.08.2019 the draft deal concerned 1523 people who met the above-mentioned conditions for obtaining Estonian citizenship, 1393 of whom were citizens of the Russian Federation. " Evgeni also pointed out this controversial amendment to the Citizenship Act of the Russian Federation, or an apology, not an amendment, but Paragraph 19 (3) of the Citizenship Act of the Russian Federation, by which he justified this need. As we saw in this hall, it's not quite clear, and it really seems that Evgeny was trying to pull a little bag on us. But it's okay. Then Evgeni noted that as a result of the changes made by the previous government, there are quite a number of 'awaiting' Estonian citizens who cannot exercise their right to citizenship. There is nothing they can do to change this situation. According to Evgen, this was a politically vile step: it is a word-writing and it gives people the impression that they can become an Estonian citizen, but in fact they cannot become an Estonian citizen. Well, about such a summary. He then explained that the present draft solves this problem by repealing Paragraph 13 (42) of the Citizenship Act, which states that a minor wishing to be a citizen must provide proof of the surrender of citizenship of another country. If this provision were repealed, this means that those minors to whom the Estonian state has already granted the right to become a simplified Estonian citizen would actually become Estonian citizens and would no longer need to provide any evidence of the abandonment of citizenship of another state. He pointed out that there would probably be a question of how to solve the double citizenship problem in this draft, which he stressed here today as well. § 3 (1) of the Citizenship Act states that Estonia generally has a ban on double citizenship and if a person has received several citizenships as a minor, he or she must give up the citizenship of either Estonia or another state within three years of becoming 18 years of age. According to the draft, possession of several citizenships is possible until the age of age. Key moment! The representative of the Ministry of the Interior, Ruth Annus, also spoke at the Commission. That was his argument. Ruth Annus said that each country has a sovereign right to design its own citizenship policy and states do not interfere with each other's citizenship policy. The sovereign right to design its citizenship policy also means that Estonia cannot make its citizenship policy dependent on the citizenship policy of another country. The Ministry of the Interior is of the opinion that a person must not be double-citizen. If another country frees a person from his or her citizenship, he or she will be able to obtain Estonian citizenship. Ruth Annus also noted that in Estonia minors can acquire double citizenship by birth. The parents are usually of different nationality, one of the parents is an Estonian citizen. It is also possible to obtain double citizenship in such a way that one of the parents of a minor applies for Estonian citizenship under general conditions. To do so, the parent must meet certain requirements, pass an examination of Estonian language at least at B1, pass an examination of knowledge of the Constitution and Citizenship Act, have lived in Estonia for at least eight years and, among other things, take an oath to be loyal to the Republic of Estonia. The person can then also apply for Estonian citizenship for his/her child under 15 years of age. In such a case, this parent has a duty of loyalty to Estonia and it is justified that his or her child could have double citizenship until he or she reaches the age of adulthood. Ruth Annus said that Estonia has consistently not promised double citizenship because citizenship requires loyalty to its country. Estonian citizens have a duty of loyalty and a duty of national defence as compared to non-citizens, which results from the Constitution. Citizenship assumes that a person generally shares the basic values of the country of nationality as well as the political starting points. If the countries of nationality have significantly different fundamental values, a person will inevitably exercise the rights of a national of one country from the point of view of the fundamental values of another country. Man can only have one view of the world, not a different view of the world for each country. This is also one reason why Estonia has not consistently promised double citizenship. Ruth Annus also pointed out the fundamental constitutional problem that there is a ban on the withdrawal of Estonian citizenship from birth citizens in the Constitution and therefore there are persons in Estonia who have double citizenship. They do not behave legally, but they can continue with double citizenship, because the Constitution does not allow the citizenship acquired by birth to be taken away. At the same time, the Citizenship Act clearly states that an Estonian citizen cannot be at the same time as the citizenship of another state. He also pointed out the exception set out in the current law. The reference is then § 13 41 of the Citizenship Act, which allows minors to acquire Estonian citizenship and does not require the minor to fulfil any conditions other than the fact that the other state will exempt them from citizenship. These minors don't have to pass any exams. It is sufficient that one parent applies for citizenship for his or her child. The decision on the acquisition of nationality shall take effect when the minor has been released from his or her nationality by another State. I said that citizenship policy is based on two principles: one is ius sanguini, i.e. the acquisition of citizenship by parents, and the other is ius soli, i.e. citizenship is acquired by place of birth. These international principles have also been taken as a basis in Estonia. Estonian citizenship policy is based on the first, or bloodright, acquired citizenship. At the same time, Estonia has linked its citizenship policy to other principles, i.e. the principle of citizenship acquired on the basis of the right of birth, and this has caused many misunderstandings and confusion. In my opinion, Estonia could rather be more specific in its citizenship policy, and the exception that allows a person to have two citizenships is not right. In this respect, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs could consider adjusting the Constitution, as citizenship policy could be clear, concrete and understandable. I noted that, as far as draft 329 is concerned, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party is against it. Then I asked the Dose why the Government of the Republic gave up its opinion on Bill 309. Ruth Annus replied that giving up the Government of the Republic's opinion was a political decision. Jevgeni Ossinovski, for his part, stated that, as far as he knew, the Minister of the Interior had sent a letter to the State Chancellery on 10 March, which included a proposal by the Minister of the Interior not to form a position on the draft 309 to the Government of the Republic. The Government of the Republic therefore followed the proposal of the Minister of the Interior. Jevgeni Ossinovski also found that the interest of the Estonian state could be that children living in Estonia would grow as Estonian citizens, and it does not matter what their children's parents want for their children. Estonia's long-term interest could be that all people living permanently in Estonia would have a relationship with Estonia based on citizenship. Jevgeni Ossinovski also noted that a wider list of cases where a person does not have to give up the citizenship of another country in order to gain Estonian citizenship was offered in his time. One option was that if, for reasons beyond the control of the person, he was unable to give up the citizenship of another country, so that the Estonian state would not require it. This change, of course, did not find any support in its time. Urmas Reinsalu said that Jevgeni Ossinovski indicated that the number of minors who could benefit from simplified citizenship under the current Citizenship Act was about 130 and asked whether the number referred to was correct according to the Ministry of the Interior. Ruth Annus replied that, as of 12 August 2019, the change made by the previous government affected about 1,500 people, and there were just under 1,400 people left, who were then citizens of the Russian Federation. That was also the factual fact that was referred to here. Urmas Reinsalu also noted that this change in the previous government has been in force for a little over a year and asked how many people have exercised the right granted to them during this period or how much Estonian citizenship has thereby gained. Dawn Bee replied that, as of today, 59 people have applied for citizenship under this provision and ten of them have received citizenship. For the rest, the granting of citizenship has not yet entered into force, as children are still nationals of another country. Among the 49 children against whom the decision to grant citizenship has not entered into force, 37 citizens of the Russian Federation, ten citizens of Ukraine, one Lithuanian national, one Portuguese national. Andrei Korobeinik found that he considered the bill 309 to be a very good draft, because the Estonian state should not be strict in granting its citizenship. There could be a little more empathy in all of this. Toomas Kivimägi found that the general principle of Estonia is that double citizenship is not allowed and, if this general principle is changed, there must be very compelling arguments and this change should concern a considerable number of people. Kivimägi asked what was the reason for initiating this draft of the Social Democratic Party Group: is this the result of the enormous desire of people who could potentially gain citizenship as a result of this change? Kivimägi noted that it would not be reasonable to change the general principle of Estonian citizenship policy if a few dozen people wished to change, and asked how much interest there could be in such a change. It is now clear that those minors who submitted the application will have the right to Estonian citizenship when they are 18 years old. Jevgeni Ossinovski replied that two governments back in the coalition had an agreement that children, both of whose parents are citizens of the Russian Federation, could become Estonian citizens, and there were about 8000 of them at the time. This amendment was not made. At the time, the idea of a change had been proposed to stop the re-production of Russian Federation citizenship in Estonia. The fact that there are 100000 citizens of the Russian Federation in Estonia is not good for Estonia. Estonia could want us to have more Estonian citizens. The representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs also noted that, in addition to everything else, there is no way to underestimate the security threat arising from double citizenship of Estonia and Russia. Oudekki Loone said that Estonia should give a clear signal that Estonia wants all good people in Estonia to be recognised as members of its political community. Mr Reinsalu pointed out that he did not support this draft. It is neither practical nor reasonable to extend such an extensive citizenship policy, which would be created by the possibility of double citizenship. Jevgeni Ossinovski stated at the end that it is true that Estonia has an impact on citizenship policy due to a certain historical reality, which is reflected in decisions made in citizenship policy, but it is not so important. In a long view, Estonia should want those who are born and growing in Estonia to be Estonian citizens, and this is the purpose of the bill. Ruth Annus, representative of the Ministry of the Interior, said in her last word that the final stage was either a political decision to support the draft or not. The Ministry of the Interior considers that it is not reasonable to underestimate the security threat posed by the double citizenship of Estonia and Russia. One previous coalition agreement spoke of 8,000 young Estonian-Russian double citizens and the Ministry of the Interior considers this to be a serious security threat. Ruth Annus also noted that there is a significant difference, because persons with citizenship have political rights to shape the Estonian legal space, and non-citizens do not have these rights. However, social guarantees are indeed the same for all. Toomas Kivimägi proposed to continue the debate in the Commission on 18 May and after that the procedural decisions that were finally adopted were as follows. First, it was proposed that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 2 June; this decision was adopted by consensus. The second proposal was to reject the draft. There were 5 people in favour of rejection: Toomas Kivimägi, Paul Puustusmaa, Urmas Reinsalu, Marko Storm, Mart Võrklaev, against 3: Andrei Korobeinik, Oudekki Loone, Lauri Läänemets, there were no neutrals. The third decision was to appoint a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Paul Puustusmaa, i.e. I, that decision was consensual. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U398	Yeah, thanks! There are also questions, but we need to resolve the procedural issues first. Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U399	Thank you, Mr President. At the beginning of the presentation by a good colleague of Paul's, there was an verbal eruption that did not reflect in any way what was happening in the committee. I am also a member of the Commission. And it was such a tour of the mind of a good colleague Paul, which was undoubtedly entertaining, but it has nothing to do with what the Commission was discussing. Is there any way we can confirm in the verbatim that the Commission did not really discuss Paul's thinking? Otherwise, people will not get an adequate picture of what happened in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U400	Thank you. The Commission's report must convey to us, in the basic sense, what the Commission's debate was, but it does not have so strict restrictions under our Rules of Procedure that it cannot be introduced or extended. However, the note by my colleague Korobenik remains in the verbatim, and the people who will read it later understand that the first part of the rapporteur's story was not the subject of the Commission's debate. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U401	Thank you. I'll join the opinion of Andrei Korobenik. I had a really strange beginning to hear it. I was wondering if the whole protocol was made up of your opinions, Paul, and it's not like the protocol. But then you also reported the protocol powerfully, reading it quickly. That's all I wanted to say, I was very surprised that this happened.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U402	More is better than less. We had a situation here a few weeks ago where, again, the waitress did not want to talk at all about what happened in the Commission. At least at the moment, the Commission's debate came to us as well. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U403	I'd like to humanize this controversy. Paul is known as a person of eloquent, balanced orator style. I'm sorry I didn't hear that speech in the whole, but I think he... [[That's a lot of laughter in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U404	Can we get the microphone back?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U405	But now, if there was such a controversy that even a verbatim should be cancelled, somehow deleted mentally from Paul's position, I wouldn't want to agree with that. I think that this is the principle of a free mandate in Parliament, too, when it comes to the presentation by the Commission. Of course, a Member of the Commission must not make allegations about matters that have not taken place in the Commission, which are factually wrong, but in my opinion, Paul certainly did not do so in his speech. But maybe the President of the sitting will briefly say what was in Paul's speech that received such a criticism? For the sake of the verbatim also, a statement by the Members of Parliament would be fixed before the attempt to delete.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U406	Thank you. It's definitely not deleted from the verbogram. You can't do that and you can't do that. Before discussing the minutes of the Commission's sitting, there was an introduction from the point of view. This could, of course, be said during the negotiations, but it was an introduction. Andrei Korobenik, please, procedural.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U407	Thank you. Since Urmas probably arrived at the hall after I proposed, I will specify, for the sake of clarity, that I did not propose to delete anything. On the contrary, I asked you to mention that it was Paul's own opinion. I'm sure I'm against any kind of deletion.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U408	Got it. No, we're not going to erase it. But there's a lot of procedural discussion. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U409	Thank you, good vice chairman. I'm confused now. The Korobenik says he made a report, but he did make a report on the previous item. I don't think there can be two rapporteurs from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on one agenda. Or have I misunderstood something?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U410	Looks like you misunderstood. He was accused of proposing to delete something from the protocol, but he rejected it: he has not proposed it. That's the kind of discussion we've had here. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U411	I wasn't talking about erasing a technical operation, that is to say destroying a verb tape or, well, destroying a transcript of a text. And I didn't give that wish to good Andre. My point was that if there is an deletion in a mental sense, as part of a'revocation culture', then it might as well be done that Paul's speech as a whole does not qualify as a speech by a representative of the Commission. I think it does. And it was my turn to prove that the idea of protocol, as part of this speech should not be taken into account, I think, is not appropriate. That is why the President's explanation of this was also important. I think we need to deal with the report within the time frame given as a whole. There's no way, no matter how much anyone wants, to pull the slices out, even if these slices are maybe uncomfortable. I do not rule out that it has caused resentment or protest These arrows may have been too painful.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U412	Paul's about to have a word in the round of questions. But I said immediately in introductory terms that the rapporteur for the Commission must talk about what was in the Commission, but it is not prohibited to add comments or opinions on his side. And in our practice, I think we've seen and done this many times. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U413	Fortunately, now the line has reached the person who really listened to Paul Puustusmaa's speech, not to come and blaze, or to blow up just in case, either by defending or hoping to get hit. Paul made an introduction, worse than we've heard, better for sure, but it wasn't beyond comprehension. However, Paul made a very clear distinction in his speech when he began to present the Commission's minutes. He made it clear that okay, now I'm going to talk about what happened in the Commission. So there's no need to worry about a verbogram, so there's no point in getting nervous because nobody understands what Paul was talking about. It's all very clearly in the verbatim.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U414	Yeah, that's it. And now it's time for questions. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U415	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! This last waitress, who was, I listened to her for a long time, and I realized that the main problem is that the Russian citizenship law is simply one that does not allow it to be done. Did the Commission also clarify whether Estonia has a debt of honour to Russia, or is it something else that we should worry about? And did some other third countries sound? We cannot, after all, take the view that third countries within the meaning of the European Union are only limited to Russia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U416	Thank you, Tarmo! I mean, first of all, of course I thank Valdo too, Andrei, Heljo! And I certainly apologize to Nikita Bogoslovski for using her words. However, as regards whether other third countries were also discussed in the Commission and whether there was some kind of bond of honour, there was certainly no discussion in the Commission on this matter. There was no mention of a debt of honor. In the Commission, there was only talk of Russia's citizenship. That's what I said. But it wasn't a bond of honor.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U417	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U418	Thank you. As I understand it, alongside what happened in the Commission, you are also willing to give your opinions. My question is that if you do not come along with the idea of this bill in any way, will your goal, both the party and you personally, have to support more Russian citizens and stateless persons in Estonia. And my question is also what is the victory of the Estonian state in this case. In fact, we're losing the so-called Estonians.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U419	Thank you, Heljo, for a good question. But I am today, I suggest, three times emphasized such a strange word set as "quantitity" and "quality." I understand that, for some reason, the warlocks are very much on the road to having the Institute of Citizenship involved in quantity, not quality. But the point of our party is exactly the opposite! For us, the Institute of Citizenship is of value. It's a question of quality, and here we are like night and day with you, it's this thing. But as for the question of what is the victory of the Republic of Estonia, I think this is the victory. If citizenship has become a value, it is a great victory, it is not just a matter of form.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U420	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U421	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, good Paul! Surely the Social Democrats are also talking about values. We are talking about the fact that all children living here, who for some reason are not citizens of the Republic of Estonia, could be and use the values that the Estonian state and Estonian citizenship offer them. In fact, studies and integration monitoring also show that even the parents of children who are not citizens for any reason can have very different reasons, some people must not have Estonian citizenship for certain reasons, want them to grow as Estonian citizens and acquire the same values we are talking about. We cannot assume the values we acquire from minors. How, in your opinion, and perhaps you also discussed this issue in the Commission, such non-nationalisation of children, their desire or that of their parents, affects the motivation for integration?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U422	Thank you, Eduard! That's the question I could make you an offer right now. You're in the wrong party because you're the first one to talk about values. When we take the Commission sitting, we talked at the Commission meeting about increasing the number of citizens. We talked about the problem of the large number of stateless persons that we need to reduce the number of stateless persons. It wasn't about values, it was about quantity and empathy. So come over to our side.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U423	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U424	Oh, Paul, you still have a very peculiar understanding of the meaning of the term "value." This is also a position of value that I presented both in the Commission and in this Chamber today. I believe that Estonia should strive to ensure that all people living in Estonia have a relationship with Estonia based on Estonian citizenship. It's a choice of value. There is no doubt that it is a choice in itself to say that we prefer to have as many citizens of the Russian Federation as possible here. I don't think that's right. But if that's what your party thinks, it's a choice of value without doubt. If you don't use the word "value," it doesn't mean you don't show up with values. It's a little more complicated than you might think at first glance. Could you open up a little more views on the Commission? You spoke of the fact that the service of Estonian citizenship to these young children now actually poses a security threat to Estonia. What's that about?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U425	Thank you, too. I mean, first of all, we can still discuss it with you. We'll probably stick to different points of view. When you said that all people could have Estonian citizenship, I think it is not worth; it is still a matter of quantity. However, as regards how much has been said in the Commission about the security threat, we have repeatedly been up in the Commission, but in other situations. When we talk about this bill, specifically draft 329, we did not have much to talk about. Yes, I did, as I said, a representative of the Interior Department a few times. I'll see if there's a list of facts here, but I suspect we didn't have a list of facts. There were simply assessments and these assessments were formulated in such a way that we must not forget the issue of security. Yeah, there was no more fact assessment, if I'm not mistaken.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U426	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U427	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Can it not be that this bill undermines the fundamentals of the Estonian state by undermining the principle of the continuity of the citizenry and thereby undermining all aspects of citizenship policy that are not subject to bureaucratic control or arbitrational decisions of different institutions? This would perhaps reduce the sacral role of Estonia as a nation state.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U428	Thank you very much. I would rather say that if our citizenship policy goes a softer path, if double citizenship becomes the norm, and if we no longer care about citizenship as a value-based matter, but talk about the number, talk about quantity, then the danger has already been created.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U429	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U430	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I still did not get a clear picture of why our Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Riigikogu now have to look for solutions because Russian citizenship policy is like this. My question is: are we going to bring up another country? After all, today we have only just dealt with the agreement with the Republic of Mauritius on income tax to avoid double taxation. Should we pay attention to their citizenship policy as well? If there's a business relationship, I guess somebody's gonna go see where his property is, who's gonna take care of it there. And the women of Estonia are all beautiful, of course they come from there. Shouldn't we make Estonia a complex driveway like Odines has already suggested that everyone born here is Estonians?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U431	Thank you, Tarmo! See, in fact, this was not mentioned in the Commission's debate. We're still talking like a clue, or we're saying that we practically talked to the Russian background. This was inevitable because this was simply the case for the debate. But broadly speaking, when we take on the social objective and when we talk about third countries, we cannot expect that we are talking only about Russia. Of course, we are also talking about other countries, so in this sense also Mauritius, why not?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U432	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U433	I listened to this debate in the group room, as well as all the trambours they were trying to spin around Paul's person. And I commend Paul, your patience, your diplomacy and your kindness, your goodness in all this. My question is very simple: do you agree with me that it is actually a draft of Kremlin's trolls, which has only one objective: to completely demolish the principles of Estonian citizenship policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U434	I agree with you, Mart!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U435	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U436	Thank you. I don't think Mr. Kruus Mountain heard that story. He got confused. But maybe he heard and got confused, that's what happens to him from time to time. [[Something is being called out of the hall.]] We were talking about the citizenship of the Russian Federation. I explained why we are mainly talking about this, because the children who belong to this target group are over 90% of the Russian Federation's nationality. It is not by chance why we talked about this in the Commission. But I'd ask you that. Since you agreed with the previous position, can you explain what this change in the principle of citizenship policy is in the situation where we have a citizenship law, § 3 (1), which says that minors have the right to have several citizenships until they reach the age of 18? What changes does this bill, which takes away an operative sentence, make in this principle? Could you explain this more balancedly, not politically, but as a representative of the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U437	Thank you, Evgeny! Look, there is no other way to answer here, unless it is through political propaganda. I must say that, unfortunately, the law on our citizenship is not perfect at all. There is room for change here how much more, and we should perhaps think, as I referred to earlier, about a much more concrete and perhaps more value-based citizenship policy as a whole. But now, when it comes to the Commission's approach, it is simply not possible to answer this question on the basis of the Commission's debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U438	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U439	Thank you. I have a procedural remark for the President of the sitting first. Perhaps you will remind colleagues that the Estonian language has been agreed in the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia as a working language, and it could also be used as a basis for interjections. There is one official language in Estonia and we have agreed that we will speak this language in this Chamber. Sometimes we make a difference to the guests, but also with a very long tooth that they can speak in another language. But the question to the waitress is still about quality and quantity. Good waitress, I don't quite understand. On the one hand, we here a few hours ago were worried that Estonia's demographic situation was not the best, and on the other, we are concerned that we have children born and growing in Estonia, who could be granted citizenship under certain conditions, and under very limited conditions. You call it a huge quantitative approach. In my opinion, this is a very qualitative, very chosen approach. Why are you labeling it as a quantitative approach? Do you want us to have two different citizenships: these high-quality citizens and those of a less high-quality country? Can we get to that point, such a solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U440	Thank you, Indrek! First of all, a note concerning the use of a foreign language in case you referred to my words. (Martin Helme: "No, he was referring to Mardi. ") By the way, I also said one disgusting anglicism, and I am very embarrassed about it because I hate anglicism. But okay. As for why I'm so obsessed with this, first of all, it's a bad habit in our society to go deeper and deeper and break everything. That's it. A finger by finger, a piece by piece, you give away some things, and then you wonder how everything's so bad. And this is one simple example that we are still weakening citizenship policy, weakening it, weakening it. By the way, our citizenship policy as a whole, although we are talking about this as a very conservative phenomenon, is not really very conservative. We'll hold on to it with ten nails, but it'll be turned weaker and weaker all the time. This bill is one example that we again want to turn off this screw weaker. Don't! On the contrary, I say we have to go on a harder turn-off road. It's a matter of principle.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U441	Now there are some procedural questions. I would point out, by the way, that Latin was used here before. What do we do now? Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U442	Yeah, the sting was on me. With this foreign language, this Russian-language intervention, I wanted to draw the attention of the initiators to the fact that, sooner or later, there are inevitably two working languages in this Chamber: Estonian and Russian.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U443	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U444	I really do have a procedural question. I noticed that Indrek Saar asked a procedural question, and under it he also asked a substantive question, to which the rapporteur replied, not the chairman of the meeting. It's like mush and you're all messed up. And I ask the chairman of the meeting: did I understand correctly that the question about the floor was whether it was a draft of the Kremlin's trolls, and the waitress said yes. Is that really the case? That is not in line with the Rules of Procedure, as far as I know, if we are discussing such a draft. And then I have a substantive question for the rapporteur using Indrek Saare's approach to the Rules of Procedure Act. § 8 of the Constitution states that every child whose parents one of the parents is an Estonian citizen has the right to Estonian citizenship at birth. Maybe you could think about it. We're talking citizenship law, but the Constitution says so. Both of my parents have Estonian citizenship; it does not match this provision of the Constitution. Has this matter been discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, or what is your own position?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U445	I will first respond to this procedural remark. Indeed, Indrek Saar first mentioned the procedural question, then took it down, put the question in its place. Since he first made a procedural remark during this same speech and then went over to the question, I gave him more time first. And secondly, since I felt that this procedural question did not really expect a substantive answer, I did not begin to answer it. But, Paul, please respond!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U446	Thank you. On the one hand, a simple answer to the question concerning § 8 of the Constitution is once again. When we ask how much of the meaning of § 8 of the Constitution we have discussed in the Commission and whether we have discussed it, I say, of course, it is not. We have no reason to do so, nor have there been grounds for this, although, yes, if someone from our good colleagues comes up with a good idea that there is something wrong with this rule, it would be well-founded to deal with it in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. It would be! But it didn't exist. But right now, considering the wording of this rule, as you said, maybe it might seem a little suspicious. But during my legal practice, I have never noticed the problem of this norm, so I think it's more of a ball that may not need a very deep analysis right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U447	Thank you. We've run out of questions. Thanks to the waitress! Now we can go to the negotiations. Urmas Reinsalu of the Fatherland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U448	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U449	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U450	Some kind of mash and cabbages are here. The committee rapporteur answered the procedural questions and the President commented on the substantive questions. But this bill is like a wrong bill. It is like an addition, an amendment to amend the Russian Citizenship Act, as it is currently dealing with such issues. The principle that is paying in Estonia and must remain paying is that we must not allow double citizenship to sneak into this room again. It was very clear that the amendment to the Citizenship Act in the previous government had its own human sentiment, practical sentiment, but the principle was very important. And this principle was that we do not change the fundamental principles of Estonian citizenship policy. And now they want to blow up the foundations of Estonian citizenship policy. The Era Party of the Fatherland categorically disagrees with this. This step-by-step introduction of double citizenship in Estonia... Take care of the population map of Estonia, also by municipalities! Take the potential situation where in Estonia, in some municipalities, we can essentially have the majority of residents in a third country, i.e. as it turned out here, Russian citizens. Our principle must be in all matters relating to citizenship, and here we certainly have a very different fundamental understanding from that of the Social Democrats that citizenship is not a human right. Citizenship is a matter of political power and responsibility in this country. This is a political question, a question of power first and foremost, and this means that the definition of citizenship in Estonia must be based on the principles on which we have restored our nation state. Undoubtedly, Estonian citizenship can be acquired by naturalisation. There are much less stringent thresholds for granting citizenship to underage children. They have the opportunity to acquire it in other ways for children, minors. The Estonian state has also set out a number of possibilities for obtaining citizenship in an easier way in its highly modulating citizenship policy. The principle, however, is one and clear: we do not create double citizenship in Estonia. Unfortunately, the path of this law, this shalemine, is precisely to create thousands of people with double citizenship in Estonia. We cannot in any way find that it is in the interests of the Estonian state in a one-year, ten-year, one hundred-year or two hundred-year perspective. The previous speaker pointed out that the Citizenship Act needed to be repaired. Anyone who opens the Estonian Citizenship Act can see that the Citizenship Act consists of a large number of superscripted sections. And the reason is not that the lawyers have not been able to write it clean, but it is a wall of defence to ensure that the current foundation in our citizenship policy is not demolished into pieces, but that we keep the principles on which we have defined Estonian citizenship policy in the mid-1990s. The principle of prostitution must not be given up. But this bill exactly contains an attack. Social democrats must be given credit; they have been consistent in these attacks. We rightly wonder why these plans have not attacked Estonian citizenship from different directions and established double citizenship. For a very simple reason: because the Fatherland Party has not let it. Now, to speak further, I congratulate the current coalition for not proposing any plans to change citizenship policy, at least in a formulated way, much less to change the fundamental principles of citizenship policy. The Centre Party has had to withdraw from its positions in principle, and the Reform Party has had to retreat from its positions, which, as you remember, promised double citizenship with a rather broad curve. In this Chamber, we are faced with a situation where the Social Democrats have put a very insidious fork into a power union. But the national interests of Estonia may be the victim of this fork. In this situation, where two coalition partners are in a conflicting position, I think it is reasonable and mature to assume that we are rejecting this draft in its entirety. The Isamaa Party is ready to cooperate fully and comprehensively with the Estonian Reform Party in order to achieve the rejection of this draft at first reading and to give such an important signal in this mess, in this porridge that we currently have in Estonia's government. Then there is at least one ray of hope: we are not going to break citizenship policy. All the other things, like a mouse chewing on plywood, are already gone. Defence forces will be reduced, things and steps that will certainly not be in line with the national interests of the Estonian state will take place. Let the basic principles of citizenship policy be one surest and shelter for the people of Estonia in this huge danger. Hands off the principles of Estonian citizenship policy! The Reform Party, the EKRE and the Fatherland, here we form such a national line and push this bill where it belongs. This is the moment. Let's create clarity in this confusion, in our hands this is an opportunity! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U451	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U452	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, The speech by Mr Reinsalu can be signed by the members of our group with two hands. The question is very simple. The question is that as a result of the undisturbed will of the Estonian people, the Estonian nation state has been born and it is being attacked, it is being redefined. And in recent years, more and more brutally, more and more masks tearing down. There has been a saying here, I remember, it came from people under the window in the previous Riigikogu, that the nation state is some kind of dystopia. This dangerous dystopia that nations have caused wars in history and so on. But it really isn't. In fact, citizenship is the basis for the functioning of all countries. And even if the European Union you love dearly should ever change, I hope it does not change, I will do my best not to become a superstate, then this European Union will also have its own citizenship policy, which will delineate: these people have these rights and these obligations. This is essentially a citizenship policy. Now the aim is to create a situation where the small Estonian people are literally taken away from their feet with double citizenship. We have a situation where it depends on where we look over the Narva River can throw a stone. At Kreenholm, you can go from stone to stone, from island to island to Russian side, now occupied by the Jaanilinn. And in this situation we say that there is no problem, let them be both Russian citizens and Estonian citizens at the same time. And then Vladimir Vladimirovich tells us that he also has the right to defend his citizens by means of a weapon, if he considers it valid in a voluntaristic or imperialist manner, or in any foreign word we use. And our fools in this hall don't know how to bite that nut. Of course, we are so sympathetic and liberal world citizens that we welcome all who are tortured and afflicted, whether in Africa, Asia, Russia, Belarus, Ukraine, Latin America! All slum people, all poor people, all drug cartel fugitives, all drug dealers too, come to Estonia! Estonia is a great place, Estonia welcomes you with open arms. We had a debate here today on population policy. The representative of the Commission said that I do not remember whether he used the word 'luckily' or not that the population has shrunk and is shrinking, but immigration compensates for it. That's right: immigration compensates. Who is compensated by immigration? Working hands, maybe. But not Estonians, not unborn Estonians and Estonian citizens, are not compensated. And now they want to start making everyone Estonian citizens almost in order. I can't! I can't, I can't! You can't go along with this. It is not possible to go along with this, because we have been chosen by the people to represent the interests of Estonian citizens. When 30 years have passed and many times there have been social democrats in the government, and they have not been able to ensure that the Russian national or Ukrainian national or Georgian national, whatever nations we have here, people... Can I have an extension?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U453	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U454	... has not wanted, has not had the means, has not had the system to learn the Estonian language and has indeed to associate itself with toenails, fingernails, thinking with Estonia, then it is not the fault of the Estonian people, but the bad work of elected politicians of Estonian citizens, without doing the job. And that shadow falls on you because you have been in government a great deal. During these decades, you have been in the government for long periods and should have dealt with this subject much more effectively, but not come here and put a tank mine under one foot and an anti-personnel mine under the other foot, and then say that now, friends, lift your feet and then we will all blow up together with our citizenship policy. We do not agree with that! We're not gonna step on your mines, we're gonna dig these mines out, and we're gonna throw them outside. Deminate them yourself! And that's our message. This bill is a draft of Kremlin imperialist road paving. And this bill cannot be supported. The Estonian Conservative People's Party will vote in favour of concluding this draft and against this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U455	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U456	Thank you. I had to go to the theatre at 7:00, but since the earlier points of this debate lasted for quite a while, I could not go there because of the work of the Riigikogu. Fortunately, Urmas Reinsalu came to the remote and compensated me with the artistic experience I'm missing in the theater. It's more serious with Mart Helme. Urmas knows this bill, has really read it and understands the nuances, he is just such a propagandist stand-up promoter. Mr Helme stood out when he was Minister of the Interior because he had not read any draft laws in his field and when he presented them here, he was only able to express general, terrafaretic ideological views that did not concern the substance of the draft. You may remember how he presented them here with a great arch. That's also true in this case. But for the sake of the verbatim, I'm gonna have to disprove something. This draft does not really concern migration issues. I understand that this is very hearty for the EKRE members. I understand that and it is entirely legitimate to deal with these issues. This bill has nothing to do with migration. It was referred to here that you will see Mr Putin coming to help the citizens of the Russian Federation if he wants to, and we will encourage it with this draft. There are already 100,000 citizens of the Russian Federation in Estonia and this draft does not give any person the opportunity to become additional citizens of the Russian Federation. This bill concerns children who were born in Estonia, but are already citizens of the Russian Federation. The question is whether these children could have a relationship with Estonia based on Estonian citizenship, which they do not currently have. And I really believe, in this situation, I agree that indeed, one of the bottlenecks in our citizenship policy is probably not planned and intentional, but the consequence is that the number of citizens of the Russian Federation in Estonia has increased to 100000 in 20 years. This is not in the interests of the Estonian state, I agree with that. In fact, these small changes that we have taken over the years have been aimed at reducing the number of citizens of the Russian Federation and more citizens of the Republic of Estonia in Estonia in Estonia. National populists and, unfortunately, the patriots have also opposed it, and in doing so, particularly strongly beat this patriotic drum, so that all the proposals to give Estonian citizenship to the people of Estonia are in Putin's interest. However, because we have 100,000 citizens of the Russian Federation as a result of our citizenship policy, there is no security threat. It's always been surprising to me. But as skilled a rhetorician as Mr Reinsalu can, of course, explain all these things very beautifully. I am reminding the people by the people I am thinking about the Riigikogu Hall now, although perhaps it also attracts wider social attention, it can never be ruled out when speaking in the Riigikogu that the principles of citizenship policy are not amended by this bill. I'd like some more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U457	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U458	The first change of principles took place with the Reform Party in 2016. Indeed, the IRL was against it, so it is legitimate to say that you do not support this position. At the time, the change in principle was that minors may be in double citizenship in Estonia, which is a general rule and is valid as such. We don't want to change that general rule. We do not want to alleviate it or tighten it up; we want to work within this same general rule. Secondly, both the EKRE and the Fatherland were parties who voted in favour of what Paul Puustusmaa called a very bad development. That is to say, that children who are citizens of the Russian Federation receive Estonian citizenship without examination. This amendment, which entered into force on 17 October 2020, is indeed a change to the principle of citizenship policy. I think it was a good change, both the males and the EKRE men and some women voted in favour of it. And, of course, we are working on this draft within the framework of the decision that you have adopted and supported. We are not extending these rights; we are actually simply making this change possible. But you really did relax and relax the principles of citizenship policy, as you say. Mr Puustusmaa said that, in his view, the rules should be strengthened, the exception to double citizenship or multiple citizenship for children should be ruled out. At least this is how I understood that this standard should be tightened up rather than relaxed. Once again, you could remember that you yourself voted in favour of this opportunity. The only party in this Parliament that did not seem to have supported it was the Reform Party. I do not think that this was a wise position for them, but it has at least been consistent in the last parliamentary term. And, Mr Reinsalu, the year was 2016 when the previous government was formed and we agreed to give 8 000 children Estonian citizenship without any further demands. It was a very good proposal, and the entire IRL supported it. See, Mr. Ratas nods, he agrees. You supported it in all your collections, and we sat with you and Mrs. Dosage upstairs in the working groups and put together a nice draft. Yes, but at one point you realized that you should withdraw from previous agreements using the political economy. But, hey, stop this magnificent rhetoric at least! You've been so plastic about citizenship, at least take it easy. There's no point in coming up like this when you're really ready to make reasonable agreements when you have to. I say, reasonable agreements, because they were very good. In fact, these 8000 children should have been granted Estonian citizenship and should continue to do so. I'm sure that's where we'll end up, of course. I guess there has been a desire in recent years to play this rhetorical theater in some way. But in reality, we all understand that in the long term, it is in our common interest that all children born and raised in Estonia are Estonian citizens, Estonian citizens, so that our children grow up like this, rather than giving them away into foreign citizenship. This is certainly not in Estonia's interest. You'll get to that one day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U459	Mart Helme has a request for a rejoinder. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U460	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Yes, since the previous speaker well knows which drafts I read and which ones I do not read, let him know that I do not really read the drafts, but I understand them. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Unlike Ossinovski, who reads, but doesn't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U461	Does Urmas Reinsalu wish for a rejoinder?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U462	Evgeny Ossinovski could have gone to the theater instead of that speech. But there was a meaningful Freudian slip that sounded from his lips in the speech chair of the Riigikogu. In fact, he said that the purpose of the drafters was to give 8 000 people citizenship and to continue to do so. That is exactly the core of this insidious bill. Citizenship policy is based on certain dogmas and dogmas are truths that are not disputed because they are based on the whole concept of our citizenship policy. And now, in this form of mass double citizenship, it is precisely citizenship policy that breaks down a dogma. This dogma is undoubtedly dressed in a so-called humanistic robe, because it concerns children, affects minors, and therefore it is certainly easier to demonstrate in public. However, the fact is, as Mr Ossinovski pointed out, that the aim of this draft is to crush this citizenship policy dogma, to initially give 8 000 citizens citizenship in the light of the principle of double citizenship and to continue to do so. In other words, in Estonia, we are in a situation in which, in principle, it is possible to construct such a concept that the descendants of third-country nationals in this country, by obtaining citizenship in an easier way, can be in double universal, in fact double citizenship, and undoubtedly in the principle of equal treatment. And it is not the responsibility of Mr Ossinovski, but the responsibility of the Supreme Court in the supervision of the Constitution. The interpretation of its standards could certainly open the door to major changes. This is a dogma you want to blow up with this sneaky mine in this Chamber today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U463	Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to see that the parliamentary debate in its best juice is under way. Mr Ossinovski has the wish of the rejoinder.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U464	Thank you. Well, Mr. Reinsalu could have missed the second act, but the pace was ugly. It got technical. But I want to stress that both you and your partymates actually agreed to grant 8,000 children Estonian citizenship without exams in November 2016. I think it was a good and right deal. It's nothing to be ashamed of. That you changed your mind for political reasons can be explained, but it is not worth denying that this was indeed the case. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U465	Mr. Seeder, do you have a procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U466	No, thank you! No, it's not.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U467	Thank you! Then we can close the negotiations and go to the proposal of the lead committee. The lead committee has proposed to reject draft 329 at first reading, which we need to vote on. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the commission's proposal to reject the draft Act amending § 13 of the Citizenship Act, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group and Riigikogu member Raimond Kaljulaid. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U468	58 members supported the rejection, 11 against and 1 abstention. The bill has been rejected.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U469	Our ninth item on the agenda today is the development plan for the Estonian language for the years 2021 to 2035. Before we go to this procedure, I will remind you how we deal with it. First of all, the Minister for Education and Science, Liina Kersna, will receive the floor for a presentation of up to 20 minutes. Then Signe Kivil, a member of the Committee on Culture, will have a presentation for up to 20 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to each of the two rapporteurs. Please, Minister of Education and Science Liina Kersna!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U470	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy members of the Riigikogu and everyone else in the hall! I am very pleased to present to you the Estonian language development plan, which sets out the goals and trends of the Estonian language field for the years 2021 to 2035. The development plan has been developed in cooperation between the Ministry of Education and Research and the Estonian Language Council, and many institutions and experts involved in the language field have contributed to its completion. The development plan for the language area is a plan combining ministries and institutions in terms of objectives and activities, which we manage from the Ministry of Education and Research, but others contribute to its implementation. The proliferation of language speeches, debates and opinions that have recently been held in public provides evidence that the language landscape does not leave anyone indifferent and requires further attention and intervention. However, what to consider, why and how to intervene, we provide answers to this in the language development plan. Although the language field may seem to be quite abstract and spontaneous, it is specific and systematic enough. In the past, language activities were more related to education, philology, literature and communication, in particular by performing the functions of a communication tool. Today, the language sector has other links, such as entrepreneurship, information technology, law, medicine and data science. The development of technology has significantly broadened the boundaries of the language field. According to the Ethnology database, Estonian is one of 50 languages with higher education and science in their own language. Estonian is one of 100 languages with language technology support and one of up to 30 languages with effective speech synthesis. Thanks to the fact that Estonian is among the 24 official languages of the European Union, the modern Estonian language has been developed with new terms. Studies in linguistics and language status provide sufficient proof that Estonian is sustainable and has a high status. You can safely claim that Estonian is one of the most advanced cultural languages and in this sense is ranked among the best 1% in the world. In a globalizing world, however, this knowledge gives us no reason to give in to our efforts. On the contrary, we need to address the three cornerstones of language development and sustainability even more systematically and effectively. These are reputation and status, language infrastructure and language learning. In this context, the general objective of the Estonian language development plan is worded as follows: "To ensure the vitality and functioning of the Estonian language as a primary language in all areas of life, to guarantee everyone the right and opportunity to use the Estonian language in the Republic of Estonia, to maintain and strengthen the status, reputation and cultural space of the Estonian language and to value the ability to speak other languages." The substantive structure of the development plan is divided into three parts. Firstly, language status and reputation, or attitudes towards language, and the legal position of the language. Secondly, language infrastructure, or our language park, with dictionaries, corps, linguistics and language technology. And third, of course, language learning and its supporting activities. As the development plan has set goals for development, I will focus on the main problems in the language field and how to solve them. The reputation and status of the Estonian language guide people's linguistic choices. Although Estonian is a world-class cultural language, Estonians value it as a bearer of national identity, the state of the Estonian language is not without problems. Youth language attitudes, especially in the common media and digital environments, tend towards other languages, particularly English. When we acquire Estonian dialectal languages, the intergenerational bond is breaking, although in the public space we meet dialectal languages before, see more. There are areas where the use of the Estonian language has decreased, and there have been additional jobs in the labour market, where the requirements for the proficiency of the Estonian language have not been regulated. The overall loss of linguistic diversity and changes in the labour market may weaken the use of the Estonian language. Among the other native- or native-language population, Estonian language skills have not improved significantly in the last ten years. In the development plan for the language area, we have set the goal of increasing the status of the Estonian language and strengthening its reputation. To this end, the use, study and study of Estonian should be popularized and encouraged. The importance of the Estonian language as a bearer of identity and the timeliness of the legislation in the field of language must be monitored. The development plan includes activities that encourage the use of Estonian language, including dialect languages, and popularize language learning. Support will be given to activities that contribute more to the principles of a clear language, including systematic and science-based language care. The monitoring of compliance with the language law will be enhanced in such a way as to support and not discourage language learning. Language infrastructure and language technology support language use. We have already achieved quite a lot in the development of language infrastructure and language technology. All language resources, language resources and language technology tools created by the state are available free of charge to the users of Estonian language. Top-level language technology support already allows Estonian to be used in several digital environments. If we are already state-of-the-art, what are the following trends? It is easy to say that if the computer was previously dealt with how to teach Estonian, then it is now dealt with how the computer would learn the Estonian language better. In order to encourage this self-study, a language corps that is as large and of high quality as possible is needed. Language bottlenecks are the uneven quality of the corps or even the lack of them. In international comparison, important components of language technology, such as the control of grammar in Estonian, are missing or still in development. Estonia also needs effective coordination of term work, as the layer of the vocabulary changes as quickly as the respective specialties. Since language is constantly changing, it is clear that we cannot allow any stagnation in the development of language infrastructure. In the development plan for the language area, we have set a goal: the study of Estonian is internationally high and the language infrastructure is innovative, open and diverse, and the skills in Estonian are developed in a coordinated manner. To this end, investment in language infrastructure must be increased and the development of Estonian language science as a direction for research and development in the language field must be supported. We will create better opportunities to develop language infrastructure in cooperation with businesses, higher education institutions and research institutions. We will enhance the term work so that the new terms can be quickly recycled and the Estonian language can be easily used in all disciplines. We take Estonian language technology to all users in both digital environments and smart devices. We support the development and learning of Estonian sign language, including using language technology tools. Third, language training. The subjects of language learning are divided between two sectoral development plans: language and education. This means that achieving the objectives set in language learning requires interdisciplinary cooperation. Part of the education sector is the organisation of the education system, the volume of studies and the follow-up of teachers. The framework of the Estonian language development plan is based on the creation of language support tools, improving the language skills of educators, supporting the professional development of language teachers and integrating language technology into language learning. Thematically, language learning activities cover three major topics in the language development plan: Estonian as a native language, Estonian as a second language and multilingualism. There are a number of problems to be solved here, but I would like to mention the most important ones. Trends in the globalising world also put pressure on the Estonian language. We must therefore pay attention to the high level of proficiency in the Estonian language of native learners. It is not in line with society's expectations how the language of education in Estonian schools has been solved so far. The Estonian language skills of Estonian residents must be sufficient to enable them to acquire education and participate in the labour market without hindrance. Studies show that Estonian language skills have increased a little, but not enough, among the other native or native-language population in the last ten years. The need for adult language learning is very high, but language learning opportunities do not meet the needs of all learners. Estonia also fails to meet the European Union's recommended goal of knowing two other foreign languages in addition to its mother tongue. This means that nearly half of adults' knowledge of a foreign language is limited to one language. For a small country, the ability to communicate in other languages is a matter of strategic importance, which is why we want to complement the foreign language skills of Estonian residents. Assumptions have been made for this purpose, as Estonian residents are aware that it is useful to know at least two foreign languages in the context of the labour market. To grasp all these topics, we have set in the development plan of the language area the goal that all Estonians and Estonians living abroad can speak Estonian and value the skills of other languages. To this end, we plan the following activities: We enhance the teaching of Estonian language, support the development and implementation of the Estonian-language education development plan. We provide language technology support for the preparation of educational materials. In cooperation with higher education institutions, we develop principles for the language and internationalisation of higher education. We organise the teaching of the adult Estonian language as a second language and ensure that Estonians living abroad learn the Estonian language. To sum it up. Given the assumption that the economic and cultural capacity of Estonian society will increase, we want to achieve the following results in 2035. First of all, the reputation of the Estonian language is increasing among people with both Estonian native language and other native or native language, and the proportion of people using the Estonian language in the population has increased. Secondly, the main components of language technology have been developed at internationally comparable levels. Thirdly, the term work is effective and is centrally coordinated. Fourthly, adult education in Estonian as a second language is organised in the country as a whole and is based on the needs of the learner. Fifthly, the self-esteemed foreign language skills of Estonian residents have improved and foreign languages are studied in many different forms. In order to ensure the vitality and functioning of the Estonian language, we will carry out various development activities within the framework of the development plan in the next 15 years. We develop language infrastructure to keep language technology internationally competitive. We strengthen the image of the Estonian language and solve the challenges of multilingualism and the language of education. I very much hope that you will support the objectives and activities set out in the development plan for the language area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U471	Good Minister, there are also questions for you. Initiating Eduard Odines.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U472	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. In my question, I would like to address the issue of education, namely education in Estonian. You didn't say that in your presentation, but the development plan says very clearly that the plan is to organise the transition to education in Estonian in all schools and kindergartens. Period. You said it was related to the education development plan, but if you look at the education development plan, it doesn't talk about it. The educational development plan talks about improving the effectiveness of Estonian language learning, not about the transition to Estonian language learning. How's that anyway? What development plan on education in Estonian will be implemented by the Ministry of Education and Research? Which goals are pursued, whether the language development plan or the education development plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U473	Thank you for that question. As you know very well, the field of Estonian language is one of the fields of the Ministry of Education and Research. And it is quite clear that the strategic objective of the Estonian language development plan is worded as follows: "Estonian school education has mostly gone into Estonian-language school education, i.e. teaching in schools and kindergartens funded by the state and local authorities takes place in Estonian. " And this is where we proceed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U474	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U475	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I am very pleased that this development plan also includes the development and study of the outputs that are important for the Estonian sign language and the people with special needs. But at the same time, we have a problem with not studying sign language and letter in universities being developed. What would this vision look like? How can we continue to develop sign language?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U476	Thank you. Firstly, we clearly treat sign language as a separate language area. It is important that it remains and that people have access to it and people with special needs through it also have access to information. We have cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs and higher education institutions, and we are really working together to find a solution so that the development and learning of sign language in Estonia is stablely funded and guaranteed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U477	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U478	Dear Minister, I want to ask what smart device you have and what language this smart device is speaking to you. It is known that there are currently relatively many smart devices in Estonia that speak only English to children or offer to choose another language, but not Estonian. And do you have any kind of plan or any prospects for how this situation could be turned in favour of the Estonian language?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U479	Thank you. First of all, everything has two sides. One aspect is that our children are using smart devices, often in English, very early, and the other is the development of their mother tongue. It does not really support the development of a native language, but the sooner children start speaking different foreign languages, the better their development in general. It's scientifically proven. But this is actually one of the key questions for the sustainability of the Estonian language, so to speak, how can we get Siri to speak Estonian? If we can get Siri to speak Estonian, there is a very high probability that Estonian will survive in the next generations. To this end, we have actually planned to use the European Union's resources to create these technological solutions so that more and more of these smart devices would speak to us in Estonian, for example, in the future refrigerator.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U480	Heiki Hepner.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U481	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I also ask about the transition to school education in Estonian. You explained what was meant by it. However, my question concerns why all of this is not reflected in the metrics set out in the development plan. Very funny gauges are given here in two pieces, which do not really have any content. Its content will probably not be processed until next year. Why is this reflected in the development plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U482	Thank you. In this development plan there is a course 3.1 which says that it supports the development and implementation of the Estonian-language education plan, starting with early childhood education, which provides sufficient language skills to continue studies in Estonian at the next levels of education and lifelong learning. And if you look at attitudes, for example, in Ida-Virumaa, 15% of the population says that early childhood education should only be given in Russian. On average, this figure is 13% in Estonia. Only 12% of people in Ida-Viru County want their child to study fully in Russian. So these attitudes have changed. And if we look at trends, now that it's running, you're probably familiar with the "+1 teacher" program, which means an Estonian teacher in the Russian-language kindergarten group. If the plans that are now in place are fulfilled, there will be no more kindergarten groups on Kohtla-Järve, which would not be included in either the "+1 teacher" programme or the immersion. In fact, there would be two such groups on Kohtla-Järve, and there wouldn't be one in Jõhvi. So already people want their children to learn Estonian and Estonian as early as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U483	Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U484	Thank you, good Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. I was inspired by Mr Viktoria's question of the language in which smart devices speak. I remembered from the time you were still a member of the Riigikogu that there was a sign on your door that you could also speak Võro in your office. It made me feel so good. And the debate on the previous draft in this Chamber eventually went largely over for discussion on languages. That is a very good introduction to this debate. Do you think any foreign language expressions are allowed in the speeches of members of the Riigikogu? There were several variations: Russian, English, Latin phrases. Are there any preferences that can be used in this hall other than Estonian? It's not a malicious question at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U485	Thank you. Having worked in this Chamber for six years, I know very well that a member of the Riigikogu is free in his mandate and can use expressions that he or she agrees with. But the fact that language develops and takes over different expressions from other languages is commonplace in itself. I don't know what terms were used here, if you take the context into account. But the fact that the language develops and takes over from other languages is not bad in itself, it shows the development of the language.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U486	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U487	Minister, thank you for your review. You are now in a role where you have had very little responsibility for the Minister in your field, but you must also answer all questions about what has not been done so far. When you were at our Trouble Committee on the Development of Estonian Language Learning, we all realized that children want to learn Estonian, but there is a problem with teaching materials. Not that they are missing, but their level does not correspond to what would guarantee children the result of teaching the Estonian language that is set as a goal. But my question is actually more about funding language research and humanitarian research at all. Compared to other areas, funding in this area is relatively low. The Minister of Culture once had the idea of creating a separate research programme on Estonian language and culture. Has this been mentioned in this government? It was the time of the previous government, when that thought was, have you heard of it? Has that been a story?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U488	Thank you. On the subject of funding for research in the humanitarian field, I will come to you separately to answer a question on this issue. But really such a program as "Estonian Language and Culture in the Digital Era" exists. There are also, of course, different dialect programmes, which are primarily done by the Institute of Estonian Language and the University of Tartu. And the third area is research into language technology. These are all very important in order for our language to live and develop and for us to be able to use it more in different smart solutions in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U489	Riina Sikkut would like to ask you more.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U490	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. It is important that we speak beautiful Estonian, such simple and clear. I just wanted to say, first of all, that I was startled by the fact that one major objective concerns language infrastructure. I know there is a vocal competition designed to make it easier to say in Estonian, but still this language infrastructure is a stranger. But I'm gonna ask you about a number. You nicely said that only 12% of people would like children to study in a school with a purely Russian language. In fact, nearly a third want their children to study in a school with Russian language, where Estonian is also studied, and a fifth prefers Estonian-language school, but there could be deep Russian-language learning. So more than half of the people would still like to learn either Russian or Russian, which is different from what Estonian parents want in their children's or grandchildren' comprehensive school. How can it be overcome if half the people want to learn Russian in depth or learn Russian in school?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U491	Thank you for your question. In itself, learning a language in depth is a good thing. We know that we have a German Gymnasium in Kadriorg, where we study German in depth, we have schools that teach French in depth. If a school decides that a language is being studied in depth, it is very good in itself, and this development plan also supports them to have schools. However, fresh integration monitoring says that more and more people in other languages want their children to speak Estonian well. This understanding, in which form of study they will eventually learn the Estonian language well, so that there are no glass ceilings in front of these young people due to lack of knowledge of the national language, is currently very different in society, both among Estonians and non-Estonians. These are the solutions that need to be offered so that all young people have a level playing field.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U492	Good minister, I don't see any more questions for you now. I thank you for your presentation and your answer to the questions. Next, Signe Kivi, representative of the Committee on Culture, is invited to the chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U493	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On the agenda of the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu, the "Estonian Language Development Plan 2021 to 2035," with the original title "Estonian Language Development Plan 2021 to 2035," has been discussed in six sessions. Substantive discussions took place on 17 February 2020 and 12 January 2021. Procedural decisions were taken on 25 January, 28 January, 8 February and 11 May this year. All the meetings of the Commission were chaired by Aadu Black. At its meeting on 17 February the members of the Commission attended Helle-Moonika Helme, Signe Kivi, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Heidy Purga, Katri Raik, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Jaak Valge, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi and Marko Šorin. Minister Mailis Reps, Deputy Secretary General Kristi Vinter-Nemvalts, Head of the Language Department Piret Kärtner and Project Manager of the Development Plan Toomas Kiho were invited. Minister Reps and project manager Toomas Kiho introduced the working version of the development plan. Questions were asked by Mikhail Stalnukhin, Heidy Purga, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Jaak Valge, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi and Katri Raik. Mikhail Stalnukhin was concerned about the fragmented language learning of adults. Heidy Purga wanted to clarify the strategic objective of moving mostly to Estonian-language school education. He wanted to know who would supervise language policy. Signe Kivi and Jaak Valge made observations and suggested that the development plan be entitled "Estonian Language Development Plan." There was a discussion. The Minister confirmed that the development plan had a desire to give a signal that it would switch to Estonian-language education, but that it would also respect other native languages. Jaak Valge found that the focus must be on the Estonian language and the name should be "Estonian language development plan." Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits asked about the development plan procedure and the timetable, and the minister replied that the plan was to reach the Riigikogu before the summer. Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits stressed that the aim should be to have an education system in Estonian, but it is necessary to give children with a mother tongue other than their native language an opportunity to choose their mother tongue. These parents should also be given the necessary language support. Kristiina Šmigun-Vähi wanted to know whether the development plan would become more concrete and received a reply from the Minister that the action plans would be added to the development plan with metrics. Toomas Kiho pointed out that if the document was confirmed, there would be all the possibilities to provide education in Estonian by 2035. Meeting of the Commission on 12 January "Estonian Language Development Plan 2021-2035" was on the agenda and related to the country's long-term strategy "Estonia 2035." Agenda item 3 was the procedural decisions of the Estonian language development plan. Jaak Aab, Deputy Chancellor Kristi Vinter-Nemvalts, Head of the Language Department Andero Adamson, Chairman of the Estonian Language Council Professor Birute Klaas-Lang and ministerial advisers were invited this time. Minister Ab presented to the Commission the objectives, general content and focus of the development plan. Professor Birute Klaas-Lang gave an overview of the background to the birth of the development plan. The previous Estonian language development plan was valid until 2017 and extended for three years. In 2019, language scientists convened two seminars by way of a citizens' initiative, attended by representatives of all language councils throughout the ages, the Ministry and also the State Chancellery. The main problems and objectives of the new development plan were defined. Birute Klaas-Lang stressed that the development plan was the result of the cooperation and inclusion process and considered it important that the legal space function in such a way that the sustainability of the Estonian language is guaranteed, which is also the task of the state. Birute Klaas also stressed that Estonian society is ready for a political decision on the subject of the Estonian-language school. A debate took place in which Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Eduard Odines, Aadu Black, Heidy Purga and Signe Kivi participated. The discussion concerned the procedure, consideration of amendments, links between education and the development plan of Estonian language, the language of instruction in Estonian schools and universities. Viktoria Ladõnskaya-Kubits noted that the Commission had been working on the development plan for over a year and wanted to know how the proposals of the political groups were taken into account and whether the development plan was final. Birute Klaas-Lang replied that no proposals had been made to the language council, and Minister Aab explained that the development plans for government level would reach the Riigikogu for the hearing, but no formal amendments could be tabled there. However, proposals for supplementing the development plan can be submitted to the State Chancellery and will be available for evaluation by the Ministry of Education and Research. To inform colleagues that feedback from the Ministry showed that proposals from almost all political groups have been taken into account or taken into account in substance. The EKRE Group tabled seven amendments, the Fatherland also seven and the Reform Party five. Eduard Odines asked what the Ministry's strategic objective was: either improving the teaching of Estonian or the Estonian-language school. He also wanted to know how the mother tongue education of children in other languages would be done and which development plan would coordinate it. Minister Ab explained that the educational development plan, the language development plan and the coherent population development plan all pursue the same objectives. Although the wordings of the development plans do not overlap by 100%, the content is aimed at teaching mostly in Estonian. It takes time and it doesn't happen overnight. On the proposal of Aadu Black, the Commission decided to appoint Signe Kivi as the Commission's representative for the discussion on the "Estonian Language Development Plan 2021 to 2035" and to put the development plan on the agenda for the plenary session by 27 January 2021. The decision was adopted by consensus. I will take a brief look at the sessions where procedural decisions were taken, as I have already mentioned. At the meeting of the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu on 25 January, it was decided to propose to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu to exclude the first and second item on the agenda of the third working week of the 14th plenary session of the Riigikogu on 27 January. These were the discussion of the Estonian language development plan and the development plan for the youth field. The decision was made by consensus. The next Commission meeting was on 28 January. On a proposal from the chairman of the committee, the decision was taken to put the Estonian language development plan and the educational development plan on the agenda of the assembly by Wednesday 10 February. The decision was made by consensus. Next, the meeting of the Riigikogu Cultural Commission on 8 February. Aadu Must announced the proposal of the Coalition Council and also proposed to the Commission to exclude the fourth working week of the 14th plenary session of the Riigikogu from the agenda of the 4th working week of the 14th plenary session of the Riigikogu, the fifth and sixth item on the agenda of 10 February, which was the discussion of the development plan for education and the development plan for Estonian language. The decision had five members: Aadu Black, Heidy Purga, Margit Sutrop, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi and Marko Šorin. Two members opposed: Eduard Odines and Helle-Moonika Helme, with two abstentions: Jaak Valge and Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits. And the meeting of the Riigikogu Committee on Culture, which took place on 11 May. Point 2.4: submit the Estonian language development plan to the plenary agenda by Wednesday, 2 June. The decision was adopted by consensus. With regard to the rapporteur, the Commission had already taken its decision on 12 January and this rapporteur is standing before you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U494	Good waitress, there are some questions for you. Initiating Eduard Odines.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U495	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Commission. I want to ask you about the postponement of these deadlines when this development plan will arrive in this great hall. We heard very strange and very long-standing deadlines here. One of the reasons that you put out of your mouth right now was that the Coalition Council decided so. However, we can see that, in the meantime, no decimal places have been changed in this document for more than half a year. Can you explain to us what has caused such a long procedure and this late arrival in this great hall? And what were the arguments put forward by this coalition council as to why this development plan had to be kept secret for six months?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U496	Thank you very much. It has actually been impressive to process this development plan, especially making different changes. Unfortunately, the Commission's protocol does not highlight the reasons. We can only assume that for the first time it was taken off the agenda because perhaps the agenda went too long. And then the government changed. I fully understand that the new minister wanted to see the development plan. In fact, it is stated in the minutes of the Commission meeting on 12 January that the development plan was discussed in a coherent manner together with the development plan "Estonia 2035." Next, as we can see, our spring session has really been very long, and there are many items on the agenda. So that's how he's gone. However, this dissatisfaction may be mitigated by the fact that the Commission's meetings dealt with the development plan in very substance, made proposals, expressed different opinions. So in this respect we, and hopefully the other members of the Riigikogu sitting in the Chamber, have no reproach for the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U497	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U498	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Development plans, as we know very well, are born in collaboration with a large number of people and experts. And although you are a Commission waitress and give an overview of the Commission's discussions, I do want to satisfy my curiosity and ask whether, as a well-known person in the field of culture, you also made any proposals for this development plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U499	Thank you very much for your question. I have already touched on one of the issues that linked me and Jaak Valge: we both wished that the initial development plan for the language area would be specifically formulated as an Estonian language development plan. But I did leave out the record in those minutes that concerns me. I emphasised at the committee meeting that these development plans, the development plan for education and the language development plan are closely linked, and since we were already in a completely new situation in the process of processing this development plan because of COVID, I pointed out that the lack of knowledge of the Estonian language has actually divided people into different information rooms, which are very unfortunate and may not be so. It seemed to me that it was very good that the development plan for the language sector stressed that the ability to speak Estonian was actually a security policy issue. This was not mentioned in the previous development plans. I also found and emphasised that I am pleased that several of the amendments were related to the importance of moving to a single Estonian-language education. This requires a fixed-term political decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U500	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U501	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, thank you very much for this comprehensive review. It was as if I had been present at the committee meeting myself. I believe that this development plan is the result of broad-based inclusion. But the achievement of the objectives of each development plan also depends on financial opportunities and other resources. This will undoubtedly be specified in the action plans, but it will soon be the preparation of a budget strategy. We have dealt with teaching materials in the Estonian language learning committee. People would like to learn Estonian, but often these educational materials do not allow it. A lot of money has been allocated in the past, but the result has not been achieved. Was the Commission also talking about the financial resources needed to achieve the objectives of the development plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U502	Thank you very much for this question. Yes, the former Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps answered Kristina Šmigun-Vähi's question concerning the specificity of the development plan, that the development plan is accompanied by action plans with metrics and that these are annual ministerial level documents and are dependent on the state budget. More on this subject, the Commission did not pay attention to the finances in its discussions and it is not possible to read it in the minutes either.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U503	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U504	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In fact, I will continue with the same subject that Helmen has just asked about. Indeed, the development plan contains page 17, which provides a forecast of the cost of the development plan. After all, the country's budget strategy has been adopted freshly. Indeed, I would have liked to ask the Minister, the Minister would probably have been able to answer more precisely, but two questions could not be asked. Here it is foreseen to implement the development plan of EUR 15 to 16 million per year. Will these costs also be incurred in the coming years, from 2022 to 2025? Are these also reflected in the national budget strategy? Do you, as a representative of the government department, have any information on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U505	Thank you very much for this question. Since I am the Commission's rapporteur, I take this opportunity to say that I have indeed worked through all the protocols thoroughly, but much time has passed and I have tried to convey this intrinsic atmosphere, but these issues have not been discussed by the Commission. That is why we need to get that answer from someone else.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U506	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U507	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I have a purely informative question. I would like to know whether anyone in the Commission has asked about the fact that although there is no word in the coalition agreement on the transition of Russian-speaking schools to the national language, the Commission is sending a development plan to the hall where this objective is fixed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U508	Thank you very much. Did anyone in the Commission ask such a question? Our questions were very many about the field of education, about languages at all, and also about the Estonian language, but no member of the Commission asked this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U509	Ladies and gentlemen, when discussing this development plan, each member of the Riigikogu has the opportunity to ask a question to both rapporteurs. I don't see any more questions. Now we open negotiations and the first word is Eduard Odines. Please! And I would also like to point out that during the negotiations, all members of the Riigikogu can take the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U510	More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U511	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U512	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, In particular, I would like to thank all the authors of the Estonian language development plan and the contributors to this very thorough process, especially the Estonian Language Council. The work has been done seriously and thoroughly. Very important objectives have been set: the status and reputation of the Estonian language, studying the Estonian language, developing the language infrastructure, mastering the Estonian language and valuing the skills of other languages. The Social Democrats basically support the objectives of the development plan, but there are still some issues that I would like to draw colleagues' attention to. From the point of view of language research, I am concerned about the funding of research and research on this subject. In Estonia, where the preservation of the mother tongue and culture is considered to be a constitutional value, the funding of humanities is considerably lower than in other disciplines. The previous Minister of Culture initiated a programme of research and development in humanities, including cultural and linguistic fields, in order to enhance the humanities' ability to contribute to the development of the Estonian language and cultural space. The sole source of funding for the programme is the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) of EUR 3 million for nine years. And it is paid in the framework of a smart specialisation measure, which means a significant departure from the original objective. From the point of view of the knowledge of Estonian language, the development plan states that Estonia will switch to education in Estonian, that the teaching in schools and kindergartens of the state and local governments will take place in Estonian. But the plan to move towards this goal remains unclear. There is a reference to the development plan for education. The Education Development Plan does not provide for such an objective. It is thus unclear how the objective of the language development plan will be achieved. It was good to find out from the minister that the aim of the language development plan would remain. At least to the Minister, this is clear. The transition to education in Estonian is as it is. Government departments have different stories, starting from the fact that there is no transition until the transition begins now. In this confusion of messages, it is difficult to believe that the objective set out in the language development plan can be realised at all. In addition, no metrics have been set in the development plan for the transition to education in Estonian, which once again makes it possible to question its thought-out and credibility. At this point, I would like to stress that, in order to achieve this goal, the social democrats feel that it is more necessary to develop the idea of a co-educating school and to achieve a situation that guarantees the integration of children and young people in other languages into Estonia's cultural and value area and gives them an equal opportunity to participate in social and professional life and to continue their studies. RITA migration under the project has developed different models. Let us seize them and bring them to life! As an important activity, the development plan states that the study of Estonian as a second language would be of high quality and accessible, and that the number of people who speak the Estonian language would significantly increase. A very reasonable goal indeed. However, looking back at the metrics, we can see that the yardstick for this goal is to create an environment for adult learners in the organisation of the teaching of Estonian as a second language. Once again, there is a very weak connection that causes conflicting feelings. In addition, it is known that most of the resources for organising adult Estonian language learning are in the area of the Ministry of Culture: the structural resources of the European Union, the funding of Estonian language houses from the state budget. The lack of coordination between the two ministries has been repeatedly referred to, including in the report of the National Audit Office. With concern, I also think that if the aim of mastering the Estonian language of all Estonian residents is not achieved for political or other reasons, whether it is possible to talk about achieving the high status and reputational purpose of the Estonian language. Hopefully, the Government of the Republic, which approves the development plan, will also have a plan B in place. At the same time, the results of integration monitoring show that the proficiency of the Estonian language in Estonian society is improving from year to year. So there is hope that I have nothing to worry about. But another contradiction that I would like to highlight in the language development plan. On the one hand, the aim of the development plan is that children with a different mother tongue from the Estonian language will receive their native language education, on the other hand, it is stipulated that the topic of the mother tongue of ethnic minorities will be dealt with by a different development plan, a coherent social development plan under the direction of the Ministry of Culture. Social Democrats have repeatedly raised the issue that Russian as a foreign language for Russian-speaking children in a school with an Estonian language of instruction is not correct. Russian language education should also be organised as a native language education in a school with an Estonian language of instruction. The Minister of Education and Science has promised to take this matter seriously. We look forward to the results of this serious challenge. And to conclude. Ladies and gentlemen, the objectives and actions are broadly correct, but, to a significant extent, they relate to other development plans, with indicators for achieving these objectives being largely in other development plans and strategies. This is a serious concern, as the objectives of the various development plans seem to conflict in some ways. At the same time, this development plan and, for example, the education development plan are prepared by the previous government and hopefully the new government will be able to resolve these contradictions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U513	Next, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits is welcome to the chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U514	Ladies and gentlemen, On the one hand, I am delighted to be standing here at this moment because such a big job is behind me. This is a work that has essentially been done over the years, and in the end has been completed in a comprehensive, important development plan. The development plan of the Estonian language is also very important in that we are talking directly about the objective set out in our constitution. So in that sense, I am very happy to stand here today. On the other hand, I feel sad, and that is because this development plan is relatively modest and relatively round. It doesn't exactly say what the main goal is, what the main visions are or where we want to end up. Why did this happen? I can explain. Because all these major strategy papers are essentially linked to whether there is political will or no political will. And how we answer this question actually depends on the strategy that we choose for ourselves. Or you don't. There are three important nuances that have happened to this development plan over the years. The first is, in essence, immediately in the first paragraph of the explanatory memorandum to this development plan. This development plan was generally in operation for many years, it has been done for a very long time. In the beginning there was a previous development plan that told us about the objectives of Estonian language. This development plan ended in 2017. We had to make a new development plan, but we were unable to agree on its text, and therefore the previous development plan was extended, which is already a bit, or a bit, wrong in terms of logic. How, then, does the previous development plan, rather than adopting a new one, be extended on such an important issue? But they couldn't agree. Bring the previous, extended development plan, essentially ended last year. And now it is only now that we are dealing with a new development plan that, like political logic, does not actually match. Why has this happened? Again because there were political disputes. There is also such a nuance here that, in essence, it was the Committee on Culture that worked on this text during last year's emergency, and it was extremely urgent. I remember how all the political groups had to table their amendments. And we rushed because we wanted to get somewhere like a real point. No, I didn't. Somewhere in the government, the development plan was paused a little. And now, a year later, we took it up again. In the meantime, there was also a confusion as to whether the political group's amendments had even arrived there. Now, thanks to what the Commission representative said here today, it became clear that, ultimately, the proposals of the political groups are included in this development plan. But basically, was that a question in the air? Overall, there is also this central question, which is the point of the development plan. Not specifically the idea of this development plan, but generally the idea of a strategy paper such as the development plan. We have a lot of different development plans and some development plans seem to speak in support of each other, but some actually argue with each other. And that is what is now happening with the development plan for education. Basically, they talk about the same thing, sometimes the same thing, but... I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U515	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U516	... but because we actually have a complicated question on the table, namely the education system in Estonian, and we are very different in our approach to this issue, very different sentences and very different explanations have appeared in the development plans. One political force can read what it needs from there and the other can read what it needs from there, but basically we do not give a clear signal to society with this development plan. The next issue, which is also a political issue, is that, in essence, it was decided somewhere that development plans were strategic documents that did not have to be voted on in this House. I think it's kind of weird. Because we offer some kind of vision, we offer our amendments, but ultimately the Minister and the Government take note of them or do not take them exactly as they want. In principle, Parliament's will may not be reflected in the development plan. And all of this, as in the end, is indeed one big question for me whether there is political will or whether there is no political will. And in case we as politicians can't make any decisions, officials can't write it down either. And then the development plan comes well in general terms, round, there is relatively little specificity. But if there is little specificity, does it make any sense? So I call on politicians to say very clearly what we want or what we do not want if we once again raise some kind of education or culture or language issue. That's one. And two: obviously, if there are any problems in this development plan, they are not related either to officials or to the ministry's work, but are clearly linked to the fact that politicians have not given their message clearly enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U517	Next, please Jaak White.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U518	Just in case, I'll ask for three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U519	Sure. Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U520	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear technical staff! Our group has also rightly criticised the process of drawing up and processing these development plans. This development plan is no exception, but since it has been discussed so many times here today and the previous speaker has dealt with it very thoroughly, I will not repeat it again, except in one place. In fact, it is rather strange that there is no association of mother tongue teachers among the organisations that have coordinated the draft. This society is known to have 262 active members and is an active representative organisation of Estonian language teachers. But now I'm going to get to the bottom of it. As we know, we have a serious problem with the Estonian language. Even then, this problem is serious if we do not talk about a fall in the level of language use or about general English - languageism. The share of national speakers among the residents of Estonia is known to continue to be lower in only one European country than in Estonia, and this country is Moldova. If anyone can name another country in the world where this proportion is lower than us, I'd just find it interesting to know. There are indeed good places in this development plan, but the main and fundamental drawback, which, unfortunately, are not compensated for by these positive aspects, is the fact that the development plan is poorly focused on what it is called and set out for. In fact, in the development plan, the content related to the Estonian language has been combined with our foreign language strategy. The development plan is very much about the need to value foreign languages, which is, of course, necessary, but which should not have to do with it. And now I would like to remind you that the title of the document "Estonian Language Development Plan" was originally written with the capital letter "Estonia" and the word "language area." As my colleague Signe Kivi has already pointed out, it received criticism and was changed, but unfortunately the content remained, despite our proposals. The development plan continues to seek to cover the whole language area of Estonia with this capital letter, that is to say, foreign language issues. So, actually, that old title would be more honest. The position of the Chairman of the EKRE Cultural Panel Toivo Tasa, which I am sure to share, is as follows: if we really want to make the development plan for the Estonian language "Estonian" with a small letter, it is necessary that all parts of the text in the draft really only deal with the development and promotion of Estonian as the only national language in Estonia. The Estonian language should be separated from the development plan as part of the foreign languages, and the development plan should be written and delivered clear again. There could be other development plans for foreign languages and all other aspects of objects. The official language of the nation states, as well as immigration and citizenship, is at first still a matter for the sovereign state itself and for its own decision. And when we consider all kinds of primary or secondary languages in this text, the subjects of their teaching and learning in this development plan may no longer be up to the sovereign state itself at any time. It is therefore important whether we call Estonian in our strategic document the first language of Estonia or the only national language of Estonia. This difference is practical, fundamental and legally large. While I was already on top of these quotes, I would now quote the Estonian philologist and language teacher, Doctor of Philosophy Loone Ots. "In the current form, the development plan is like a winter swan: it's beautiful to watch, but you can't find this bird under the snow to eat. People feed swans with bread that does not contain all the material necessary for the bird's life, and the swan starts to rattle and finally the wings grow. Permanently." We do not want such a fate for our precious Estonian language. Loone Ots believes that the development plan for Estonian should be revised once more before adoption, involving native language teachers, pointing out more clearly fiction than value development and popularisation, and considering whether the topic of foreign language skills of Estonians is still part of the development plan for Estonian language. "Estonian language and culture are protected in the world only by ourselves. It's our priority. By accepting the draft as it stands, we give the impression of the ESSR, where things were done at the command of the planned economy and more important than the content, the opportunity was to write in: "It was done! "This must certainly not be the purpose of drawing up the development plan for the Estonian language," he wrote. However, I will conclude with my own words, namely that the indiscretion of the development plan is illustrated by the fact that most of the meters are missing. There are no eight metrics, namely five. And without knowing what the level of functional reading skills of Estonian residents should be in 2035 or what the proportion of people using the Estonian language in 2035 should be in the population, it is actually difficult to know where this development plan is intended to develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U521	Mikhail Stalnukhin next. Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U522	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm extremely sarcastic about any development plan they bring to this hall. I need to remember Hoja Nasreddin, who once, if you believe these fairy tales from Central Asia, took a donkey from Bukhara's emir and promised to teach him how to read in ten years. Got a bag of gold and disappeared with it. He was asked, poor man, you don't teach a donkey to read. Oh, my God, your head's gone! But he said, "In ten years, the sultan or the emir will die, or I will die, or the donkey will die, but the gold will be here today." All the development plans are like this. Today, ladies and gentlemen, I have two messages for you in this regard. One thing I have to read because it wasn't me who wrote it. I'll tell you who it was at the end. "The question is not so much in language as in the level of teaching in Estonian schools at all. Just in the last twenty years, there has been a decline in the development, rearing and teaching of unbridled children. [--] Between 2001 and 2012, the intelligence of the gymnasts (IQ) fell to 8 standard points in Estonian schools. This was demonstrated by Merle Kõrisaar's study of over 1,400 gymnastics carried out through the Institute of Psychology at the University of Tartu (but these data are not even intended to be published). The majority of young people meet in the archipelago who, by class and/or auditorium, can no longer understand or express the simple story of a lecturer. It is the students of the Russian schools here who still stand out for thinking and/or intelligent expression, because our so-called Russian schools were delayed by modern and "innovative" didactic methods. [---] Therefore, the honourable Riigikogu! It is a long time to start dealing with what is happening at the Estonian (English) school; there is also a growing shortage of teachers (which will accelerate the decline) buried here." This letter was sent to the Riigikogu by Peep Leppik, a scholarly schoolmaster. It did so on 7 December 2020. Colleagues, why are you clinging to a Russian school? Aren't you sorry about the Estonian school? Does anybody even do that? Listen, when you talk about teaching Estonian in Russian, I'll tell you another joke. We do not have a standard, or a validated methodology, that would be the basis and set some zero level. Point one. Point two: we do not have any teaching tools. There's a lot of them, and there's no such thing that you can understand from start to finish. From kindergarten to 12th grade, this system must be unified, we do not have it. We don't have teachers, they just don't prepare them. Practically the teachers' preparation has been completed. Instead, people are taken off the street, and in three months they are made teachers. Are you kidding me? And now, what's the joke? I recently went to my archives in the summer house, burned the excess maps and found an article in my speech translated and published in Narva's newspaper in Russian. It was a speech I gave here in 2002. It said the same things I read to you now, one after the other. Nothing has changed, even though it's been 19 years! That's why I'm looking at the development plans... Well, it's like Hrushchev's promise that in 1980 all Soviet people will live in communism, or Gorbachev's promise that in 2000, every Soviet family will have their own apartment and everything. I think I've still got time. I'll tell you another story. He was once such a big actor as Oleg Jankovsky. Those who lived in Soviet times must know how talented he was. The world was famous, by the way, also filmed in America, Italy, Sweden and so on. But in his first film, the director was Vladimir Bassov. Jankovsky was a very young man, twenty years old, and a fantastic film was, and he went to that director with a question: How am I supposed to build my super role? Well, it's some kind of actress slang, right, how to get through everything from the first to the last frame, to the shape of a hero. And the director said to him, "You play me a little episode, three seconds. And there's a lot of them, and then I'm gonna glue this superroll on you." The problem with each development plan is that they do not propose any plan. In the next three months, we will set up a Commission that will develop requirements for the following methodology in three months. In three months, we will conduct a competition and create a creative collective who will write everything. We are not going to let it go the way they started and stopped after a year, but nobody likes the result, we're going to check the process. We start preparing teachers at the university, both in Tartu and Tallinn. We no longer take people off the street and let one or another organization in the third sector train them. We'll do it ourselves. We do it at national level, we do it by order. Damn it, when it comes to political will, I feel like some kind of baby talking. There's no political will, because it sounds from this bleacher, but then it disappears with the officials. It's not at all! Money disappears like water in the sand. There is no result at all. My Trouble Committee has been investigating the situation for the past year and a half. We have seen a couple of beautiful places: an open school in Tallinn, a kindergarten in Sun Narva. But these are exceptions. That's one for a hundred! And even they don't have enough support. So make development plans. We're going to keep working on the paper, but the kids are going to have a minus 8 IQ points. And that was in 2018. It would be interesting to check now how many more points the IQ has decreased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U523	Next up, Margit Sutrop. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U524	Mr President, I would like to ask for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U525	Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U526	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister, I am pleased to speak on behalf of the Reform Party, which has always stood up for the protection and development of the Estonian language. The inclusion of the Estonian language in the Preamble of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia in 2007 took place on the initiative of the Reform Party, when we supported the proposal of the Director of the Institute of Estonian Language at the time and the Estonian Language Council to supplement the Preamble of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, adding a language in addition to the protection of Estonian nationality and culture. On 21 July 2007, the current version of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia entered into force, which states: "Unwavering in faith and unwavering will to consolidate and develop the state [---], which must ensure the preservation of the Estonian nation, language and culture throughout the ages. " The national curricula of primary school and upper secondary school adopted in 2011 follow the wording of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and also say clearly: Estonian school stands for the preservation and development of Estonian nation, language and culture. Therefore, in upper secondary school as well as in comprehensive school education and education, special attention is paid to the teaching of Estonian. Now for the development plan. Today we redeem our debt, debt to the Estonian Language Council, linguists and all the good partners who have been preparing the development plan for the Estonian language for years. It is indeed a shame that Estonia has not had an Estonian language development plan since 2017. The new Estonian language development plan sets Estonia's language policy goals and trends for the years 2021 to 2035 and says strongly about Estonian language in Estonian school: by 2035 it must be mostly transferred to Estonian-language school education, i.e. teaching in schools and kindergartens funded by the state and local authorities will take place in Estonian. This is a very important sign, an important target device. The development plan is about the status and reputation of the Estonian language, the study of the Estonian language and the infrastructure, as well as the learning of the Estonian language. Let me say a few words about everyone. The status and reputation of the Estonian language is, as linguists say, that language is a tool on the one hand and an identity on the other. Depends on how much we ourselves believe, how much the whole nation believes that being an Estonian is proud and good and that the Estonian language has a future, how much tears will bring to our eyes in Hando Runnel's poem: "One very old nation with the earth's wisdom in its mouth, / greeted us from time to time and said, we will be new,/and said, we will be alive, we will be still ahead of us. And when we heard that happiness, we had eyes in the water. " Why do we have eyes in the water? Why do we not believe that Estonian has a future? I remember writing my first articles of opinion in the 1980s when I got upset by Trivimi Velliste, the Aru Club for Heritage Protection, that we should not be told that we are a small nation. Researchers of language attitudes say that Estonians really underestimate their language and that inferiority is the fastest doomer. Some linguists believe that it is only a matter of time before we are ready to switch to another language. At the same time, we have no reason to be so-called inferior. Indeed, there are 50 languages in the world in which you can obtain higher education, Estonian among them. Windows and MS Office can only be used in 35 cultural languages. We can do that. We are the official language of the European Union, one of the 200 different national languages. Studying the Estonian language, developing the language infrastructure, developing the vocabulary in Estonian is essential for the Estonian language to survive. This is the second objective of the development plan. However, my continuing concern is whether we understand the importance of basic research. Indeed, language technology is a very important priority and I am pleased that the development plan for Estonian language sees language technology as a priority area. Indeed, it depends on how much we can use a wide range of technologies in the future. According to senior researcher Einar Meister at Tallinn University of Technology, the language will depend on the number of speakers, for example, whether private companies will make speech recognition. Language technology tools can be used successfully for business purposes for English and other languages with a large number of speakers. But according to Einar Meister, a dozen or more years ago, it was estimated that if there are less than 10 million speakers in the language, it does not make economic sense. This means that state support for the development of language technology is very important. It is very nice that the Estonian Ministry of Education and Research has been supporting language technology programmes since 2006. But the development of language technology also requires basic research, a broader study of the Estonian language. The development of language technology requires both data science and artificial intelligence. This is indeed a THAILAND issue that we adopted here a few weeks ago. However, how do we use structural funds, which, unfortunately, are only being narrowly directed towards smart specialisation and applied sciences? Knowledge of both language and computer science as well as cognitive psychology is also necessary for the processing of Estonian language. In order to automatically translate texts, it is necessary to start with the identification of bends and turns, the marking of sentence limits, and to stop collecting sophisticated training material for artificial neural networks. And thirdly, the teaching of Estonian. The development plan aims to ensure that all residents of Estonia can speak Estonian and value the skills of other languages. This is crucial. It is important for us to have equal opportunities for all residents to live a good life, to participate in working life, to integrate into society, but it is also a security issue. You could say that the last decision was made in the field of education in Estonia, namely language: the transition to study in Estonian at upper secondary school was precisely determined. That was probably not enough, for the current situation is still catastrophic. You could say that we have 300,000 people in the working age population whose native language is not Estonian. A survey of the Estonian language of adults, carried out in 2017 by CentAR, shows that only about half of the people living in Estonia with a different native language know the Estonian language well, or very well, according to their own estimates. 11% of our 15- to 74-year-olds, or 150,000, do not speak Estonian at all or are at a bad level, and several hundred young people graduate from primary school in Estonia each year, whose level of Estonian does not suffer criticism. It is therefore very important that the Ministry of Education and Research has decided to develop an action plan for the transition to education in Estonian. This means not only language learning, but also integration into language, custom and value space. It is great that the Estonian language development plan states that Estonian-language school education guarantees the integration of children and young people into the Estonian language and value area and gives everyone an equal opportunity to participate in social and professional life and continue their studies at the next level of education. In conclusion, I would say so. I am delighted that teachers, school leaders, parents, as well as the development of didactics and teaching tools are a priority in the action plan of the Ministry of Education and Research. Without developing these tools, it is impossible for us to reach the goal of moving to an Estonian-language school by 2035. Lots of strength for all of us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U527	Oudekki Loone, please! Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U528	" The greatness and mightiness of the people are greatness and mightiness in the things of the spirit and the educated elo. In this way, the entire nation can also be the great and powerful and sour dough of the truths in the spirit's affairs and in the educated elo terms, who drives the elo to live. " So said Jakob Hurt, and today we know he was right. Even the smallest people can be great in spirit and in this way change the course of the world and provide their own people with freedom. Language is a means of creating, expressing, and developing the greatness of our spirit. And that's why we have to keep him safe and protect him. That is why we must ensure that in our language, in Estonian, everything can be said without the need for other languages to help. We must ensure that all scientific and cultural achievements in the world are available to our people in their mother tongue. Is that right? If you read the Estonian language development plan, you must note that unfortunately you do not. Everything here is written: English-languageization of scientific disciplines, reduced Estonian language in the fields of IT, science and higher education, withdrawal of Estonian in public space, not to mention information society services, lack of coordinated terminology development, lack of cooperation between specialist and language specialists from major things to minor things. The dream was that any undergraduate student in any field could only work with the scientific literature in their native language. It was a dream that all, the world's peaks, would be translated into Estonian. It was a dream that Estonian writers' books could be retrieved from every Estonian library. This seems like an absurd dream in the harsh criticism of this development plan. Can the fate of the Estonian language be that we are simply the language of the kitchen? No, we can't allow that in this hall. And I am pleased that this development plan makes justified criticism and says that it is high time to reconsider our language policy. I am sorry that this Estonia, where our native language is an equal cultural language, is not formulated as an objective. To achieve this goal, we need to do much more than image design and write down good practices. The use of our beautiful mother tongue as a malakana, ignoring the constitutional rights of our minorities, will not contribute to the protection, development and growth of the Estonian language. Let me remind you that our constitution says: the language of instruction in a minority educational institution is chosen by an educational institution and the choice of education for children is a decisive word for parents. In Parliament, we must set great goals. Scaring our Russian-speaking people by losing their native-language education is not a big goal. This is petty bullying, even if it is hidden in the bureaucratic sauce of promotional programmes and support, expansion, development. We do not really have a picture of this Estonia, where language is not a political struggle in the Malaka, where language is a means of achieving the size of our spirit. We have enough translators and other language editors when, indeed, the most important texts published in the world, scientific and literary, are constantly monitored in every scientific and cultural field. In the development of our scientific language, it is not enough that we do term creation and then put all terms together in a single database. It's not enough. It is necessary for our scientists, our academics, our students, our school students to think and discuss among themselves in Estonian even the most difficult problems, including all the more specific problems. The funding policy of universities must be one that enables at least one periodical scientific publication in Estonian in each field of science, in which the excellence can be addressed in Estonian. Our doctoral studies must be written in Estonian and our universities must have the means to translate them to foreign reviewers. But the writer of the thesis must be able to write it in Estonian. Then we are truly equal, great in spirit, equal in great languages. We need to set this as our goal. A little more culture. Why not consider duplicating film series into a good Estonian language, which at the same time ensures the continuous professional development of our film actors and supports the development of our film industry. I'm not talking about computer games and IT technology. Our everyday machines must communicate with us in Estonian. Any program in any machine could have a choice of Estonian language, offer an Estonian language that is quite Estonian, not such a bureaucratic, bizarre thing. Good fellows! Our task is to ensure that the Estonian people can be great in spirit, growing up thinking and thinking in Estonian. Let's dream big and make these dreams come true! We give the people of Estonia the opportunity to participate in the world's top culture equally with the inhabitants of New York, London, Moscow, Rome, Paris or Tokyo. Let's not get stuck in these development plans today, in a bureaucratic drawer, let's not do anything for a bird! We are setting a real goal for a larger, fairer, more benevolent and smarter Estonia! And we confirm that we do not count money to achieve these goals, that we do not send on the clippers when we are dealing with Estonian language policy. We provide all the necessary and sufficient resources so that the language of this land can always search for eternity as it rises up in the wind of song. And we respect the native languages of other nations equally with our beautiful native language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U529	And now Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U530	Good chairman of the sitting! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, there is no doubt that one of the foundations of the Estonian state is the Estonian language. And according to the spirit of the Constitution, we must develop our country in such a way that it not only preserves the nation and culture but also preserves the Estonian language through the ages. To be honest, one could not imagine the preservation of a nation and culture without the Estonian language. On the one hand, it is good that we now have on this table an Estonian language development plan for 2021-2035, which we have discussed quite a bit today. There have been words that we have redeemed debt. In a way, however, I would question the question behind it: Are we really? Well, isn't that just half the work? The development plan has three strategic objectives: the status of the Estonian language is solid and the reputation is good, the study of the Estonian language is internationally high and the language infrastructure is innovative, open and diverse, the vocabulary of the Estonian language is developed in a coordinated manner, and lastly, all Estonian citizens speak Estonian and value the skills of other languages. I will look a little more closely at this last strategic objective. It seems to me that when it was political will that was spoken here today, the focus was on this last strategic objective. We have not had the political will that everyone in Estonia can speak Estonian. That's actually the way it has been, you have to look in the mirror. And now we should look at how the development plan deals with this issue. Does he give these solutions, these goals, how can we achieve this? It seems to me, however, that here we have points of thought, or maybe we could say it directly, empty gaps. In order to achieve something, what we have achieved must be measured. And in order to measure, the meters must be described. If we look at the metrics that are included in this development plan, frankly, I'm embarrassed. I'm embarrassed that such a development plan has arrived here. It shouldn't have been here today. The transition to Estonian. In order for our schools, our kindergartens, to go to the Estonian language, we have put a strategic objective in the development plan to improve the education of adult Estonian as a second language. And the second goal is the better self-esteemed foreign language skills of Estonian residents. With them, we will measure how we are going to switch to Estonian at school, in kindergartens. What are the meters? In one case none and by 2035 this environment has been created and in the other case the metric will be specified in 2022. In fact, if we look at these meters as a whole, as well as the substantive descriptions that are given here, these meters are still, well, to say the least, incomplete. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U531	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U532	Indeed, if we now look at this political will, on the one hand, this political will is reflected in money. It would be very important for us to find stable funding every year for 15 to 16 million, as has been shown here. And that this would also be guaranteed in the next period of the country's budgetary strategy, because there is no point in coming here with a document that provides for funding, but on the other hand we do not know whether or not there is a country's budgetary strategy. I hope there is. I very much hope, and I very much believe that the Minister will also make an effort to make this money. But if this money is not available, it is not possible to create these teaching tools, it is not possible to teach teachers. In fact, this creation of standards is, in some ways, a matter of really more of a catch-up. We will also work to ensure that this political will also guarantees funding. At the same time, what I'm trying to say is that you can't just get behind the money. Let me give you an example. Here were examples of how Narva has been. Raplamaa was the only Russian gymnasium in Kohila municipality and we have had considerable numbers of Russian-speaking people. In 2000, we decided that it was wise to switch to Estonian-language education. It wasn't easy. We have indeed a little bit, with a finger on the various funds, received support from the state, but our own wish was great. We hired assistant teachers when needed, we brought in additional language training at kindergarten, and we actually did it. And now there is no problem, there is no problem for years. Actually, it's a pick-up thing. Of course, I admit that the subject of teachers, the subject of teaching tools, cannot be overlooked. If we want to operate systematically, it is certainly important. So, in conclusion, we've done one job, and I'd say we're halfway there. I very much urge the Minister to look at these bottlenecks before this plan is finally approved. This really must not be a development plan that will lead to us again in 2035, as Mikhail Stalnukhin here said when referring to 2002 that nothing has happened in 19 years. I really hope it doesn't come. Reach out for us and work for the Estonian language! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U533	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We have discussed the "Estonian Language Development Plan 2021 to 2035." And as I said at the beginning, at the end of the debate, the Riigikogu will not take a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U534	Let us move on to our 10th item on the agenda today. This is a presentation of the implementation of the Culture Policy Decision until 2020 and is made by Anneli Ott, Minister of Culture. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that any member of the Riigikogu may ask one oral question and only the representatives of the political groups may take the floor this time. Anneli Oti's report is up to 30 minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U535	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to present you with a report on the implementation of the fundamentals of cultural policy during the 2014-20 period. Strong traditions play an important role in Estonian culture, which we are very proud of. Culture is important and the result matters very much to the people of Estonia. Even if we do not show it every day, the love of cultural traditions is strongly expressed at the Song and Dance and at all when it comes to symbol values and keeping them. The cultural field is broad and interwoven with many other areas of life. Culture is like an iceberg: the tip can be visible and experienced, but below the waterline is a much wider sense of size, invisible, personal sense of each one of us. Culture has many meanings and layers, all of which we are carriers. Estonian cultural policy has been guided in the last seven years by the strategy paper Culture 2020 which was confirmed in the Riigikogu in 2014. The strategy agreed on the objectives and priorities for cultural policy. Today's presentation summarises a rather long period of time and we are already going on with a new strategic agreement, which is the "Cultural Development Plan 2021 to 2030," which I hope I will present to you before the end of the spring session. Seven years ago, we made cultural policy the goal of creating a society of value for creativity, preserving and promoting Estonian national identity, studying, storing and transferring cultural memory and creating favourable conditions for the development and participation in a vibrant, open and diverse cultural space. Due to the objectives set, we have taken a number of important steps in implementing Estonian cultural policy over the years, starting with a consistent increase in the minimum wage for cultural workers and cultural memory, creating favourable conditions for the development and participation in a vibrant, open and diverse cultural space. Due to the objectives set, we have taken a number of important steps in the process of advancing Estonian cultural policy over these years. Now some examples of important job victories contributed not only to the Ministry of Culture but also to the Riigikogu and, in fact, to society as a whole. First of all, from 2020, which presented a wide range of challenges to the cultural field and was clearly distinct throughout the period. The global pandemic had a significant impact on participation in cultural life, the possibilities for creating culture and the whole of Estonia's cultural sphere as a whole. The Ministry of Culture has tried to keep as many jobs and structures as possible in this crisis. Yet, we were forced to pause cultural life temporarily. The special situation in March last year closed the theatre halls, and the second half of 2020 was undoubtedly difficult for the performing institutions. Most of the major festivals were canceled, and many amateur and school theatre festivals either moved to the web or were canceled. In the current situation, the Ministry of Culture had to rapidly develop aid measures for the sector as a whole, also ensuring their rapid implementation. The country's recent 25 million crisis measures have supported the sustainability of cultural life, but the important question is what the crisis has left behind for creation and the motivation of creators, the spirit power and the joy of creation. We will not see these effects until next few years. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! When it comes to the development of cultural policy over the last six years, I will start with the pay of cultural workers, which has been on a growing trend throughout the period. In 2014, the aim was to increase the pay of cultural workers and bring it to the level of the average wage in Estonia. At that time, the national minimum wage for cultural workers was EUR 732, with an average salary of EUR 1005. The scissors between Estonia's average gross wage and the minimum wage for cultural workers with higher education were therefore more than 30%. In 2020, Estonia's average salary was 1448 euros and the minimum fee for a cultural worker with a higher education was at least 1300 euros. So we have reached about 10% of the gap. I would like to make it clear that the national wage agreement with the Central Organisation of Trade Unions for Employees concerns cultural workers who receive a salary from the Ministry of Culture's budget, but this signicant progress has undoubtedly helped to equalise the situation in other cultural institutions as well. The TALO has called for the salary agreement to be extended to all cultural workers, regardless of the administrative authority of their employers. In the field of culture, there is an important and broad-based target group with no specific employers and irregular incomes. We are talking about freelance artists, whose number increased by 1100 during the period: from 4505 to 5632, or almost a quarter. We have been working throughout the whole period to ensure social guarantees for freelance artists, in particular health insurance. A study is currently underway which, for the first time, identifies specific concerns about the economic situation and social guarantees of freelance artists. The role of creativity in society has increased and the practices and forms of employment have changed. By analysing the bottlenecks of the Creative People's and Creative Unions Act, I hope that we can agree on new solutions in cooperation with creative areas this year and translate them into a draft amending the Act. One of the pillars of the continuity of the Estonian state is the belief of people in our culture and its continuity. The survival of our culture depends primarily on people who pass on culture and tradition to the next generation. The diversity of opportunities offered in the cultural landscape depends on whether we pass on the culture we have enriched with elements or whether culture loses its value for future generations. The country is working towards increasing opportunities for people to participate in cultural life through support programmes, cultural events and initiatives. Since 2014, the state has supported the development of a regional cinema network through the Cultural Endowment of Estonia and the acquisition of digital projection and sound equipment in cinemas, resulting in modern cinema viewing in all Estonian counties. This resulted in a number of smaller places, such as Võru, Tõrva, Kilingi-Nõmme, Kose, Põltsamaa, Mustvee, Rapla, Järva-Jaan and Vändra's new projection techniques, which significantly improved the availability of cinema art in Estonia. It is also positive that there are many different museums in Estonia, a total of 227. When travelling around Estonia, museums can also be found in smaller villages and almost everywhere there is an opportunity to participate in attractive and educational exhibitions. The interest in museums is high and the visitation of museums has increased considerably over the last decade. There are visitors both from Estonia and from outside. The theatre and dance can be taken outside the attraction centers by the "Theatre in the Land" support programme. For example, in 2016, 46000 people from all over Estonia participated in theatre art. There is a lot of positive, but we must certainly work to ensure that the opportunities for participation in culture in Estonian towns and rural areas are not too different. There is room for improvement because, for example, as many as 417 of the 966 art exhibitions held in Estonia in 2019, or almost half of them took place in Tallinn. There is certainly a need to find a balance here, because statistics show that the people of Tartumaa and Tallinn and the rest of Harjumaa were the most able to participate in the active cultural life, with 83% of the inhabitants of Valgamaa being the least able to participate: 64%. Thus, both the state and local authorities should continue to contribute to the regional availability and balance of culture. The creation of a cultural pack facility, reflected in the government's coalition agreement, will certainly contribute to this, which will increase the chances for young people to participate in culture. Theatrical performances and museum visits, which are impressive, want to be experienced by all members of society. I therefore consider it important to address the issue of accessibility. It is certainly positive that more attention will be paid to this year after year. For example, in 2018 the Ministry of Culture ordered the Estonian National Broadcasting to supply six films with a subtitling translation in Estonian for hearing impaired. During 2018, both Endla and Ugala theatre gave performances in the field of performing arts. For the Estonian Blind Library, a small amount of 5,155 sound and e-books, newspapers and magazines in Estonian and foreign languages have been produced every year and made available to 960 readers in the online library. In the case of museums, good examples are the Estonian Maritime Museum and the Estonian Art Museum with their educational programmes, which can be used by children, young people and adults with mobility, vision, hearing, intelligence and composite disabilities. The amendment to the Museum Act, which allows free or more favourable access to museums in the country to a number of vulnerable groups of society, has also helped. The launch of the Accessibility Task Force set up by the Ministry of Culture in 2019 is also marked. The first proposals on how to develop public space and its services accessible to all people over the next ten years are expected soon. We are no longer talking only about the ramps ahead of the theatre, but we are seeing the problem much more widely and there is also the will to solve them. Good ambassadors! The tradition of song and dance touches us all. That's the natural part of being us without which you can't even imagine yourself. As a bearer of national identity, the party movement is also rightly included in the UNESCO list of masterpieces of oral and spiritual heritage. Two general singing and dance parties and one young singing and dance festivals took place during the period 2014-2020. At the last Song and Dance "My Love" held in 2019, we celebrated the 150th anniversary of the first general song festival in Tartu. Although the tradition of song and dance seems to be strong and sustainable, the continuation of parties in the form we know of cannot be taken for granted to the end. The problems of young tutors in the Song and Dance movement have been recognised for years. The latest study, presented in 2019, found that the invitation of the instructor of young singing and dance festivals is not motivating, as it is not sufficiently remunerated and does not provide adequate protection for unemployment and health insurance. More than half of current supervisors will soon retire and the collectives will also not be economically sustainable. The tradition of the Song and Dance Party must not be underestimated in order to preserve our nation, language and culture, and therefore this year the labour cost support measure was launched for the instructors of the collectives involved in the song and dance movement. It will amount to EUR 2.7 million. Hopefully, this will motivate both parents and younger tutors to contribute to the survival of the UNESCO-listed tradition. In the development of the field of folk culture, the priorities are maintaining and valuing the cultural heritage of the people, maintaining the tradition of singing and dance and creating the prerequisites for development through operating grants to central and important regional organisations in the culture of the people. The strength of Estonian folk culture is a national heritage, and people who value and carry local customs and lifestyles pass it on to future generations, thus keeping folk culture viable. To support Estonian heritage culture, the Ministry of Culture has developed seven cultural space support measures: Setomaa, Kihnu, islands, Peipsiveere, Mulgimaa, Vana-Võrmaa and Virumaa. The aim of these programmes is to preserve the identity of the different regions, their linguistic specificity and their diverse culture. People's culture needs constant attention and commitment. In 2020, 79753 enthusiasts participated in active folk culture groups. This is a major indicator, but there is concern about the falling trend, which has been further driven by the crisis. The problem is obvious, but hopefully the concept of a support system for youth interest activities, developed under the leadership of the Ministry of Culture and implemented in 2017, aimed at increasing the participation of children and young people aged 7 to 19 in regular activities of interest, improving its availability and quality and ensuring a more diverse selection in all areas of Estonia. One of the main events in the field of folk culture was the presence of Setomaa Obinitsa village in the Finno-Ugric Capital of Culture in 2015. Obinitsa, as a small community, was able to make a major and important effort by forcefully raising the focus of her village, community and Seto culture to the Finno-Ugric peoples. In 2021 Abja-Paluoja will hold the title of the Finno-Ugric Capital of Culture. In two weeks' time, we will be holding another World Congress of Finno-Ugric Peoples in the Estonian National Museum, which bears our cultural heritage in Tartu, with the aim of developing and protecting the culture and languages of Finno-Ugric peoples and promoting cooperation between them. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I would like to speak separately about the welfare of the libraries of Estonia. In 2018, an important study was carried out among museums and library visitors and non-visitors. It turned out that 50% of all Estonian people visited libraries. Today, the library is no longer simply a book repository and its performance cannot be measured by the number of loans. Libraries have become an information, cultural and social environment, at the heart of the community. It is certainly important that the ever-expanding possibilities of the digital world do not reduce the possibilities of the library as a meeting place. It can be said that both this year and next year are very important in rethinking the role of libraries. A draft amendment to the People's Library Act and other related laws is being prepared at the Ministry of Culture. The most recent substantial changes to the law were made in 2007. Since the information society has evolved rapidly since then, the need for information and administrative-territorial distribution and organisation of the population has changed, the current law is no longer flexible enough to develop the network of libraries and to improve the quality of the services provided. Changes to the law will help national libraries to bring their services and infrastructure into line with the requirements of public services after administrative reform and with the needs of the information society and, in particular, of young people. 2022 is the theme year of libraries. More attention will certainly help to highlight the importance of libraries both at regional level and more widely as conservationists and developers of Estonian culture. The main leader of the year is the Estonian National Library, which will present its plans in the next few months. During the last six years, Estonian film art also received attention and impetus, and during these years the landscape has changed considerably. Since 2014, the state has increased its support for the film industry. While in 2014 the Ministry of Culture, Cultural Endowment and the Estonian Film Institute supported the industry with a total of 6.95 million euros, in 2019 the grant was 13.25 million euros and in 2020 crisis assistance was added. For the sector, 2018 was the year in which a successful film programme was implemented on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the Republic. The State's additional funding allowed the production of larger film projects, such as Truth and Justice. A total of five films, one full-length animated film, a documentary tape and a drama series came to the cinema thanks to the "Estonian Republic 100" programme. The Film Estonia support scheme, which has been implemented since 2016, facilitates the flow of foreign capital into Estonia and cooperation between Estonian and foreign film producers in the production of audiovisual works in Estonia. The scheme is funded by the Ministry of Culture and amounts to EUR 2 million per year. The production costs of audiovisual works produced in Estonia in cooperation between Estonian and foreign film producers will be supported, depending on the type of audiovisual work and the volume of costs, by 20% to 30%. The grant scheme was implemented last year as a flagship project, and as a result each euro granted in support brought back 3.32 euros to Estonia, which was spent in Estonia and thus generates additional tax revenue for the Estonian state. The attractiveness of the Estonian Film Estonia support programme as well as its profitability was confirmed by the partial film of Christopher Nolan's great film "Tene" in Tallinn in 2019. Between 2014 and 2019, the number of cinema visits in Estonia increased from 2.6 million to 3.69 million. The target was 2016 as the Estonian Pillifond was established in cooperation between the private sector and the state, whose main objective was to increase the international competitiveness of the Estonian language instrument culture and support the career of musicians. By the end of 2020, the Estonian Gill Fund had nine precious string instruments with a total value of over 1.5 million euros. The music sector was also stimulated by the celebration of the "Estonian Republic 100" anniversary, which brought about a share of additional funding already in 2017 and helped music organisations and artists to carry out more artistically ambitious projects than usual. The review of the past period cannot go past the Arvo Pärt Centre opened in 2018. Culture cannot be carried out without buildings and a number of important projects were carried out during the 20142020 period. The new building of the Estonian National Museum opened in 2016 on the Tartu Raad was certainly of the greatest importance. In addition, smaller investments and repair equipment in various parts of Estonia have been supported. I certainly consider it very important that large investments take into account the regional aspect and that the decisions taken support both access to culture and the balanced development of culture. In 2016, the government set the goal of creating Estonian language houses in Narva and Tallinn. Language houses now provide a complex service for language learning and integration, organise and coordinate Estonian language learning, support and develop the acquisition of the Estonian language and practical opportunities to use the language. People's interest is high and in 2020 free learning opportunities expanded from 2,500 to 5500. Recent integration monitoring confirms that Estonian language skills have increased and Estonian is considered important. The last six years will also include the transformation of heritage conservation activities, the adoption of the new Heritage Protection Act and the change of the role of the Heritage Protection Board. Another important step in the field of heritage conservation is the digitisation of cultural heritage. The cultural heritage programme was completed in 2018 in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Education and Research. Its aim is to make one third of the cultural heritage stored in Estonian memory institutions digitally available by 2023 and to upgrade the information storage infrastructure of memory institutions. In 2021, the preparation of the next action plan on digitalising and making available cultural heritage will be discussed. It is also important to talk about cooperation with the private sector, as culture is expensive and public finances are always less than needs. The Ministry of Culture thanks individuals and organisations who have supported culture financially over the years, or also through acts. A total of 209 approvals were distributed between 2014 and 2020. There have also been multiple nominations among these people. It is particularly positive that many cooperation relations are long-term and that the promotion of culture is increasingly seen as a shared task and objective between the state and the private sector. The crisis highlighted the need for such an approach for the private sector, and the greatest recognition belongs to all those who, despite uncertain times, have stayed with their partners. To sum it up. The years 2014 to 2020 have been favourable to Estonian culture and the state as a whole. The new initiatives presented to you will allow us to hope that culture will no longer only need resources, but will also be an important driver of added value and of the economy itself. Estonian culture is viable. We have both cultural participants and cultural creators everywhere in Estonia, in all age groups and in all areas. We face challenges in the field of culture, but with joint work and commitment, we can deal with them. We need to become increasingly aware that at a time when our country is celebrating the 30th anniversary of the restoration of independence, culture is the responsibility of all of us and the cause and purpose of our being our country, the work and care we all share. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U536	Thank you. It is now possible to ask the waitress questions. Each member of the Riigikogu can ask one question. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U537	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, My question comes about the education of interest. On page 15, this large report gives a good description of how the use of recreational education has increased among students, especially in the last three years. And special growth has been given by sport and music and art. I understand that, in principle, recreational education is a cross-cutting area that concerns the work of both the Minister of Education and the Minister of Culture. What we know now is that the country's budget strategy has been curtailed or is planning to cut the funding for recreational education. What do you predict: if this is the case, what happens to these numbers?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U538	Thank you very much for this question. As the good questioner said, this budget is really the subject of the Ministry of Education and Research, and the previous rapporteur would probably have given a more substantive answer. But the Ministry of Culture has also been involved in initiating this topic. And this initiative, this measure, has been a success, as the good questioner mentioned. Local authorities have contributed very much themselves over the years when the state has supported the education of interest. The main objectives of this programme or action have been diversification and availability. Diversity, as has been achieved, more new, additional so-called specialties, have not gained any more areas. I see that in the future this is what I said in my review a few times to deal with accessibility and regional concerns. We certainly have the goal of ensuring that all children, including in sparsely populated areas, have access to recreational education, even when they join the municipalities, where the centre has gone beyond some settlements. The Ministry of Culture has presented a programme for culture, which is smaller than the budget, but if I am not mistaken, the amount requested was still more than EUR 6 million. So far, this has not found support in the negotiations on the country's budgetary strategy, but this is a good initiative and we will certainly go back to the budget negotiations in the autumn with this request, which would allow basic school pupils to visit theatres, concerts and cinemas. This would certainly provide an additional opportunity to participate in the culture and to diversify the education of interest. What exactly is going to be these numbers, I don't know what to predict. But I hope that they are still in a growing trend and that local authorities will continue to contribute to the availability and diversification of recreational education. Negotiations on exactly how and with what volumes the country comes to the side are likely to continue in the second half of the summer and at the beginning of the autumn. Then you can give me more specific answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U539	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U540	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Minister, thank you for this review, but I do not know whether it is fortunately or unfortunately, but I must continue on the same subject that my colleague Mr Hepner raised: an education of interest. You yourself also mentioned at the meeting of the Committee on Culture that this programme or measure of interest education is one of the best and most important achievements in the implementation of the whole development plan for culture. You also said that the aim is to ensure access to recreational education also in small places, beyond the centres. At the same time, you are currently hiding behind the fact that this is the subject of another ministry and the Ministry of Culture, just as it does not. Let me understand that you approve of this approach and, in return, have received the money of this cultural pack of funds of the same order of magnitude as the withdrawal of interest from education? How did you react in the government when you heard that the money was being taken away from young people? After all, it was largely aimed at developing cultural areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U541	Thank you very much for this question. There were a lot of assumptions and opinions, I don't know if I could remember everything. But I'm trying to remember and answer. I'm certainly not saying it's none of the Ministry of Culture's business, I don't want to pin it on anyone else. But the fact is, it's in another ministry's budget. The Ministry of Culture is the one who developed this concept. I'm not rolling anything here, I'm saying it like it is. It is up to the Ministry of Education and Research to decide how the team sees this development more substantially and how to proceed with this programme. We can now look back in time to the period from 2014 to 20.20 if this programme worked well. The aim of this programme, as I said, was to diversify, and it has been achieved today. I've been talking to a good colleague about this. And his feedback is exactly that what has been achieved has been positive and that development is no longer so much visible. The objective of diversification has been achieved. There is certainly another issue of availability. And here, too, is the fact that the municipalities have really been a good partner for the country here, the municipalities have also contributed. There has certainly been no mention of a programme lasting until the end of time. This programme has had a time dimension. But it would be very important that the education of interest continues to be supported, there will then be one programme or another. Unfortunately, I cannot comment on the agreement you have mentioned. I didn't make that kind of deal. The Ministry of Culture presented the concept of cultural heritage in accordance with the programme of action of the Government of the Republic, and we requested funds from the budget strategy for this purpose. I don't know what the deal is that we didn't get those resources. So I don't know. That number isn't there right now, so can it be a deal? And each ministry will certainly consider its own resources, resources and wonders what are the most effective ways to achieve the goals set. This is certainly done by the Ministry of Education and Research.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U542	Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U543	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! I would like to thank you for the excellent overview that showed all listeners how broad the field of our culture is. I would like to thank you and the former cultural ministers for this, who will hear me. The question that prompted me to ask was that you talked about the general song and dance and I remembered the episode from the Committee on Culture when the fate or status of the young song and dance was discussed there. And we had to admit that there is such a tradition in Estonia that the Minister of Culture must fight for this funding in the office. This is not a 'fixed line' in the budget. As Minister of Culture, are you satisfied with the fact that every time a minister has to fight? And the horror, if this fight doesn't end positively.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U544	Thank you for your positive feedback! Indeed, the field of culture is wide, so I must admit that some of the passages I had planned to present here had to be deleted. In time, you just don't have time to talk about everything as basically as you would like. I must admit that I, too, was surprised when I went to ministerial office and looked at the Ministry's budget, that this is the tradition or practice of reapplying every time. That's exactly the question I had. But it turns out, luckily, that hasn't happened. I guess all ministers have been so capable and governments have appreciated this tradition. But why isn't it in the budget strategy as a base cost? I cannot tell you whether this somehow weakens this sustainability or whether we should not worry. These traditions are very firmly established. This is not an annual event, but, in budgetary terms, perhaps we can be sure that this funding is always guaranteed. However, the Ministry is analysing this situation now, we are looking at the solutions and making our proposals. Perhaps it should be that funding has already been agreed in the past and in the year preceding the party, the Ministry does not have to apply for this money separately in its own budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U545	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U546	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister of Culture, You outlined in your presentation what we all know very well: the impact of the pandemic year on culture. And, of course, it also affected all other areas. It is very good that there was so much support in the field of culture, it was an extremely necessary and absolutely right decision, all that you have made. But my question is that this whole year inspired creative people and other cultural people to view their work and activities in a slightly different way. It has been said that more concerts were still given and more digital opportunities were used. Would you appreciate the positive impact of this change? A few more words, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U547	Thank you very much for this question. I hope that in a week's time we will be able to look forward to the future with all of you and to discuss these issues even more than just having this debate over the period that has passed. But in a few words, I'm sure it's good to talk about it. There's an interesting subject for me, and I have to admit, I'm a little excited about what happens. At the moment, there is an open crisis adaptation measure in the Ministry, and perhaps I will be able to respond better in a little while. This support measure is more than 4 million and allows cultural operators to ask for aid with a maximum rate of EUR 200000. It is designed to reorganize its activities. It also shows how creatively and innovatively they view this difficult situation, how new opportunities are seen. I think it is very positive that we can support this with this additional budget support. Such support measures, not directly addressing crisis damage, certainly inspire and encourage thinking, perhaps offering, as they say, solutions out of the box.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U548	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U549	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister for Culture, thank you very much for your review and your comprehensive answer to questions. I listened in my office, and I was happy to see that what concerns universal access, access to hearing people and the blind, has gone on. A description translation is already being used so that these people are also guaranteed access to cultural experiences in the exhibition hall and theatre. But the question I want to ask is that you had a great opportunity today to stand on the giant shoulders of your predecessors and tell me what they did. There are currently at least two former ministers of culture in this hall of Urve, though at the moment, are walking out the door, and there was much talk about their activities here. What about the gambling tax and support for many regional projects? After all, the amount of gambling tax remains at a level that does not allow all former subsidies to be allocated. What about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U550	Thank you. Yes, there has been, I would say, a brief debate on the system of support for gambling tax. As far as I know, it's gonna be in this hall, too, so I don't know what's gonna happen to it. The honourable Riigikogu still decides that. As far as I know, the initial proposals have been tabled in the context of the discussion of the country's budgetary strategy, but final decisions are likely to have to be considered in the autumn and see how we will proceed with this. As you have just said, the honourable questioner, my predecessors have known this problem for some time. These discussions have been held longer than during this government alone. But what about it? Hopefully, however, the reductions that should arise as a result of this ceiling will be resolved. Perhaps we can still find a way out, so that the subsidy system cannot directly be cut because the money in this area is not reduced by this. We need to find other sources, make other choices.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U551	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U552	Thank you. I would first like to tell the Minister that this is not now a silo talk. This little silo culture of ours doesn't matter if the Ministry of Education slices hard at the expense of the future of culture. It is not correct in this sense that when we discuss the fundamentals of cultural policy up to 2020, this beautiful file contains what the state considers to be important. And the state considers it important that the organisation of education should take into account the importance of starting to acquire cultural knowledge and skills at an early age in order to ensure the subsequent growth of cultural players. To this end, cooperation between the state and local authorities must create opportunities for all education, including recreational and recreational activities. Period. The Commission received comments from interested parties on the initiation of the We did this program, and no one's said anything about this program being temporary. This program is designed to stay. And looking at how effective it is, it's a question of giving more money. And you can always make it better. I don't think it's worth getting behind the HTM here. Don't you have any agreement on this cultural pack next year? Let me get this straight. The RES doesn't have that money in it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U553	Thank you very much for your feedback and comments! I am not getting behind anyone and nothing, but I am speaking as it is: the budget is dealt with by the HTM. And that's their thing. Whether we consider it important or not is a completely different question. And here I have never said that this is not important, but I have said that it is important. I never said this program would go away. This program won't go away. This program continues. I have talked about cooperation with local authorities, I have talked about you also read it out loud that access to culture is important. And exactly what the Ministry of Culture has developed, it also applies. We're talking about creating additional opportunities for students. Yes, it is not currently included in the country's budget strategy, so the Ministry of Culture is going to apply for it in the autumn of next year's budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U554	All right. Looks like we've run out of questions. Thank you very much to the Minister. Now we have the opportunity to go to the negotiations, the representatives of the political groups can take the floor in the negotiations. Aadu Black has signed up for the Centre Party. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U555	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Good fellows! I came here not as a representative of the Centre Party, but as one of the surprising dinosaurs of the Riigikogu, who has some sort of picture of what has taken place in the intervening years, how we have moved on to where life, in which direction of disaster. In general, I remember the time I got to the Riigikogu. Then the lessons had already begun, but there was still a wave of singing revolution. We used to talk nice words, things were sometimes a problem. We all knew that culture was of huge importance in restoring the independence of the Estonian people. We were talking about a singing revolution. We came up with the name of such a great movement as the song festival movement, which was much more than just a choir song that would unite people in difficult times. We have now reached the point that we are continuing to talk about the importance of education, humanities education, social sciences and culture. Social sciences and humanities are a little better. At least after Brexit, other parts of Europe began to understand that they were important, and that they were national attributes. It's a little harder with culture. The main thing is that on the day of the feast, culture is immensely important to us and it exists. But look, if there isn't a holiday, on a weekday, we find it great that we have enthusiasts who keep rolling the cart. There is a great deal of enthusiasm for this. Looking from the perspective of the Committee on Culture, where I have almost been written down as a piece of furniture, it can be said that I have extremely positive memories and perceptions of the Committee on Culture, where, by the way, cross-party work has been going on for a long time. People had faith in education and culture, and now a little more party moment has come. But it's still been a very big effort to fix things. I also want to join in with those words that were flashing before. We really have to say thank you to a number of former ministers, although there were exciting moments in the past. But it is not nice to praise those present, or at least the children of Soviet times learned that there are no praises for those present. However, when you think about how brilliant cooperation we had with Indrek Saare, for example, when we were ahead of the development plan, but we found that more needs to be done. I have also thanked Indreku several times for saying that when the Baltic Assembly was in great trouble with its contacts and cultural work, the minister came and said that we would put together our forces. And where have we come from? Language policy was just discussed and I heard that we would translate all the more valuable literature into Estonian so that we would write all the dissertations in Estonian. And then I remembered what Indrek and I were talking about back then. The Baltic Assembly awards literary prizes, each year one: the best book in the Baltics. While Leelo Tungal was a happy person, he had long been translated into Latvian, Lithuanian, films have been seen. Then I asked: what about the Commission, the experts you elected this year to be the winner of the cultural prize? The answer was one Latvian. What's his name? At the end of the last name was the letter "S." And we are talking about cultural cooperation and we are talking about supporting cultural cooperation! We're talking about translating everything. But when Black comes to the budget during the negotiations and says that you know that more money is needed for the Baltic Assembly, it is actually found that there are more important things. Once again, I would like to say that the positive is enormously more. For example, a positive example that deeply touched me. I have studied how the cooperation between the authorities and also the rival route is working in Estonia: whether one ministry wants to pull the chair from under the other or especially to pull the money away. Well, a lot of people know that. In this sense, it was immensely sympathetic and we jointly contributed to it that the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Culture managed to bring to one mind that the National Library building, which is under the administration of the Ministry of Culture, does not make sense to manage it like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U556	We'll have three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U557	There's no point in burning emptiness and putting bread in one closet, bringing the National Archives to the National Library's house. Indrek nods. It was a very sympathetic idea, and there were several more synergistic moments. I could call that kind of thing again and again. But now there will be other things. I guess I'm used to 45 minutes, so I'm gonna finish up real quick, not telling you 90% what to do. This is where the subject of recreational education went through. I am personally, my little person is deeply offended by the solution that was now born. But my offense is only partial. In 1975, when Elsa Grechkina, I think Elsa Grechkina was discussing how to raise teachers' salaries, she said: but we're taking half the pay off from the singing teachers and coaches. My mother was a great teacher, for 40 years she led a mixed choir, and she did everything, and she was cut off half her salary. Since then, I feel anger and rage. You can assure me, Heiki, that I went to the government union. It's an interest education take away money... At the same time, the local authorities say that we agree to give us money and do not label it. If the overall funding is growing, we are not very mutiny about it, it was the money for the education of interest or not. So there's a lot of things, and I'm saying one thing and telling you one thing, but it's still insulting, damn it. And the final comment is that I feel anonymous guilt syndrome. You can say that I have repeatedly spoken about this in the Commission, a few times I have said that in the Russian era, during the consultative period, it was easier. Moscow was guilty. Why don't they fucking do it! Right now I feel like we've done a lot of good, but what's still not done... I still feel like there's no reason to say anything wrong to anyone else, so I go to the mirror and I say, "Hey, it's not done." I rather have the call to continue, at least in the Committee on Culture and in the field of culture, the good constructive cooperation that has been with previous ministers for culture and which still exists today. Let's not let it go down! It's the worst that can be. Let us do this by supporting in the field of culture when money is still needed when mistakes need to be corrected. There's a lot of them, and then we'll be critical. And I am not saying that in the field of culture there is no very poor qualification in some areas. But if they don't teach and pay, no wonder people can't. It doesn't help if we say you're really good, even though you're not good at anything. I mean the digital world and so on. Thank you. We preserve our culture and try to cooperate more than we have done so far!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U558	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U559	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Members, who love your culture so much that you will survive through the night! Minister, thank you very much. It was very nice to hear the presentation of cultural policy, and it was even nicer to hear how culture and education really do one thing. I would really like to begin by congratulating and thanking you for bringing parallels on how library work helps to meet educational goals, how our tradition of song festivals is, on the one hand, the foundation of our cultural identity, language, nationalism, and we are concerned about the low budget of choir leaders. Such needs certainly need to be met more. Similarly to previous speakers, I am concerned that our education of interest is not sufficiently supported. And maybe just a thought for the coalition partners. Our common concern also calls for certain priorities to be set. Indeed, it is well said when it is said that we are looking at your budget, and we understand what you really value. I expect us to take apart those things together that may have been decided on earlier. I see that there is money to support recreational education on the free bus route, and as a young Member, I very much hope that taboos of this kind will not be taboos, but will be taken up and seen that if we need to save culture, we will be asked where this budget line is sitting. I think we could save free higher education in the same way. Estonia's sustainability is certainly behind this. I am absolutely sure that the people of Estonia would understand this if we changed our list of priorities. So I believe that the solutions are certainly in our cooperation, in our wise decisions. Unfortunately, Estonia's cultural and educational affairs have remained for night hours in this Parliament to discuss, but they are at the heart of the Estonian people and are most important for the survival and development of the Estonian people. Let us make wise decisions, and the people have a future! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U560	Indrek Saar, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U561	More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U562	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U563	Ladies and gentlemen, The procedural part first. We pointed out here at the beginning of the week that if we plan such discussions on strategy papers, they could find better places on the agenda. The development plan for the Estonian language would certainly have deserved a more in-depth discussion. This document, too, would certainly deserve much more attention, especially in the upheavals in which we are now living, as a result of the choices that the Government Union has made, by going relatively brutally, with its cut-off, namely, to the cultural field and precisely to the longer-term and future of the cultural sphere. I think it would have deserved much more attention in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. But we know that on Wednesday night, during the beautiful summer worlds, this should not be expected, and this could also have been foreseen by the Board of the Riigikogu. As a result, I have, including our experience and observation of the time of discussing the fundamentals of sport policy, a request to the Board of the Riigikogu, the Committee on Culture, which is the leading commission in this area, and also to the Minister, so that we can make an agreement that we will not allow these things to be put into the last points of the night on Wednesday. Secondly, we could give those who want to hold a substantive debate an opportunity to ask the Minister more than one question. This possibility exists in the procedures of the Riigikogu and in fact many would have liked to ask questions. A procedural arrangement could also provide us with better quality in the design of cultural policy. I think this area is worth it anyway. But I will now come to this report. First of all, I believe that Estonian culture is sustainable regardless of what is currently being decided at political level. However, in many ways, this sustainability is also influenced by political decisions. That is why it is very important that we have an agreement in the form of the fundamentals of cultural policy, because what we deny there does not want to imagine a situation where there is no such long-term agreement and every time a new minister goes to the Ministry, he thinks that now I will change everything. It would then be much easier to turn around overnight in the sectoral agreement, which should be sustainable and longer-term. And I am not sure that this would be useful for Estonian culture. That was ironically said, but I don't think that's a good idea. After all, we have seen that the ministers of culture do not always understand that they cannot act like elephants in the porcelain shop in this area, or that they are actually unable to defend their area at government level, whether there is a debate on a principle or on the issue of money. I therefore think that it is important to thank those who once put together this document, and I hope that the next document will be even better, and that the tracks we are going to follow will be even clearer. There were many ways of talking about availability here today. I think this is a very important aspect. I am pleased that the Minister mentioned this and that it will continue to be dealt with systematically and will seek to ensure that people with special needs also have access to culture, both as a viewer and as a participant. Indeed, it is no longer just a matter of ramps, although we are also missing them in cultural objects and sports objects. If we now come to the issues where we need to be critical, unfortunately, one of the major concerns that we face from this document and also from the Minister's review is the salaries of cultural workers. We have taken very great steps in recent years to get close to Estonia's average salary with the salaries of cultural staff with higher education. I made it to the point that I think 7% was missing. It's also beautifully listed in this table. The Minister said that 10% is missing now, but in fact there is already a significant increase. The average wage in 2020 was 10%, and the average wage in 2021 is even higher and in 2022 it is also rising. The initial agreement on salaries in the RES shows that this gap is still torn up in 2022. So, very quickly, we fall far beyond this goal again. I would put it to the Minister's heart that it is not that singing and dancing circles take place anyway, as the Prime Minister said. It's not like that! If people aren't paid, they don't happen. People have to be paid. They do this work with dedication and enthusiasm as a rule, yes, they are fanatics who don't funny change specialties. But if they are forced to do so because they can no longer cope, or if they have to divide their talents between a hundred different things in order to cope in any way, the result is not what could be. I'm very critical of opening up the Gambling Tax Act. It's something that could otherwise have been protected so that this percentage wouldn't be reduced. As soon as they hit it, it opens Pandora's box. The brow has been wanted to be broken like this many times. We have repeatedly admitted that, thank God, it has not succeeded. Let us recall the previous crisis. What did that really mean? The then Minister of Culture also said that, oh, well, from the projects of cultural and sporting objects, we'll take some money off, they're small things and they'll come back one day. Actually, a lot of things never came back. If you are taken away from business for several years, small NGOs, small leaders will shut down the store and start doing something else, and there may be no more activity in that corner of the country. So, going after the instruments from the gambling tax, taking this money away from regional cultural projects is a very bad idea. And in conclusion, of course, recreational education and recreational activities. The Minister himself stressed that accessibility was a very big issue. We saw that this measure, with the money that was added, took a very big step forward. More than 30% of the number of children participating in an interest education increased. That's nearly 30,000 kids. Nevertheless, this means that only a little over 60% of children are regularly involved in recreational education. Almost 40% of children do not reach this point and not because they do not want to deal with it under any circumstances. Most children should receive an education of interest, and we actually have a long way to go in this area. But we're gonna cut this piece off! This is a good example of how silo towers are also placed at political level and it is said that this is not a spending line for our ministry. The future of culture is a matter for the Minister of Culture. The future of culture is very firmly anchored in the education of interest. Thank you for your attention and I'm sorry I went over time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-02_U564	Thank you. There's no more calls. The negotiations are closed and our debate is closed. The hearing is also adjourned. Thank you.
