ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, It is Tuesday and we will begin the Tuesday session of the 11th working week of the VI session. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please! We don't see that wish, so we can go to the presence control. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U2	72 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a message for you. Such situations sometimes occur where something needs to be reported. Today, I am pleased to announce that, after the sitting, there will be a meeting in this Chamber of the Estonian-Montenegro Parliamentary Group, convened by my colleague Kalvi Tõud. The Kalvi has already prepared the papers, so if you want to join the Montenegrin parliamentary group, you are welcome to do so, and you can also report your wishes to [Kalvi Tõud] on an ongoing basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U3	But let us not immediately create this mess, because we do have important points on the agenda today, and the first item is the debate on the key national issue of the 'Price crisis in the electricity market', initiated by the Special Committee on Public Budget Control. [[It's ringing the bell.]] Let's talk about how we're going to deal with this point today. First of all, Urmas Reinsalu, chairman of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, has given a presentation for up to 20 minutes, and the Commission has asked for 30 minutes for questions and answers. Then the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Asa, will give a presentation for up to 20 minutes and a half hour for questions and answers. The third is Arvi Hamburg, Chairman of the Energy Council of the Estonian Academy of Sciences, whose presentation is up to 20 minutes and the questions and answers half an hour. I would point out that members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to ask each of the rapporteurs a question. After the presentations, we will open negotiations and the request is that I speak first during the negotiations with the representatives of the political groups and then with all the other people who wish. We have also received a proposal from the initiator to extend the sitting until 2 p.m. if necessary, but we will come to that later. Mr. Grünthal, I see you have a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U4	Thank you, Mr President. My question concerns the fate of our good colleague, the President of the Riigikogu, Jüri Ratas. You said he was self-insulated for five days to avoid infecting others. Unfortunately, it is known that the esteemed Jüri Ratas have been in South Estonia yesterday and have been there to eat, and the entire South Estonian press and people know that. Question: what's going on? Is it a job or is it not self-isolation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U5	Mr Grünthal, this has nothing to do with the procedure for conducting the sitting. This is not a procedural question. We will go to the first item on the agenda of the sitting, which is the OTRK 'Price crisis in the electricity market', and I would like to ask for a chair of speech by Urmas Reinsalu, Chairman of the Special Committee on State Budget Control. Mr. Reinsalu, the chair is waiting.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U6	Honourable representative of the people! Parliamentary is the place where the message is given to Estonian society, the people of Estonia, about the problems that our country is facing. Estonia is currently facing an energy crisis, which has resulted in an uncontrolled increase in energy prices. As of today, the price of the megawatt of electricity is estimated to be EUR 205, which is, in large part, six times higher than the price level in 2020 on average. You know, I listened to the fact that the representative of the Reform Party vexed the Estonian Minister of Economic Affairs because the Minister of Economic Affairs dared to bring the problems of Estonian people and Estonian entrepreneurs into this hall in his statement yesterday, then this morning at 9:41 a.m. I received a worrying and serious letter from Sirje Potistep, Head of the Estonian Food Industry Association. With his permission, I'll quote a few sentences. "We can give examples, in particular, of large companies, where, for example, the amount of electricity and gas has risen five times. Indeed, food industries have faced an extremely steep increase in the price of inputs in a short period of time. I personally [so the representative of the companies who wrote to me] do not remember this drastic increase in the prices of the production components. And, of course, the increase in the cost of production inputs affects food prices because, in the current situation, there is no margin for action and the facts cannot be denied. It is not possible for the food industry to continue production at previous prices in this situation. The price of electricity has risen to companies in the food industry [represents the person who turned to me] on average 2.5 times, with the current probably three-to-four-fold increase. Over 1.6 euros are charged for petrol, five times the price of gas [has increased] and a further 28% will increase in the new year. " End of point. I do not agree with the views of those who, after yesterday's debate, say that we must exclude both the concerns of business representatives and people from the debate in Parliament. On the contrary, Parliament must be the place where people's problems come to. A representative must intervene if the government does not have the will to make decisions. I therefore sincerely want to congratulate the Minister for Economic Affairs for yesterday's extraordinary statement, which was specifically linked to the energy crisis and the open approach to possible alternative solutions. I do not agree with the view of the representative of the Reform Party that consumers are responsible for this crisis. No, it's a completely wrong approach. The responsibility lies precisely with the government. If the government is unable to make decisions, the representative of the people must direct the government to take decisions concerning the development of easings to the energy crisis. The representative of the Reform Party stated in yesterday's debate that nothing could be done and pointed out that it was precisely the Minister for Economic Affairs that should have said so. However, the Minister for Economic Affairs did not say this, but the Minister for Economic Affairs pointed out that there is a short-term package of alternative measures, both for domestic consumers and for businesses, and it is our duty in today's debate to look for answers to these possible measures. As of today, the government has decided that, firstly, a reduction of 50% in network charges will be implemented for three months this year and three months next year. Secondly, already in October, through its press release, the government promised lower-income consumers that, in the case of invoices rising from a certain price horizon, 80% of the gas, district heating and electricity bills would be paid. At yesterday's meeting, the State Budget Control Commission discussed the preparation for the implementation of these measures. The network fee measure has been implemented, of an administrative nature. It was easy to implement. However, it is regrettable to note that the under-insured consumer compensation measure is unfortunately stuck behind official bureaucracy. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance, who attended yesterday's meeting, considered that the implementation of this measure would require IT development of databases and would not be completed until next year. It can be assumed that the implementation of this measure will only take place in January next year. This is a very serious problem precisely for those most price sensitive people, tens and tens of thousands of people in Estonia who are facing the end of Christmas and the year, but the instruments of this measure, which they already have three months' legitimate expectation at the end of the year as decided by the government, are not available. The Ministry of Finance's official comforted and said that it was actually more comfortable for officials, in the sense that money should be paid out after several months and once every month it would be more convenient than monthly. But no doubt what is more convenient for officials, whether they are municipal or public officials, does not mean that it is more convenient for consumers. For consumers, for vulnerable families, it is not a question of convenience, but of coping and coping. The question now is what are the options that have been addressed to both businesses and households to address the electricity price crisis rapidly. One clear option is to eliminate the charges for renewable energy for consumers. This is a proposal that different political forces have also made in this Chamber. In a consumer-neutral way, it would be win-win for both businesses and households in the middle order of EUR 100 million. The second measure, also referred to yesterday by Minister for Economic Affairs, Taavi Aas, is the reduction of VAT on energy carriers. According to the analysis prepared by Arvi Hamburg, the President of the Energy Council of the Estonian Academy of Sciences, the price gain for domestic consumers would amount to 225 million euros during the next financial year. EUR 225 million. This measure could be implemented by means of a legislative amendment, given that the beneficiaries of this measure are those companies selling district heating, gas or electricity. It can be implemented in a very short period of time. I have the conviction that Parliament, listening to the feedback of the political forces, will be able to gather in an extraordinary way to make [a decision that will enter into force] as of 1 January. This requires only the political will of the government, which is regrettably lacking today. Government critics have stated that this measure will also help the rich. Reducing VAT on electricity, gas and district heating is also a win-win for the rich. But I think that our greatest mistake in this crisis would be to confront Estonian society, to say that some are rich, whether they be entrepreneurs, farmers, shopkeepers, shop owners, factory owners and households, who are more prosperous, and on the other side there are people with lower incomes. I think that this is the most fundamental error in resolving this crisis, and therefore I have to admit that the fact that we are going to pay off most of the people's electricity bills instead of finding a solution for society as a whole in the energy crisis shares two sections of society in the same way. The proposal put forward by the Minister for Finance last week is to raise the limit on the support measure for vulnerable families by the income of the first family member to EUR 1050. The Minister of Finance expressed the idea that the government had reached an agreement on this. I can inform Parliament and the Estonian public that during yesterday's discussions with the officials it became clear that this decision has not actually been taken by the government. If this decision were taken, as an alternative to other measures, it would mean a huge administrative burden for hundreds of thousands of people. I would like to give an example of what one Member of the Commission pointed out at the meeting of the Commission: this means placing 20000 families in a situation where everyone has to apply for poverty aid from the municipality alone in the case of the city of Narva. The representatives of the municipalities stated that this was a large and complex administrative burden. Moreover, I would like to point out that there is a problem that has not been fully developed as regards the determination of people's income in terms of living together in the household, with regard to ownership income, dividend income, income from the disposal of assets and all the other issues that Parliament was facing, for example, when implementing the tax reform. This circle of topics is completely unfinished. The next question, which was dealt with at yesterday's meeting of the National Audit Committee, was the possibility of undertaking a reform of the electricity market in Estonia. The reform of the electricity market would mean that small consumers would be given the opportunity to join the electricity package over the counter. This package would be required to be offered by the electricity producer in the dominant position, Eesti Energia in the Estonian Nord Pool price region, and this would be done on the basis of the competition authority's principle of price coordination. Yesterday, the Director of the Competition Authority confirmed to the Commission that this measure could be implemented with a short delay. It complies with the rules of the European Union. In accordance with the principle laid down in EU rules, the cost of the CO2 quota can also be compensated for by vulnerable consumers. This would mean that the price level of such a package would be approximately EUR 50 megawatt-hour. This decision is in no way contrary to the responsibilities of Estonian membership in the European Union and it is possible to make this decision right here in this Chamber. This requires, firstly, the legislator's willingness to define electricity as a universal service and, secondly, the willingness to impose this obligation on the dominant undertaking. The Director of the Competition Authority informed Parliament, the Special Committee on State Budget Control yesterday, that such a decision was taken by Hungary precisely these days, which took the decision that smaller companies and all households would first be able to join this universal service package and that those consumers would be compensated for the price of the CO2 quota. This possible model for reforming the electricity market is no precedent for creating a European environment. For small consumers, the Nord Pool price region offers electricity as a universal service in Lithuania, for example, France in the wider European Union countries. Speaking of what would be possible to cover these short-term but acute instruments to mitigate the electricity price crisis, this cover is actually the money that is received from Estonian consumers under the current regulation. I would like to point out that, if the 2021 budget was approved on the basis of such a price horizon that the CO2 quota fee will be paid to the state budget in the order of EUR 80 million, this amount will actually amount to more than EUR 200 million this year. Eesti Energia alone predicts that they will have to pay more than 300 million euros in CO2 quota money in the next financial year. In addition, the increase in energy prices also means that the state will receive more VAT, at least EUR 150 million. The energy price crisis is not just a price crisis linked to the next few months, but only to cold weather in the coming days or weeks. This is a misleading perception of the public, society, consumers and businesses. The price cap on the CO2 quota unit has already reached a price level of EUR 84 in the EU emissions trading system this year. The maximum dome for next year is 130 euros, and we do not have the slightest confidence that this maximum level will not be reached in this Chamber today. The second set of issues relates to the fact that the energy price crisis and its acute measures are precisely the responsibility of the government. If the government is unable to make these decisions, Parliament's benevolent but firm pressure is also linked to the obligation of due diligence to ensure reserve power for energy production in Estonia. In 2019 the government decided that Eesti Energia has an obligation to ensure a minimum reserve capacity of 1000 megawatts. This has been decided until the end of 2022, together with the financial implications, but regrettably, the government has not taken a decision on the provision of reserve capacity since the beginning of 2023. This message must be clear from this hall: we must ensure the security of electricity in Estonia, but also in the interests of consumers, the capacity which would be minimal to ensure the power generation capacity of a large part of the production sources managed on Estonian territory. Dear Members, Today's day, where we are next year, begins in weeks, means that we must find courage and, as the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure said yesterday, overcome dogmatic and day-to-day positions and find solutions that are in the national interests of Estonian consumers, Estonian economy and Estonia. Electricity is a vital service in our modern society, but also in our climate zones, in our climate environment, and households and businesses must have an understanding of what its price will be. We cannot imagine that we are only a small and helpless ship in the sea, on whom nothing depends. I think that the starting point for this debate is that we are the masters of our own decisions, the masters of our own energy policy, and we must dare to take decisions that are not just declarative or seeming, but actually solve problems. Good luck with today's debate! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U7	Let's move on to the questions. Aivar Chef begins. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U8	Good manager! Good waitress! First of all, thank you for this report! What is your sense of government following events to solve the energy crisis? Would it not be time today to start a reform of the electricity market and give our people the opportunity to buy electricity directly, which would cost less than 50 euros per megawatt-hour rather than pay hundreds of euros per megawatt-hour?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U9	This decision is tangible, it is in line with the rules of the European Union and it is in my opinion that the decision is fully in line with the interests of all Estonian consumers. Those who claim that the content of the proposal for a reform of the electricity market is the total departure of Estonia from the Nord Pool exchange system. On the contrary, it must be about giving consumers freedom of choice. Who wants to test their happiness in the stock exchange system, participate in possible 1000-euro megawatt-hour price levels, [will be able to do so], but consumers must be able to obtain additional electricity when we talk about small consumers whose order of magnitude is a larger part of the structure of the Estonian economy than we talk about 5 sharp electricity consumption per year. These consumers must have this opportunity. The situation is now completely grotesque. The Narva plants produce electricity. This price level, without adding the CO2 quota pollution charge to the unit, also calculating a reasonable profit, is likely to amount to less than EUR 50 per megawatt. And then it turns out that it's like we don't know how to set a price. The Estonian people are so stupid that they cannot determine the price on their own, but send a telegram to Helsinki. Electricity is still on Estonian territory. The telegram goes to Helsinki, is stamped and the message comes back: yes, the price is 500 or 1000 euros, you see. I think that when we talk about this stock market as a symbol of the free market economy, it is a grave mistake. There is, in fact, no uniform energy price throughout this stock exchange zone, this energy price has profound speculative distortions and, of course, this stock exchange system undoubtedly motivates energy producers to produce more in the electricity deficit in which we are in Nord Pool, but also in the whole territory of the European Union, with regard to climate objectives, and there is nothing wrong with that. But this is actually happening in a situation where we must be guided by the fact that even if all domestic consumers want to use the OTC package from the Nord Pool system, the deficit means that all Estonian electricity producers can easily produce electricity from the Nord Pool system and it has consumers. So since the government has not made decisions in the current situation, I say this is my personal objective view: the current Estonian government is in a political crisis. We have to be honest with you in this hall. And this political crisis means that on the most important issue, the most acute issue concerning the Estonian economy, Estonia's energy, Estonia's security interests in the wider sense, it is not possible for the government to make critical, acute decisions and this is undoubtedly a central problem in the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U10	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U11	Thank you. An objective view of what you're doing should come from the side, not from the other. What you are doing now, how you are warming up in the light of this crisis, will, of course, remind you of how you did not exist as Minister of Foreign Affairs, but you went to the airport to get masks from passing planes and posed there, even though these planes did not bring masks to Estonia and you had nothing to do with it. But you are now on the Special Committee on State Budget Control. We should consider how this issue can be linked to the state of the state budget and to the direction of the flow of money. After all, the state budget is collected from taxes and something is done together. After all, your path is that money must only flow one way out of the state budget, and instead of the taxpayer, it is the consumer whose bills are paid. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Please explain this contradiction. What is the state of the state budget now, how did your Commission discuss it, and by what means can the money in theory be paid into the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U12	Time, Jurgen!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U13	Thank you, populated questioner! I think there is a very offensive point of reference to these masks or something else. Yes, I think, as members of the government, we all dealt with these issues, both internationally and within the country, in the most acute corona virus crisis. There's nothing inappropriate about that. The second round of topics relating to the state of the state budget. Honorable questioner! The inflation rate in Estonia in November was 8.8%, which is actually about the increase in the cost of living. What amazes me is that you are so alien to life and you do not understand that this also means that institutions receiving money from the state budget should they be theatres, be they different institutions to the reduction in the purchasing power of money. There is no more acute or more serious issue than the problem of overall inflation caused by rising energy prices. If we look at the possibility of alleviating the inflation of energy carriers, above all as a result of reducing inflation, then this option is certainly fiscal measures above all. It is precisely the reduction in VAT that could be a central measure, because we can control inflation with at least one-and-a-half, if not twice the leverage effect, for this money, too, and we must not miss that. The spirit of giving up, that we are so helpless, we cannot make decisions and let everyone go, we survive, we can manage, we must resist, it is not, in fact, a credible approach in an independent country in a crisis environment. It seems to me that it is not acceptable for most of the representatives of the people of this Chamber to accept the circumstances and the whole story. There must be no such submissive attitude.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U14	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'd like to criticize you a little bit. You were right on several occasions in your introductory speeches to acknowledge the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. But I don't really understand that recognition. Last Wednesday, when I asked the Minister what he was going to do about the price of electricity, I think he had come up with the idea of reducing VAT. As far as I know and understand, he didn't have any allies in the government on Thursday, he doesn't have any allies in his party or government. Have you understood what this government is planning to do? Really, the fact that the Minister worries and talks is correct and understandable. But in fact, it is the only minister who can do something besides talk. Have you understood what the Minister is planning to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U16	Thank you. I qualified this statement by the Minister for Economic Affairs as a cry for help in yesterday's debate, and I also take that view today. In reality, the government has proven to be politically incapable of making practical decisions in this toolbox, which, in terms of financial coverage, in terms of regulatory coverage, and in terms of our responsibilities as a Member State of the European Union, is not capable of making such decisions, but is it, either in some form of economical, ideological or real-life separation? I think that, in this situation, the point made by the Minister for Economic Affairs deserves recognition. The Minister for Economic Affairs did not propose concrete solutions yesterday. I think the message was actually that the Minister for Economic Affairs made an extraordinary appeal to Parliament, which in reality did not have a comprehensive mandate for political decisions by the government. Now, as I understand it, the Minister for Economic Affairs has expressed his support for reducing the VAT on electricity. We have also talked seriously about issues concerning the implementation of the reform of the electricity market. We have this toolbox. We can't say we're like headless chickens or chickens in a hurry. We have a financial cover that will be received from Estonian consumers as additional estimated taxes. The situation, we have to understand, it's two stories. In addition to the so-called market price increases, the State amplifies this price pressure by charging it further in terms of market logic. We have the money, and these decisions must be made. The fact that the government is in a political crisis is not an excuse for the people of Estonia. It is not an excuse for us not being able to make these decisions, and time is running out. On the radio last week, I think the Prime Minister said to the people of Estonia that if the weather gets warm, if it is summer, it will be lighter and warmer. Is this our perspective in a situation where we have a real real price crisis, which we do not remember, as I read out, in the perspective of humanity? In the summer, we are lighter and warmer, I think we must not accept this approach in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U17	Heiki Hepner, please! Mr. Hepner!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U18	Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! Sending hundreds of thousands of people to ask for support actually means a huge bureaucratic cost, and that is what you rightly referred to. In my opinion, it would be more reasonable not to do so and, with this amount, to support those in need and not to worry about suddenly the rich receiving a few cents of this aid. But my question now, in fact, is whether you have seen any socio-economic accounts of how much money it takes to pay off this support, because there are also a number of municipalities back there that should carry it out. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U19	Yes, it is a very complex issue in two respects. The first question is a moral perspective. When we talk about this proposal, which is on the table of the government, the median income per first member of the family actually means that half of the workers are already in it. Secondly, we must assume that it includes all non-workers, let us say non-working pensioners and also their family members. This means that, on a large scale, we are talking about two thirds of the Estonian people. We have reached a moral situation with such a proposal, which reminds us of 1992 and Tiit Vähi's reign, where the decision was taken that several hundred rubles would be paid to Estonian families, the whole people, in connection with the electricity and cost of living crisis. I think it is morally unacceptable to place the whole of society in a situation in which two-thirds of the people, in their hands, must start running to the municipalities in this crisis. This does not mean that we should not develop real solutions that mitigate the crisis in energy prices, but these solutions must be uniform for the whole of society. [It is stated] the reason that we do not do this because then the rich will win. Then the rich will win, you can imagine. The rich have an apartment, and the rich have a house. Well, he won't be burning ten houses by the end of the day. But this reasoning shows that this is a very restrictive and disparate concept of this problem. There is a whole nation in this mess, and there is a responsibility on the part of the government, and it is also the responsibility of Parliament to bring the whole nation, society as a whole out of this crisis, or at least to develop fast-acting mitigation measures. What concerns practical costs and a practical organisational complex of problems is extremely high and extremely dangerous. The second question is that all this human mass, hundreds of thousands of people, like during the monetary reform, will have to start moving in January, with these statements in hand, to the parish houses and city governments. This organizational threat, which is being created, is undoubtedly massive. That has to be taken into account. Certain measures, certain financial compensation, are foreseen, as notified by the Ministry of Finance officials, for the implementation of this measure by the Government. But I do not think it is a question of implementation, but it is precisely a question of moral terms, where we declare two thirds of our people to be energy poverty, who must start, hand to hand, to ask for subsidies. I would point out how shortsighted this temporal perspective is. We are not talking about establishing permanent solutions, we are talking about only 90 days in the next financial year. And then it seems that those who make these proposals believe that the end of history will come. It's deeply misleading. We know that the forecasts of the CO2 quota price unit, which was the basis for last year, have not kept water at all and, similarly, we have no confidence in the energy deficit in which the energy production in the countries of the Nord Pool zone is currently located. We have no conviction that we will achieve a level that was the cost of the electricity price last year or the year before, in accordance with the principles of the exchange system.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U20	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U21	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good colleague! [I ask] about the moral perspective you speak of. I'm listening to your report right now. The Fatherland has been an apologetic and visionary of the free market economy. Mart Laar wanted to put the principle of budgetary balance into the Constitution a decade ago. In the 1990s, I think there was no electricity at night in Kihnu in 1991, it was turned off because there was no diesel heating from which to produce it. In 1994, there was no hot water in the maternity home of Pelgulinna. We were in such an energy crisis. For the last two years, the same Nord Pool has offered us a 30-euro electricity price. For two months now, the price of electricity has been high and not at all due to the activity or failure of the Government of the Republic of Estonia. Dear colleague, you will come here to the speaker's desk and begin to dismantle the upbuilding for 25 years. Isn't that kind of immoral in perspective?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U22	Thank you, good questioner! But we've come back to this 25-year-old. I think we've all been in contact with our loved ones, with our acquaintances, with people who have approached us, who are currently cutting electricity consumption in a very grotesque way in order to protect their families, to protect their incomes. This is the situation we're in right now. The question of whether a possible proposal for a reform of the electricity market means putting an end to the electricity exchange, one of which is to first identify a price on the product and, secondly, to ensure security of supply through price competition, then no, that is not the case. As I emphasised, the aim of the reform of the electricity market is precisely to give consumers freedom of choice. Let's ask ourselves what stock exchange this is. I'll light the light in the room, put it out, the burning lights in this hall. Give me a pick of that cheap electricity on the stock market, will you? When we talk about household customers, this electric stock exchange is today structured in such a way that the highest price level of the offer actually determines the price level. Listen, can we make sure that if we are home consumers and if we go to a store, we say that somebody is willing to pay 50 or 100 euros for a loaf of bread in a fancy restaurant in Tallinn, and that's what the price of bread in Selver or Maxima is gonna be tonight? We must be guided by this: if there are any things, of course, I would not call for us to abandon this stock exchange system as a whole. As I said, we have energy producers, make a profit, I don't mind. Let's create new power. We have a deficit of electricity in the whole Nord Pool system, a screaming deficit, as we can see, and given the acceptable climate targets, this deficit is growing, not shrinking. However, this cannot be the case where we have our own dominant company, a state-owned company, a state-owned company that produces electricity at this price and we say: no, we cannot, we do not know how to price the people of Estonia, small consumers. This company's got all the boilers blowing. On the contrary, electricity stays in Estonia, as I said, but we must send a letter to Helsinki: give us [price], we are so stupid, we cannot set a price. We will then bring it to less than EUR 50, but the stamped paper will come back from Helsinki: please set the price at EUR 500, EUR 300, EUR 200. I think that our society in a stress environment such as that in which we are in all of these crises requires a certain degree of predictability in terms of consumption input, but in terms of input into economic activity, such as electricity. We're faced with nothing. Everyone is talking about forecasts, but it has to be acknowledged that these forecasts are unfortunately written on water in the medium term, they may not hold. And that actually means that we have to ensure some sort of stability in this confusion, in the terrible danger that society is facing. This solution is not to ban the stock exchange system, to isolate itself, but, on the contrary, to domestic consumers, small consumers, who are most energy consumers in Estonia, to offer the possibility of obtaining off-exchange universal service electricity. I would point out that this is nothing unique. This system, indeed, in the transition phase, applies today to Nord Pool's pricing system in Lithuania and no one says that Lithuania is some kind of military Communist state.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U23	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I think it is crucial to address this issue. This is extremely important for the Estonian state and Estonian citizens. Indeed, if we buy electricity from Helsinki, or Nord Pool, this morning we could read in the media that we are about to buy biomass from the Leningrad region. The Committee on the Environment has not yet begun to discuss cutting volumes in the context of the forestry development plan, although there has been a signal that they should be reduced, and we are already discovering ourselves in a situation where Eesti Energia says that it controls the market in Russia, because it is no longer possible to obtain wood chips from Belarus, they are starting to deserve it as a pellet. And that's where I'm gonna raise the question. We blame our European partners for their economic relations with Russia, especially in a situation where the situation in Ukraine is very tense. How do you look at this side?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U25	Well, we're actually buying oil products and gasoline from Russia. If pragmatic choices are made on the basis of where the price is cheaper and where the goods are available, I think we must certainly bear in mind the prospect of energy security, which is that there is no doubt that there is a real risk that Russia will block the market through politically motivated decisions, as we see today throughout the territory of the European Union. The fact that, on one or the other technological pretext, gas supply capacity has fallen from Russia to the European Union is, of course, no accident. This is, of course, an ideological agenda linked to the pressure of Russia's geopolitical but also Nord Stream 2 tube opening towards the whole of Europe. That is what we must bear in mind. But the current price crisis means that we need to understand that if we do not make national decisions that mitigate the consequences of the price shock in the whole society and ensure minimum competitiveness... The Minister of Economic Affairs was able to fight that he dared to quote an Estonian Cell letter, dared to say that Estonian Cell would stop production. But that's the reality. It is not by denying the Minister for Economic Affairs to speak about it to Parliament that it will be null and void. Estonian Cell is, indeed, a company with a very specific energy needs, but it is not a unique exception. [We also have] other companies whose consumer space is on Estonian territory. When I started my speech, I quoted the message of food producers. What was the message? It was delicately worded, but practically meant that we are conducting a large and rigid increase in food prices on Estonian territory. We can't say it's something criminal. They do so because their central input prices have increased so sharply. The question is, are we gonna watch, like we used to live by the slogan "the rope of the manor, let it slide" in the Russian time? But now it is our own country, our own country, that we govern, that we rule, and that we make decisions ourselves. Now let's take the attitude of "but there's nothing we can do"? You see, 25 years ago, a decision was taken, even in the case of the stock market, ten years ago or five years ago. Well, so? Let's change those decisions. That's how you run your country. No one knew this crisis six months ago. There could be another crisis in two years. But the state's ability to be manageable in a crisis situation means that it is able to make decisions in real time that have real impact and are able to either reverse or mitigate the consequences of the crisis. In the current situation, the manor rope is dragging, and we cannot accept this in Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U26	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U27	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, The subject is very serious, but when I look at you, I have a feeling that, especially if there are more cameras to come to the hall, you will soon take off your shoe and start declaring a loss to capitalism and the market economy, because your proposals, very populist proposals, include it in part. But I would essentially come to the subject. I very much agree that the suspension of the payment of renewable energy charges, the temporary abolition of network charges for households, as well as the reduction of VAT, are all possible measures to curb the general price pressure. But if we come to what is socially fair and where there are really the most painful places, it is what the government is talking about, but unfortunately they cannot agree and it is administratively complicated and bureaucratic. What would you offer, which would be easy to really help those who are in trouble? Do you have any of these solutions, or are you guys gonna stay in the air here?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U28	Thank you to the benevolent questioner. I want to say one thing. I think this is the wrong line of thought, which we say delicately part of the government may be. I think that not part of Estonian society is in trouble now, but the whole of Estonia is in trouble. We say they're rich, we can identify them, and let them pay that high stock market price and enjoy it, pay for that price shock. But then we have some of the poorest people, and they make us kneel down to make statements, and this is like a normal model of society to get out of the crisis. I categorically disagree. The price crisis affects all the cost of living. I didn't exactly start by turning the food producers around in vain. The cookies, bread and juices that are produced in Estonia are consumed and paid for by the rich and the poor. Our bank accounts have money. Whoever has money in a bank account is happy, isn't it, [if everything] doesn't spend the electricity bill, there are some savings. But these savings are currently 8.8% lower than they were a year ago. It's a reality. We pay pensions, we pay salaries, but the purchasing power of this money is smaller. We need to understand that we are working in a macro system. It is one thing to think that there is an apartment in a panelhouse or that there is a private house in some rural area in Kohila and a rich person, buržui is the owner of it or [in the run] a low-income person. But another thing is to think that inflation, at national level, is currently taking place that has not existed in 15 years. The same level was the case before the financial crisis in Europe, after Estonia joined the European Union, when there was a huge price convergence, as we remember. Then there was this level of inflation, and now we have returned to it. Let's not say it's free market logic. It is a distorted market, it is a distortion of the market and, if there are distortions to the market, it must be clarified. You said that the proposal to create a possibility for small consumers to buy electricity over the counter is populist. On the contrary, it is not populist, it is a common sense solution, because the starting point must be that electricity must be a universal service. We're dealing with an electrical society. [Electricity is needed] for self-realization, economic development. Everywhere people sit and watch computers, Viktor Vassilyev examines letters. In fact, people need electricity so that our civilization can function. We are taking this environment to a loss of price alongside all the other crises we have. As if we had little trouble: the security, health, economic crisis, and now the energy crisis in a situation where we have solutions in the toolbox, the sources of cover are there, and the rules exist and they can be established. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] We're just struggling because we're stuck... so what? I'm sorry, I don't understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U29	Now, here's the thing. The agreed half-hour's over. The Chair is now welcome in Taavi Aas, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U30	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Today is the second day, but we are discussing this important issue in the Riigikogu. I also considered it important to have a report here yesterday. In this presentation, I described the situation largely and talked about possible solutions. I would like to reiterate that, in my view, we need to act in three directions: in the short term, it is first help for our people, our businesses, perhaps a slightly longer perspective, to give certainty that such situations will not occur in the future, and we certainly need a longer plan. If we are talking about this urgent aid with a short [particular] perspective, it is certainly tax policy [aid] above all, but also subsidies. We've already talked about grants here. It has been discussed that indeed, this circle of beneficiaries can become very large, but nevertheless I think that subsidies are necessary. We have to agree on this level. But there are certainly people for whom subsidies are very important. And then there are measures that concern all consumers: network charges, excise duties and VAT. Those are the levers that we can quickly use when we decide together. Now the medium term [perspective], or fortress. I think that certainty actually consists of two parts: one is price stability; the other is security of supply. Neither side should be underestimated. Therefore, I think it would certainly not be right for consumers to leave the stock market completely, while [should] work to ensure that consumers have confidence that such shocks will not hit them in the future. I'm sure that makes sense. Legal aspects need to be considered here; here we need to consider the opportunities that come from European Union legislation, and then we need to make decisions. And definitely a long perspective. Yesterday I spoke about the steps we have taken in Estonia so that in future we would have more green energy production. But I think we all understand that in a situation where it's 20 degrees cold and still in winter, probably green energy doesn't help us very much. Perhaps you need controlled energy. Today we have Narva power plants. How and how do we use atomic energy in the future? It is being dealt with, but it is certainly not an urgent solution. Hydrogen technology has been proposed as solutions. Yes, but let me remind you that hydrogen production is a very energy-intensive process, and it requires that we have a lot of cheap energy at some point in time. It can probably only come from wind energy. When wind power is high and consumption is low, it is possible to produce hydrogen or to think about how else to store it. But the very high production of wind energy is still likely when we have sea parks. Yes, wind power can also be produced on land, but is it enough to produce large amounts of hydrogen for energy security? Possibly not, because once again hydrogen production is a very energy-intensive process. Solar panels. Again, it is not possible to produce solar energy very much even in sunny weather during the winter months, November, December, January, February. We have to consider that the angle of the sun [in winter] is a little different than in summer, and this assumes that we have variable-angle solar panels parks, but as a rule it is not the case in households. So I think that, first of all, quick solutions, then the medium-term solution, in this case, must certainly take into account the fact that security of energy supply is guaranteed, but also price stability for certain groups of consumers and a long plan ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U31	All right. Now we can go to the questions. Martin Helme is the first, but he doesn't seem to be in the hall, so the question goes to Kalle Grünthal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U32	Speaking up already?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U33	Yeah, that's the story.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U34	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, At our meeting before the meeting, you argued that the price of the manufacturer who made the highest price offer to the consumer on the power exchange would apply in this hour. Does this mean, then, that only this manufacturer provides energy in this hour? In my opinion, no. They offer other producers. That's the question. At what price do these other producers sell this hour's energy, at the price they offer or at a higher price? And I would also like to ask here immediately for an explanation of where and who will have the rest of the money and who will have it. After all, consumers always pay a higher price.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U35	Thank you. At this hour, all energy sellers or every hour, all energy sellers sell at one price. There's a higher price principle that everyone gets that higher price.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U36	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U37	Thank you. And I'm sorry I wasn't in the hall in time, I thought the report would be longer. Of course, I don't envy you, Tavi, in the job you're in right now. But I have to say that the energy crisis was imminent and our party warned about this already several times in September and October. And I'm amazed today's government didn't do anything. And I listened to yesterday's speech here, to the political statement, and also to today's speech, and I do not see any real plans to do anything about the current situation. It is rather such a political communication activity. We know what needs to be done: we need to leave the stock exchange system or stop it in this form and we need to leave the CO2 system or stop it in this form. It needs a political decision. When is the government going to make these decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U38	Thank you. As I said, we need security of energy in two respects: one is price and the other is security of supply. I do not think it makes sense to leave the stock exchange system completely in terms of security of supply, but consumers definitely need an alternative in terms of price certainty. Leaving the CO2 system, I think, is not possible if we remain in the European Union. However, there is a need for reform of this system. That is also what I have signalled, and I am pleased that other countries have joined, which in the same way believe that this system needs reform. I believe that the more countries that say that something needs to be changed in this system, the more likely it is that it will be done in the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U39	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U40	Thank you. Dear Minister, In fact, I would like to continue on the subject of trade in emissions. We are discussing package 55 and it is very difficult to do so seriously, because there is a great deal of slogan. In fact, the President of the Republic has said too much slogan and too little content. However, it is so closely linked to the emissions trading system, and it is now actually intended to be extended to sectors other than energy. But with energy, we're bound together. I'm asking what this reform is supposed to be. The European Commission has discussed that the floor is EUR 25 per tonne, while it has been said that in a carbon neutral scenario, the price per tonne would already be EUR 350 per tonne. Today we are in a situation where the price is over 80. All we see is the tide. How do you see this reform solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U41	Thank you. There are two options. Whether a specific price level for CO2 is agreed. I recall that CO2 emissions in Estonia decreased by 72% under conditions where the price of CO2 was EUR 25 per tonne. There is no reason that the price of CO2 should be EUR 80, EUR 100, EUR 250 or EUR 300 per tonne. It also worked at a price of EUR 25 per tonne. Or, as is the case today in CO2 rules, in trade rules, that if the price is above the average of previous periods, additional quantities of CO2 quotas will be released to the market in order to bring this price down. Unfortunately, time has shown that this system, what has been written in it today, just doesn't work. These new certificates or quantities of CO2 sales will not reach the market and the price will continue to be high and will continue to grow. Now, how high is this price going to go? In the short term, it can certainly grow pretty high. But at the same time, I would point out that on oil shale day in Ida-Virumaa, the professor who represented Tallinn University of Technology introduced ways to capture CO2. And its price calculation was based on the fact that, in principle, at a price of EUR 76+ per tonne, it makes sense to engage in the capture of CO2. Maybe a little too scientific approach, maybe more technologies want to catch up and so on, but basically we've probably reached the price limit where it makes sense to start thinking about catching CO2. And that, in turn, means that this price cannot grow indefinitely. And that, in turn, means that at some point we will arrive at this high CO2 price situation, where we will not close the fossil production capacities, they will remain operational, but CO2 will be caught. Yeah, there's a problem today about what to do with it. It can be stored, but how to start using it usefully, this side is still missing today. But the high price dictates that a solution will also be found for how to use it. So definitely the price of CO2 cannot be infinitely growing and infinitely high. It makes sense for companies to engage in this capture.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U42	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U43	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, With this last speech, of course, we could say that we should probably turn to Elon Muski to develop CO2-fired cars. But seriously now. Seriously, Minister, I would very much like you to dispel certain fears. I have received such signals from several local authorities that there is no real willingness on the part of the local government or, at least, that it is incomplete in terms of how to say the launch of the written system. As we know, half the people are being sent to the local authorities to fill out applications so that electricity costs can be reimbursed. And now the question is: has the state audited, checked and is aware of how capable our local authorities are today to accept this mass of statements? Are people technically ready for this? Are they trained? Is there an audit on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U44	Thank you. Well, it's more of a question to the Ministry of Finance, but as far as I know, cooperation has been done with the local government association, cooperation has also been done with local governments and guidance has been developed on how to do this. The reason why it takes time is because a universal IT solution must be made so that this process is as simple as possible. So I'm sure there's been cooperation. There are certainly municipalities that are more prepared, and there are certainly municipalities that are less prepared. I agree that the fewer people who get into so much trouble that they have to turn to receive support, the better. And this requires that we have also taken other measures so that people who actually go for support, who are in so much trouble, are as few as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U45	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U46	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, Jürgen Ligi, vice-president of your coalition partner, said here yesterday on your statement. I quote: "What have I heard from the Minister for Economic Affairs? Nothing. VAT must be reduced. Even how it affects, I haven't heard of it. [---] The minister should show that he knows the situation. [---] We didn't hear about it, and it's very sad." Do you think he doesn't want to understand the situation, or is it really that what has been done is actually enough? If we also consider that this is the vice-chairman of the Prime Minister's party, then he has a considerable influence, or could have a considerable influence on his word at least. What would you tell him to understand, or is the situation really good?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U47	Thank you. Negotiations between the two sections of government on what, what measures and how much to implement are going on. Our delegation believes that there should be more of these measures. But once again, negotiations are under way, and what some Members say about one or another minister, I think it is a complete freedom in Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U48	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U49	Good chairman of the sitting! Minister, thank you very much. Just like private individuals, our business is hit by high energy prices, especially smaller businesses, many of whom have not fixed their electricity packages and who are already in a vacuum due to the crisis in COVID. In this case, companies are forced to take money from the consumer to cover the increase in electricity prices, resulting in a decent increase in prices. It is a dead circle that the state compensates for the rise in electricity prices for people with lower incomes, but the prices of other goods and services are so high that people's purchasing power is actually decreasing. So, to sum up, how does the state plan to help our businesses so that the rise in energy prices does not hit consumers' wallets?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U50	Thank you. Once again, as I said at the beginning, there can be three stages. One is rapid or possible aid measures, including aid measures for businesses, which is then a reduction in network charges, which is a reduction in VAT. Definitely measures that...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U51	Mr Ligi and Mr Reinsalu, I made a comment to you yesterday. I understand you two are exciting, but I'd like to try and have this debate somewhere else, if you two have something to talk to each other. We have a minister in the remote, trying to explain to you about energy prices. Jurgen! Please, Mr. As!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U52	Thank you. So, yes, first of all, short-term measures, which are possible tax measures that would help businesses. Would the measures now be applied to the security of the stock exchange price or to the ceiling of the stock exchange price also apply to companies? I think, rather not, because these compensations will be great. I think that here, in particular, we can talk about ordinary consumers, helping them. But if the situation continues, I think that the measures will be the same as those applied when the COVID crisis was in place and the companies were forced to limit their activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U53	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U54	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. Is there 100,000 electricity shortages or there are a little more or less of them, but our conversation with the Commission last night will continue: is there really no other way to make it easier, just like halving network charges? Then people shouldn't shake hands to give us 10 or 500 euros a month. Is this inevitable for the current government?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U55	Thank you. That is why we have also proposed other measures that would be implemented automatically, without people having to do something about it. The aim is that the number of those who really come to apply for support is as low as possible. On the one hand, it is a question of dignity for people and, on the other hand, it is, of course, also a matter of administrative burden for refund payers. I think it is very important to act in two directions. There is certainly a need to act in two directions: on the one hand, general measures, but on the other hand, possible measures for those who really are in so much trouble that they need this support. You can't forget that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U56	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In a popular ad, the country exhorts Alexei Turovsky to pick up the stock if there is anger. However, it is possible that the state has not assessed the state of energy supply. Companies are out of business, alternative production options have not been developed, winter follows autumn, we know that, etc., etc. Today we are dealing with the consequences. My question. Wasn't there any specialist in your administration who would have said, "Mr. Minister, we have a problem right now."? And what did you do before? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U58	- Thank you. I'm gonna start at the end of it. What did I do before? In 2019, the initiative of the government at that time was to keep these 1000 megawatts. If we go back in time, it really was a situation where Narva power plants couldn't get on the market. Kõxit was really the subject and they said we were going to do it now because these plants can't get to the market anymore, they can't sell their electricity at that price, so let's shut them down. And Eesti Energia was in a situation where she also had to decide what she was doing. On the one hand, there is no access to the market, on the other hand, it was understood that it was a decision with very large and severe consequences, because if they are closed once and dismantle them, then they will not be put in motion again. The government at the time decided to keep this 1000 megawatts in reserve. We have them in reserve today. True, everything doesn't always work, but at least we have that power. It's done. Now, as far as alternative capacities are concerned, we do not have many good solutions for the alternative capacity to be managed. We are dealing with nuclear energy, a government committee has been set up for this. Now, if we keep thinking about what this other alternative controlled power might be, there are certainly no such fast solutions. And today, when we look at solutions that are tangible, they are primarily related to fossil fuels, or gas. There is no alternative today and, in fact, there is no alternative today in Europe other than gas when it comes to controlled capacities. This is particularly true in a situation where nuclear plants are also being shut down in Europe, which is actually a very good alternative or a very good manageable capacity. As far as non-controlling or green energy, wind energy, solar energy is concerned, as I said, the previous government and this government have decided to acquire new radars in Estonia, which would open Estonia's land-based wind farms not 100%, but at least 60%. Before these decisions were actually practically made, it was not possible to carry out the development of wind farms on the Estonian mainland. It was like the basis for everything that got started. And we have come to the following problems. Everyone understands that wind power is necessary, but certainly not in my backyard. This is a law of local benefit, which is being developed and which, I hope, will arrive in Parliament at the beginning of next year. [It is necessary] to ensure that those in whose vicinity the windmills are, agree with them and benefit from it. Then maybe they'll be more willing to put up with windmills around them. I think it's very important. Renewable energy procurement of 460 gigawatts has been announced, 650 are coming. It wasn't until recently that 450 were announced. A few months ago, the government also decided that the state itself would become a large buyer of green energy, thus giving the green energy developers a guarantee that they would have to sell their products to whom they would sell at a fixed price. [It's] 100 gigawatts. If there are more local authorities, this number is actually more than twice as many as 100 gigawatts. These are the steps we can take to develop alternatives. However, with regard to manageable [capacity], I think that it is important to make it clear, first of all, what are Estonia's steps to enable us to develop nuclear energy and then also to have a discussion about the possible production of nuclear energy in Estonia in Estonian society.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U59	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U60	Thank you. Yesterday you came up with an interesting idea. Since you have data for an hour, and not only do you have how much people consume, it can be paid for by an hour, and people can consume at a time when the price is high, we pay for it. And the whole view of you is that the solution is, like, that the money starts moving in the direction that the tax-paying state pays off consumption bills. I can say that this is neither a long-term solution nor a short-term solution. As Minister for Energy, you should talk about what are the real solutions in energy. What has happened during the five years that there have been no such solutions? I can take a number of important steps for the last five years, but what, in your opinion, has not been done in this five-year period so that the high price now fell in?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U61	First of all, I'll tell you what's done so that the price isn't higher. It's those in our 1,000 megawatt reserve. This is not a new capacity, but we might not have had this capacity if the 2019 decision had not been taken. It wouldn't have been, and today we'd be much worse off than we are now. That's what's done. What could have been done and what should have been done is that, in fact, not five years, but even more than five years ago, the same decision could have been made on these radars. Because from this decision, it takes five years to get the radar in place, and that's about the same time it takes to develop one land-based wind farm. If these decisions were made in 2015 or 2016, we in 2021 could talk about the existence of radars and, thanks to these new radars, we can also launch land-based wind farms. So 2021 could have been land-based wind farms, new parks in operation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U62	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I don't want to be in your shoes. It's a pretty complicated situation. If I look at what we talked to you about last Wednesday and probably we will talk about it in the future, you have some ideas and you talk about them, but allies, as I understand it, you do not yet have too much in your party or even less in your coalition. Now you have described in your vision the short-term and medium-term possible solutions. I have a question: what do you think, looking at what the government has done? In principle, a decision has been taken, but in reality it has not been put into work and, unfortunately, people do not yet receive these benefits. What do you think about when these solutions could come from the status of the idea to work and start influencing people's lives in a positive context?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U64	Thank you. First of all, I would argue so much that there are still solutions that are in work. Acts and network charges are actually in operation, and it has already been shown on people's accounts that they have been implemented. And as far as I know, this technological solution to the support measure should be ready next week, and I very much hope that it will also be possible to accept these requests from the beginning of the new year.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U65	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U66	Good manager! Dear Minister, I am pleased that during the previous government, an important decision was made and the project to install radars that stood for ten years has been launched. Thank you for that too! You were also one of those who saw that wind farms were our future, and the wind parks that stood there in Ida-Viru County for ten years because of a government official, maybe in a few years. But I have a question. We know that in recent years solar panels were well installed, especially in homes. Some, of course, took advantage of it in the fields. But the electrification today has not been connected to most of them, and the queues are up to three years. What message would it be for homeowners who have solar panels installed and who would like to produce renewable energy and get cheap electricity? When could these connections be made?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U67	Thank you. I very much hope that if there are places where the parks are not connected because of the network, that these things can be resolved as soon as possible and that electricity distribution will do everything in its power grids to make sure that the solar parks are connected. But once again: I have shared my experience with solar panels from the same remote control and I dare to confirm from my experience that in summer it works very well, in winter, in these four critical months, when Estonia is coldest, unfortunately it is not possible to rely on them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U68	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U69	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has already led the Centre Party in two governments, and in the course of these two governments nothing has actually been added to the production of electricity power in Estonia but some solar parks. Right now, what you're telling us about this remote control is all long-term solutions, solutions that take years to achieve. But what do you say to those people who are struggling to cope, other than that you allow them to delay electricity bills? And how long should this deferral last, and under what conditions should this deferral take place? Are we actually going to run for years? Electricity prices, as you yourself have admitted, remain high. How do we get out of this situation? People's bills come from month to month, not in 10 years or 20 years.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U70	Thank you. First of all, the claim that some solar parks have only emerged. In fact, there are quite a lot of solar parks in Estonia and one can also ask whether all the parks that have come to the fields are the most sensible way of using the land. [Is it right] to build a solar park after the field? Maybe this isn't the most appropriate thing. And there's been a lot of sun parks. Reimbursement. As I said, this can be a fast and short-term measure. This is not a normal situation where the state has to compensate people for energy. We need to find alternative solutions so that there is no situation where people need to start making up for something. I also said that we need to provide people with security, but security must consist of two aspects: price stability and security of supply. You can't forget either of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U71	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U72	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I would also like the assurance that I know that my children can live in a country where their well-being is guaranteed that they can live on a planet where their well-being is even possible. Life makes its own corrections, for a long time we've been hiding our heads in the sand, and all the time we've been saying that there are no quick solutions, no quick solutions. But long-term solutions have not simply been put into work because we have hidden our heads in the sand. Now, let's get the courage together and go on. Have you been familiar with the Estonian Energia Road Map made by the private sector under the leadership of a green tiger? And when will we be able to see a new Estonian plan in the Riigikogu, what will our energy portfolio look like until 2050: how much of it is imported, how much is domestic production and how much do these energy carriers really have?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U73	Thank you. I think here we can now discuss more about what is a sustainable energy carrier. Is it green energy or is it a sustainable energy carrier that is controlled energy? It depends on which side to look at. But when we talk about 2050 or from a very long-term perspective, I think one of the most important things that will have to be discussed in Estonia in the coming years is nuclear energy. This is actually an alternative to both sides, both managed energy and sustainable green energy.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U74	Good minister, the agreed half hour is over. Thank you very much. Now we have the opportunity to invite the Chair of the Riigikogu to the Chair of the Energy Council of the Estonian Academy of Sciences, Mr Arvi Hamburg. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U75	Dear Chairman, Honourable Riigikogu! We are very pleased that today the Riigikogu is discussing energy prices. It's a little bit out of the question that we're dealing with the consequences and discussing the consequences afterwards. All the decisions that need to be made in energy are more than ten years of leisure. So there is no point in talking about what we did four or five years ago, the question is what we did 14 or 15 years ago. Maybe I'll talk a little bit wider to get a picture of what our goal is, what the path to the goal is. Whenever we set a goal for ourselves at any level, the first thing is to set a path toward the goal. What's our status today? We should also monitor ourselves in energy from the area where our energy balance is at all. When it comes to electricity, what is the structure of electricity production? Further feedback: what are the effects of our actions, what are the possible conditions, the potential risks, the potential risks and what we should do to mitigate them if we achieve our goal. And now a picture of where we are all over the world. What we are talking about is that the European Union's climate and energy policy objective of a carbon-free economy means that it is [not] in Europe, not in the European Union, but in the world. [[Show slides.]] A few years ago, in this picture, 81% of our energy economy was based on fossil fuels. Whether it can be brought to zero [previously] or, as China says, by [year] 2060, it is now up to us to decide on all those who adopt directives and decisions. More specifically, in the structure of electricity production, fossil fuels account for 63%. And the electricity consumption is definitely rising, I predict, repeating, because if all industry, all transport, is going to switch to electricity, then surely such an increase is essential. And if you look at even close neighbours, such as Sweden, Sweden plans to increase its energy consumption by 60% by 2045. While up until now the annual increases were 4.6%, they increase over and over again. What's our status? Our condition is in this picture. We became 2019 an importing country from the exporting country and are in almost half of the energy deficit. And I'm quite surprised when we say now that all of this came very unexpectedly and we weren't ready. It somehow resembles a little bit of the time of the previous formation: four seasons are our fault. Since we're going to have a minus degree in December, there's no wonder. That in Norway hydropower resources were smaller, yes, indeed, but such a low point has been before and it has been about 15%. It can't affect [so much] now. Or indeed, our entire electricity system in the Baltic Sea is so fragile that a 10% shortfall in power due to accidents or planned repairs is already causing an anomaly in the electricity system. Life has been the principle of dual reserves in the electricity system: 10% of each electricity system must have a reserve, plus 10% to eliminate potential accidents. So a 10- or 5% deficit shouldn't play any role here. Our power generation has been drawn up on this schedule. The sun and wind are the lower lines and up are our total production and consumption. The consumption line is top, so we've had more consumption this year than production. And these numbers show that much talked about renewable energy is certainly necessary. It will certainly be further developed by Estonia and will be developed by all neighbouring regions with wind according to the wind map. But we also have to take into account that the wind power factor in Estonia has been taken as a result of the last two years It's accounted for by our actual production and our installed capacities. In the Helsinki region of Finland, even worse usage factors are officially applied to the sun. Now what? I guess we have the same roads. This picture is quite a well-known picture, but all the possibilities that have been drawn up here, starting with the efficiency of using the full energy chain and ending with burning fossil fuels, carbon capture, storage or further production, we have. The share of renewable energy in [measures] is 35%, of course the largest share is energy efficiency. But for renewable energy, here is a picture that shows how big renewable energy production is not only in Estonia, but in the whole Nord Pool region. This is where we're going to have two missions. The first task is that energy must be produced between all these zigzags, and the second is that the change in wind speed is very great in Estonian conditions. Last year there were days when wind speed shifts led to a decrease in or an increase in the use capacity of windmills by 22 megawatts per hour. This means that we need to have fast-starting, fast-adjustable capacities to keep up with this wind speed. And even more dangerous [the situation] is in terms of the capacity balance. If we're talking about production, if we divide the output to 8760 hours [year], we'll somehow manage, but the power balance shows that we're going to fall to about 60% minus in 2031, that's eight or nine years from now. And the peak is always the wider region, it is the Baltic Sea or the European region. The question is, where will we be able to cover this deficit? We should be working today on how we can get a top-up dark line on how we can meet our demand for consumption in the case of [filling], which is drawn here by the drop of the controlled capacities. What are the potential sources of production with which we cover our daily consumption and maintain or develop the Estonian economy? Now let's look at the region's energy balance in response to the argument that this electricity is coming from somewhere and we'll buy it. I am not going into political discussions here about whether the interests of the nation state are greater than the solidarity of the members of the European Union, but let us just look at the figures. Deficite is in all our neighbouring countries. Today there are two other countries with a positive balance sheet. One is Norway, which is 100% dependent on hydropower, that is, rain, and wind. And the second is Sweden, which also has enough hydropower and unclosed nuclear capacity today. When we talk about the Baltic States, our deficit today is almost 60% [of the need], so we must certainly think about how to cover it. Now, the next problem is how we ensure this balance sheet. Here's two options. One way is that we have regulators. Unfortunately, the regulators are working on natural gas, and unfortunately we do not have it. This means why does Europe need Nord Stream 2, which is in dispute? Germany has no alternative but to ensure its energy needs with natural gas plants. Another option is energy storage, mainly hydro-accumulation, which accounts for around 97% of the world's storage technologies. This [station] is planned in Paldiski. I'm an optimist, and I think it's gonna be ready, too, not this winter or the next winter, but it's gonna be done. But we have to take into account that its cycle guarantees a maximum of 12 hours, but normally an 8-hour adjustment under peak conditions. But we still have a little longer periods than eight hours of quiet weather. But it is certainly one measure and one necessary project. Eesti Energia is also expected to build a hydro-accumulation plant on the basis of a mine. It's definitely a way out. Another way to store more electricity is with hydrogen. But we have to realize that then we have to have at least three times the power output. For the simple reason that producing one unit of energy requires much more hydrogen energy. There are 50 kilowatt-hours on this diagram or on the slide. We have to have that much power when we talk about energy: we need 50 kilowatt-hours of energy to get 32 or 33 kilowatt-hours of hydrogen energy. That's one problem. Another problem is that hydrogen has to be stored somewhere. Hydrogen's volume and energy density are 3.5 times worse than natural gas. Natural gas cannot be stored anywhere in tanks, we keep it in porous sandstone in Latvia. Today we do not have such a biological possibility, let alone how to transport it and burn it again. And, of course, the last one is the one in the order of the last one, [in content] the most important one, that we have to manage our own consumption. There are a lot of technical ways of managing it today. Unfortunately, they do not have such an opportunity in Estonia when we are talking about domestic and small consumers. This would require that we have local energy communities or energy cooperatives and aggregation at the level of this community. This means that we can also, in certain hours, if electricity is too expensive for the consumer, give up this electricity and receive appropriate compensation for it. Now, what went through today is that we are talking about energy like in a dimension of one and a half. We are talking about energy security and then the environmental impact. But the most important thing, in my opinion, is affordability, or accessibility. Energy has three axes: the first is security, the second is affordability, or accessibility, and the third is environmental impact. All of them must be balanced. There is no point in talking about security of supply [the plan] that [we produce ourselves] or we buy from somewhere. If this is unacceptable for the consumer, it is not possible. Now for that Nord Pool. It has already been said here how Nord Pool's price will evolve according to its latest offer. Is that the best way? I seriously doubt that. I don't doubt the market economy, but I doubt the design of this electricity market. And the reason is also that the electricity market is not only governed by market rules, but there are a lot of policy decisions that influence the electricity market, whether it is the price of the CO2 quota or something else. And we can see that the entire [Nordic and Baltic] electricity market is 400 terawatt-hours. If we look at Estonia's consumption, Estonia consumes about 8 sharp hours, so we are a relatively small player in this large Nord Pool electricity market. And, as was said at the beginning of December, in the Baltic States, the capacity [out of line] was at 1300 megawatts, and this was certainly a very large source of price increases. With such quantities, no 2% is the reason for any increase in prices. This clearly shows that we have a real shortage of electricity throughout the Nordic-Baltic region and also in Central Europe. From the prices of electricity, we are now going to this price. There is also a lot of talk about gas as an engine for rising electricity prices. I'm saying it's half-sister. It is not possible for gas to produce more than EUR 200 megawatt-hour when we talk about reasonable prices and reasonable costs, but our price is slightly different. And as a rule, the gas only fills the need during the loads. So what can these price components be? The price of electricity consists of three components apart from [the electricity itself]: network service, renewable energy fee and VAT. Some measures have been taken by the government. And now what? This is a political decision: it is a tax reduction, it is a [reduction] of renewable energy charges, the removal of domestic and small consumers from the stock market or the imposition of a kind of ceiling on the stock market price. All this can be done as a result of political agreement, all the measures that are written here can be done. This requires political agreement both in the coalition and in the opposition, but I, as the consumer, think that the time has already passed for the simple reason that some entrepreneurs in Estonia are not able to cope with this energy cost. And how, then, can we plan our economy, how can we plan the livelihood of our home consumers? And last. For example, the Netherlands has taken one such decision: they have decided that the consumer does not have to pay more than 70 euro cents per kilowatt hour for electricity. We're talking about a much higher price here, like 10 cents a kilowatt-hour. What I want to say is that it is possible to take measures in European countries, and much talked about in the Nord Pool market, so-called 'protected consumers', that the introduction of universal service is quite acceptable under European Union law. The question now is whether we want it or not. And if you look at the cost of Narva stations today, for example, here too, it was said that it is up to EUR 50, I think there is a cost price in some EUR 40 tour. If we add some profits to it, it may be somewhere between EUR 50 and EUR 55 megawatt-hour, with which Narva Station can sell electricity to protected consumers. If we add a CO2 tax, put a €90 or a €90 tax, we will receive a limit of €140 to €150 per megawatt-hour for consumers protected at Narva stations. Today, as we sit here, electricity costs 300 euros per megawatt hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U76	Thank you for this presentation. The questions will begin with Kalle Grünthal. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U77	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! At the end of this year, the Estonian people received a very bad Christmas gift from our current government. It became clear that, at the beginning of this year, Elering sold its shares in the power exchange Nord Pool to a Norwegian network operator. In view of the fact that you are the chairman of the Energy Council of the Estonian Academy of Sciences, I would like to know whether the signature of a member of government, a minister, is necessary for such a transaction to be allowed. It's not normal, it's a strategic decision. Basically, I would like to know if there must be a [respect] signature of a member of the government. Am I getting this right?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U78	Thank you. That participation was very small, I think 0.2%. The honest answer is, I don't know if a government member's signature is needed. Elering has a general meeting in the form of a minister. I even think that selling or buying such a small participation is not even the competence of the general meeting. I guess it was Elering's own decision after all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U79	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U80	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Arvi Hamburg! I thank you very much for this presentation, which gave a more general background and understanding of what is actually happening. The thing I heard most of your report was that you said that there was a real electricity shortage in northern and central Europe. In this regard, I am asking that we are looking for rapid solutions to mitigate the rise in electricity prices, but should we also think in the long term that it might still be necessary to bring the nuclear power plants back into the game again? Paint a more positive picture of the future with no electricity shortage.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U81	Thank you. In crisis situations, solutions come faster and perhaps more correct. There is certainly a need for renewable energy, but there is also a need for more regulated capacities in Europe. And in order to plan it in general, I mean within the European Union, we should certainly have one such plan for the deployment of electrical power over the next 20 to 30 years. I'm not saying there's no plan, but I've never seen a plan like this, and I've never heard of such a plan. [Need] is the goal of erecting, we cannot live in energy day after day and draw up directives and something to close or open. But I think that the situation in Estonia and in the Baltics as a whole is certainly such that we need to agree [between] and also agree with the Finns on how we can still have these capacities. We're predicting our consumption. We have a consumption forecast somewhere in advance for 10 years, and according to this forecast of consumption, we must also foresee where this energy will come from, where the potential for energy production will come from. And energy production opportunities must be, as we call it, an energy mix: as many different forms of energy as possible, including nuclear energy, certainly. It is still not possible to achieve carbon neutrality in the European Union, let alone the whole world, without the use of nuclear energy.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U82	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U83	Thank you. Thank you, waitress, for this meaningful presentation. You pointed out from the very beginning that you need to think in the long term, and indeed, the previous question concerned atomic energy, and probably 20 years seems to be too short a time to reach it in this perspective as well. But my question comes from another area. Do you think that by 2030, fossil fuels, or oil shale, will be finished with energy production? Just a moment ago, the Minister said that they were actually finding new technological solutions to capture CO2 and store it somewhere. At the same time, much of this is not heard and is not stated in the development plans. And if we look at our renewable energy ambition for 2030, it's only at 40%, but we're going to cut the controlled capacities from 2025, if we're going to untie ourselves from Russia as well. What's in front of us for the next ten years?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U84	Thank you. Decisions have been made that the production of electricity from oil shale must be stopped by 2035, and Eesti Energia has even declared that this will happen earlier. I think and hope that doesn't happen, but to keep him from producing oil shale electricity, an investor would need security. If we have such a government decision that we will stop producing oil shale electricity, why are there many appliances today that are crashing or are out of use because of repairs? It's just that these devices aren't being maintained. After all, every entrepreneur knows that if the life span of a device is fixed by a given year, we will operate it as much as it delivers and there will be no running service. With the 1,000 megawatts that have really saved us, too, there will be a great deal of problems in the near future. And the problems just start with that if we don't clean up this [power], we don't keep it in order, so-called cold or warm reserve, that power just doesn't exist. We can make some kind of decision that the company must secure [production], but the other way around we must also give the company the assurance that it has the economic justification to invest in order to have such capacity. Our northern neighbour, Finland, has five power plants that don't work. They're in reserve and start working when the system needs it. So by 2030 or 2031 this is the same picture that we saw that the regulated capacity would be significantly reduced. I think one solution is that we have today a Kiisa emergency station running on gas or liquid fuel. It is an accident station and, according to European rules, it must not be placed on the market. But obviously we need to apply for a change in this regulation and bring it to the market, because it is still possible to produce electricity at peak times and sell it with this station. And, of course, all the renewable energy capacities planned for 2030. The sea wind park should really be completed, and its efficiency is not expected to be as we have today on land, 27% of [potential] working time and volume of production. So it's 34% or 36%, something like that. But we're not going to do anything here alone, we're going to do something with our partners, along with the entire market area. This still requires today's energy managers to sit together, tasks, responsibilities to be distributed and carried out. It bothers me personally when someone comes somewhere and again says ups!, no one saw such an increase in prices, in anticipation of such a situation. How can we say that if there is no more capacity and consumption increases?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U85	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U86	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I have had this feeling all along that we have been eagerly trying to prove that the development of this entire electricity system is positive. Sharlatanism has been very hard, it has also been explained that our renewable energy capabilities cover Estonia's needs. It's very strongly promoted, but it's not really true. I, as an Eastern virumaan, am always concerned that we are actually trying to eliminate oil shale energy by the 35th, the 30th. Now we know that this is not possible, but we have created this bad way of saying, the approach that we will soon have no more engineers able to take this thing back into production and keep it in production. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] But I have a question about how you feel about disconnecting the connections from the Russian electricity system.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U87	Thank you. On the positive side, first of all, because the Treaty of Lisbon provides that the Member States of the European Union must have a common infrastructure, a common market area, that is to say, they must unconnect. Now, the economic and socio-economic situation for our taxpayer is going to be very difficult, not to mention all of what I have just said about a shortage of production capacity. We need to start regulating ourselves. And you're probably imagining that if today we put up a wind farm near Hiiumaa and its production fluctuates the way it was in this picture, a very large system will neutralize the fluctuations. And with this very large system, the Russian-Belarus electric system, we have nine strong lines. Consequently, there is stability between these two systems. Now we're going to go into a slightly lower power system, which means connecting to a line and a half. One-and-a-half is because one is an AC line that actually keeps the frequency, and the other is a DC cable that can also be used under certain conditions to maintain stability. We have to have frequency control, we have to have frequency inertia. So what do we do now? We set the frequency to inertia, we set up the synchronous compensators that perform this task, but they are consumers, they increase consumption. However, we are already saying that production is, like, a little short. This disconnect is happening, he's so much prepared. But it's too late today. Five years ago, we should have drawn up a very clear plan to ensure the stability of the Baltic electricity systems and their cost at the consumer's final price. We are talking now that with 60% of European funding, we can build electricity lines to connect to Central Europe. Yes, it is, but Europe is not helping any country to maintain the stability of its electricity system. So there are quite a lot of economic problems here, technical perhaps a little less, and we consumers must take them into account in the future. But it's a fee to be paid to politics.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U88	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U89	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Thanks, too, for a very meaningful review by me. My question is that if we look at the current [status], if we had made the decisions today, then the next additional resources, the connections could be created in four to five years' time. So for the next four or five years, we still have a pretty dark future. And let us also see that some of our fossil fuel, oil shale [based] production equipment, may begin to fall out of [the line] during that time. So the next four or five years won't be very rosy. From 2030 onwards, we could have some new, manageable and unmanageable additional opportunities. How do we survive this period? There is also a problem that the uncontrolled increase in the price of CO2 is actually beginning to affect. The price of energy in this light will certainly not be lower in the future if we have to use oil shale, [paying] EUR 150 to 200 per megawatt-hour. It's just not possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U90	Thank you. What condition do we have in 2031? One of the quickest and easiest methods and possibilities is what we talked about: that these same emergency stations still work and bring them to the market. One wind farm is expected to be ready by then. But with the combination of the two, however, we do not, how to say, cover our electricity consumption. Now, another [measure] that we have in a broader perspective or in a larger region, along with our neighbours [to be taken into account], is the taxation of CO2 intended to crowd out fossil fuels from the market. Well, when such a political decision has been made, I have no reason to debate it. But we definitely need to revise this CO2 trading system. It is not possible to make today's production [price] so high that it is unattainable to the consumer. But there is no new technology. We definitely need [transition time] here so that we have the technology. It's the same recording we were talking about here, or nuclear energy, anything. Then [we can] talk about the amount of technology that we can gradually switch to new technology. But one of its conditions is definitely some kind of ceiling, some kind of boundary, the price of CO2. It is not expected to be possible to abolish this system, and it would also be very difficult for us to step out of it. The second is the same Nord Pool market design. I don't think it makes any of us quite clear [the principle] that when the most expensive consumer offers a certain price, everyone will get that price. If we read Nord Pool's instructions, then on the basis of each chapter of Nord Pool, it is the case that each bidder must offer a price corresponding to its actual costs. What kind of spin is that? I'm offering $20, someone's offering $200, and I'm getting $200. This system is, in my opinion, a little misguided. Again, it has been said that the other way around is that those who are able to produce cheaper will also offer a more expensive price. Well, let them offer, anyway, they'll get a more expensive price. They still get the top price at the end of the day. So I don't see any danger in there. But it should definitely be differentiated, how to say it. And there are no good solutions here. I imagine that, here in the Baltic conditions and also in the Nord Pool conditions, it is still the case that we, as consumers, must take the lead in managing our consumption. But that's very easy to say. I also said before that there were technical resources. But what does managing consumption mean? This means that don't consume at the peak, peak time is morning and evening. We'll take yesterday's consumption and today's consumption. From 9 p.m. to 7 p.m., there is a uniform 250-300-euro graph. And here, as a consumer, I ask how I drive. Do I cook at night? Maybe this is what we have to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U91	Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, First of all, thank you very much for your presentation, it was very interesting and meaningful. You mentioned three things that we need to take into account when shaping energy policy: energy security, affordable energy and environmental impact. And my question: what can Estonia do to increase production volumes in the future, so that they are larger than our consumption volumes? And if we succeed in any way, will it also affect the price of the consumer? And did I quite understand that the [only] possibility of increasing production capacity is still the construction of a nuclear power plant here in Estonia, or there are other ways of doing so? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U93	Thank you. Certainly one large-scale [producer] is a nuclear power plant, but we cannot, how can we say, see this exit in the near future. We certainly have to deal with this today, including the training of people, staff and the provision of information to society. All of this, however, is delayed. Now, what do we have to do to get more capacity? The first is that local production, although the unit price must be more expensive, must also be connected to the electricity grid. And not just the wind and the sun or, quite rightly, the production of the sun and the wind. There are also cogeneration units that produce both heat and electricity. That's one way. Another option is to extend the life span of existing production capacities. And the third option is how to say, an agreement with the neighbours, how capacity can be allocated even here in the Baltic region, but certainly also in the wider region. Why do we have this price difference, different price areas? In certain territories electricity production is cheaper, the price is cheaper, but it is not possible to bring this cheaper electricity to a more expensive area for the simple reason that there are no transmission lines. If you look at the map of today's system, it's a very cheap price in northern Sweden, in southern Sweden, expensive. Consequently, there are no domestic connections either. Not to mention the Finnish-Swedish connections. So one thing is these connecting lines, the other is still kind of their [solutions]. I suppose the situation today is, in my opinion, that just as the peasant's wisdom is: every master must first see how he can handle it, and then go to the neighbor and say, "Help me or we'll take our hands to help each other."
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U94	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U95	Thank you, Mr Professor, for a clear academic vision in the current crisis. My question actually concerns the idea of a reform of the electricity market, so that small consumers can choose, leave the Nord Pool system and take as a universal service a package for which the CO2 quota would be reimbursed by the State as a public contribution to the energy producer and for which the price horizon is expected to be less than EUR 50 per megawatt-hour. What's your view? In the current situation, would it make sense for us to implement a reform of the electricity market? Secondly, hysterics have already started shouting that it means betraying the principles of the free market, it is outrageous that the land should be destroyed, the people destroyed, but as long as we are on the Nord Pool Stock Exchange. What is your answer to these hysterics and pseudo-market advocates of rhetoric?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U96	Thank you. Well, I think the ambassadors have to answer the crowd. But what's to say now? I don't think it's about breaking up the market or giving up the market. First of all, we should look at what the market is today, which we want to modernise. There's no perfect thing you can't touch. If we see that there are some problems, if we see that there are prerequisites and there are opportunities, then reform is certainly also possible. And I see this in the content proposed in the draft, it is a very modest solution to the [concerns] household consumer. When we read the European Union directive, we see that there is always protection for consumers, it goes through all the time. And the withdrawal of this [group] from the market does not conflict with any directive or any direction. When we are talking about a larger amount, somewhere around 4 to 5 sharp hours, say 35 to 40% of small consumers being taken out of the market, I see no contradiction there either, but it may raise questions about how long and under what conditions, etc. But once again: when we talk about domestic consumers, in the order of 2 sharp hours a year, I see no problem at all. In fact, it is rather a problem for the electricity producer. The electricity producer is going to get less money than he's going to get on the market right now. However, since it is a state-owned company because it is a dividend-paying company, it is expected to be necessary. So I would respond to the market fans that the market wants design and if someone had a very clear economics background, maybe they could come up with a better idea or a better proposal. My mind says that this measure will simply be saved today. I sum up here that as Eesti Energia also has to pay a CO2 fee, it requires about 150 million per year for domestic consumers. If Eesti Energia does not have to add a CO2 fee to domestic or small consumers, it means 290 million of the money they can get. No one will probably have the right to take enough money from consumers to play in such a market. And if you think about it the other way around, the market is facing the future, and in this Chamber there was a question that the market has secured a very cheap price for the past ten years, etc. By reading Nord Pool manuals, we can see that Nord Pool does not forecast production or price. Nord Pool is a functioning facility one day ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U97	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U98	Good manager! Good waitress! Glad to see you here lately in a row [more often]. But that's my question. If you go a little further, these American mountains should not only last until spring for the next ten years when the price of electricity [is] formed. I'm asking you, is that true? And describe what will happen if we unhook Russia in 2025. So, is there gonna be a new one of these roller coasters, such a quick ride?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U99	Thank you for that question. But the answer should be given by Elering, who is responsible for the system's services. And there should be a very clear calculation of how much frequency maintenance, how much system services cost, how much it adds to us a network service or some other price component, which then comes. The final electricity bill is made up of three components in general: electricity, taxes and network service. But is it this unexpected bill again in January 2026, are you here or is it someone else? I would like to hope that, in the past, already in 2022, these calculations and adjustments have been made so that we are ready to buy electricity at such prices, both for domestic consumers and for industry.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U100	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U101	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! First of all, thank you for a very meaningful report. I think that many members of the Riigikogu felt that there were very clear statements and visions. I have one question: how do you feel about Elering and his leadership doing the right thing over the last few years? It is often said that Elering, because we have this kind of thing, is all very well, but now that prices have increased tens of times, shouldn't there be any changes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U102	Thank you. I don't think I'm quite correct from this speaking board to evaluate Elering's activities. But I'd like to say that it's not the kind of consolation that we keep the lights on and the rooms warm, the consumer doesn't pick up when the price is [such]. The same question remains that if Elering looks at one of these three aspects and says that at any price, but security of supply is guaranteed, then the question remains that if the price is like this and I cannot buy electricity, what does this declaration matter? I'll turn off the lights myself, okay? I can't pay. No one can guarantee that, no matter what authority, no matter how hard a leader this institution has. The other thing is that the mechanism actually exists in the Electricity Market Act and there is also responsibility: Elering is responsible for security of supply. If security of supply is threatened, a competition must be announced and sources of energy production must be found. Well, today, according to the logic that we have no threat, no competition has been announced. On the contrary, we have a security of supply standard in place which says that we may have, according to the law, a disruption of energy at certain moments. But when we talk about these particular moments, they can be at the peak of maximum load, and up to 40% may even be a power outage, which is legally permissible. Whether this is a normal situation in 2022, which is now coming, is very questionable. We had this situation when we were working for energy sales in 1996. I don't think it would be very nice if this situation came back.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U103	Dear waitress, the time for questions and answers is over and I can't take any more questions, unfortunately. We can go to the negotiations, but before we open the negotiations, we have to make a decision on the extension of the sitting. In particular, the initiator of the debate has proposed to extend the session until the agenda item is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. This means that if we now say yes to this decision, we will address the OTRK to the end, but the next item will no longer be on the agenda today. First, let's call it. Ladies and gentlemen, the Special Committee on State Budget Control has proposed to extend the time of today's sitting until the agenda item is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U104	The extension was supported by 32 delegates, with no votes against and no abstentions. The proposal was supported. We can now go to the negotiations. On the proposal of the initiator of the debate, it has been done so that the representatives of the political groups who have spoken first and then all the members of the Riigikogu who wish to do so appear. The first to sign up is Aivar Chef. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U105	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, To sum up today, the government is following events to solve the energy crisis. The people of Estonia are at risk of becoming the victim of a huge price shock. The government led by today's Reform Party is best characterised by running along events and is best illustrated by its response to the surge in energy prices. But there is a solution in Fatherland. This is a reform of the electricity market, which gives consumers the freedom and choice to buy electricity directly from electricity producers, without stock exchanges. Let's start from the beginning. Already in April, on behalf of the Isamaa Group, I initiated a legislative amendment in the Riigikogu aimed at preventing a surge in electricity and gas excise duties in spring 2022. The Reform Party actively fought against it. However, in September, the government finally reached the point where [decided] to postpone the increase in excise duties for a year. At the same time, however, it was clear that at the end of 2021, we would expect unprecedentedly high energy prices. The threatening increase in the price of gas, electricity and heat required concrete steps, and that is why the Isamaa Group and I launched a proposal in the second half of September to the Government of the Republic to reduce the increase in the price of electricity. This bill provided for the abolition of the electricity renewable energy charge for consumers and for the payment of renewable energy charges to producers in the form of public budget allocations from the revenues from CO2 emission quotas. The coalition did not support this bill. At a time when the government was just beginning to realise that excise increases had to be postponed, the problem was already serious. Therefore, in October, the Members of the Fatherland proposed to reduce the excise duty on gas, electricity and heat from 20% to 9% for one year. In our view, it was and is unacceptable that, in a situation where the revenue of the state increases by hundreds of millions of euros from CO2 quotas and VAT on energy sources, the government will only build shoulders and not seek solutions to mitigate the effects of price shock. In today's situation, the most absurd thing is that the state is trying to peel ten skins off the taxpayer. Even in the context of the pan-European energy market [must be taken into account], Estonian power plants are owned by the Estonian state. If the power plants of Auvere and Narva are working, this revenue will be earned by Eesti Energia and the people of Estonia, as owners of this company, should benefit financially from it. In addition, VAT paid on energy is also received in the country's cup. If the state earns a great deal of revenue because of high energy prices, then this revenue should be returned to consumers rather than taken out of their pockets. It was only in November that the government decided that 50% of the network service fee would be reimbursed to consumers over a six-month period. In addition, it was agreed that a support measure would be set up to pay electricity, gas and district heating bills to less-insured households. This support measure will cost around EUR 80 million and will reach only a part of households. At the same time, the state earns more than EUR 300 million from the increase in VAT and the sale of CO2 quotas. In doing so, it is important to mention that the necessary IT developments to bring this support action to the people have not reached the present stage. This is despite the fact that people have been knocking on the doors of local governments since October. Not all of this is a criticism of the empty opposition, but every person should wonder why the government is clearly unable to make the necessary decisions in time. I recall the spring of 2020, where we had to make billions of decisions quickly to support Estonian people and businesses to cope with the crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. The National Audit Office has ex-post assessed that the money reached those in need and most importantly: we were able to save thousands of jobs and businesses. I am not saying that the decisions made at the time were easy or that no mistakes have been made. But at the beginning of the corona crisis, it took courage to decide. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U106	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U107	The energy crisis also requires the same courage. It is not coalition parties that suffer as they hesitate and follow events for too long, but the people and companies of Estonia. That is why we need clear leadership and a government that can prevent and provide solutions to possible crises and problems. Today's government doesn't have a short plan, let alone a long plan. If the government's lack of ability to react to the crisis is a legitimate resentment, then at least the same sad situation prevails in the long term. Today, we see that, in a situation where our current electricity demand is 1500 megawatts, we ourselves produce only about 1000-1200 megawatts. So there is already a lack of competitive capacity today. In the event of an energy deficit, however, the manufacturer may charge any price, including EUR 1000 per megawatt-hour. In our Nord Pool region, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Finland are the only regions with very high prices. The situation is significantly better in Norway and Sweden, where prices are more than four times cheaper. The Narva power plants of Eesti Energia have put all production capacities into operation with frost, except the newest, Auvere power plant, which was in the process of repair. Do you really have to bang the sledge in winter? The question arises as to who will pay for the loss of revenue as a result of the stagnation of the Auvere power plant and, on the other hand, the increase in electricity prices for consumers? In four years' time, we should be desynchronous about the electricity grid in Russia, and in the next eight years, several of our leading power generation capacities will fall out in Ida-Virumaa. Where are the new managed capacity emerging, and what is the government's plan? The proposal of the Fatherland Party is clear: the private consumer of Estonia does not have to pay more for electricity than the cost price of electricity produced by Eesti Energia + reasonable profit. By implementing a reform of the electricity market that would allow people and small businesses to buy electricity directly from electricity producers without stock exchanges, the price of electricity for private consumers would be less than EUR 50 per megawatt-hour. Lithuania and France are using the same solution. This price does not take into account the money from the CO2 quota, as the State should compensate the consumer or producer. We know that more than 300 million more revenues from VAT and from the sale of CO2 quotas are generated in the state budget than planned. This additional income is taken from the pockets of our people and businesses. Compensation money can also be taken from the higher profit of Eesti Energia as a dividend due to the sale of expensive electricity. As in the case of reductions in network charges for electricity, network charges for gas should be reduced by at least 50%. The most operational and comprehensive solution would be to reduce the VAT and renewable energy charges for electricity. In fact, this is, in essence, the sharing back of what Eesti Energia earned, because we do not have to raise other taxes, because it is compensated by the dividend income of Eesti Energia and the CO2 fee. Support measures for the installation of renewable energy equipment on the roofs of homes and commercial buildings should also be rapidly restored, i.e. support measures for the installation of solar panels on buildings. Good Centre Party! Did you really want such a coalition, or do you regret the decision made at the beginning of the year? We can't go on a schedule for processing the laws of the Reform Party "it's warm in the summer." The Christmas holiday of the Riigikogu must depend on whether or not solutions are found to the energy crisis. There must be a warm and cosy Christmas in Estonian homes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U108	Thank you. Jaanus Karilaid, please! We'll get an answer to the last question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U109	Ladies and gentlemen, We are talking about high energy prices for the second day in Parliament's plenary session. I would like to thank both the energy expert Arvi Hamburg and the Minister of Economic Affairs, Taavi Aasa. In addition, I would like to thank the Special Committee on State Budget Control and its paternal leader for the necessary theme setting. In front of our eyes, metamorphosis of the Fatherland Party is taking place; it is becoming a patriotic social democratic party. It's really touching. At the same time, I sincerely hope that these last two days will lead to faster decisions, that political parties will not pick up support points, but will aim to seek common solutions so that they do not expect politicians to talk. Action is needed, and we need our people to feel the support of the state in the face of abnormal price increases. After the turn of the year, you have to start paying another utility bill and these can be the greatest of all time. The current crisis has highlighted the weaknesses of our energy policy and the mistakes made in the past. As a representative of the Centre Party Group, I am today calling for solutions, a consensus. We'll find the culprits later. We need to act quickly, because bigger warning signs are already taking off. Yesterday, the pulp producer announced that due to extreme prices, production was expected to stop temporarily. The most difficult situation is that of exporting producers which, in competition with the global market, have to take into account the price pressure exerted by those companies that can use duty-free energy for production. The Centre Party wants people not to worry about coping and people's well-being not to suffer a sharp decline in the expectation of the approaching festivals. We stopped the rise in excise duty, we compensate for 50% of network charges until March, and we are developing a support measure through local authorities. In the context of the surge in energy prices, it is time to take the next steps. Among other things, consideration could be given to reducing gas network charges, setting a compensation limit for the exchange price of electricity and adjusting the distribution of Eesti Energia's profits. Decisions must come faster. Otherwise, people's livelihood will be hit and we will not be able to contain inflation. The economy, with jobs, could be at risk. The Centre Party Group wants a more comprehensive relief package, but giving people a helping hand must be more dignified and avoid amplifying social divides in society. The x-ray image of the current crisis has clearly highlighted the weaknesses of the system. I believe that no one doubts that the energy economy must be in the grip of the country. The state must have greater opportunities to influence the price. It would be irresponsible not to intervene more forcefully today. Looking ahead, the Minister for Economic Affairs has taken steps to accelerate the establishment of wind farms. Neither should discussions on the establishment of a nuclear power plant be afraid of, and the temporal role of oil shale mines in our energy economy must be re-evaluated. Finally, I encourage the Chair of the Special Committee and the Special Committee to look even more into the high-price electricity tents. There could be a similar enthusiasm and a strong sense of justice to find out who is still responsible for the constant failure of the Auvere power plant due to technical failures. Who designed it, who built it, who got it? Still to better channel taxpayers' money towards a better and more sustainable living environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U110	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party Urmas Reitelmann, please! Henn wanted to? Uh-huh. I was told differently. Then please, Henn Põllamaas! No, no, I've been informed that... Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U111	It doesn't matter, Urmas will be able to speak soon. Everyone gets what they want. But three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U112	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U113	Do you remember, in the 1990s, electricity cost 4 cents, 4 kroon cents, which makes it about 0.2 cents per kilowatt. There was no amperage tax, no renewable energy fee, no excise duty, no CO2 quota, no stock exchange fee. And the state promoted the use of electric heating as clean, nature sustainable and cheap. That's what he was. Today's price is not even comparable. It is worth recalling here, by the way, that all the taxes that I have read about have been added and that huge profits have been taken out of Eesti Energia during the times of the Reform Party's governments. Today, we are on the brink of disaster as a result of the green turn and the inexhaustible political decisions. The price of artificially heated electricity and the resulting inflation are enormous. People, families, our entire economy and business are suffering. Have you noticed? In the evenings, the windows of our villages and cities are dark. Even the Christmas lights are many times less than in previous years. Estonia was previously energyally relatively independent and relied on domestic fuel, such as oil shale, wood and peat. However, all these energy carriers have been set up by climate activists under scorn and huge taxes, even though wind and solar energy do not provide us with security of supply and there are no new technologies. A situation where we produce electricity in Narva for 50 euros in megawatt-hours and have to buy it for 1,000 euros in megawatt-hours is not normal. No one has tried to explain why we have to pay the extremely expensive price of the international market for cheap electricity produced in Estonia. Our electricity market and prices are not due to economic or market logic, but to stupid and extreme policies. The price and inflation driven by stupid decisions must be brought down by wise decisions. Although the Prime Minister acknowledges that half of Estonia's people are in trouble at the price of electricity, it is not planned to reduce the price of electricity or to take smart measures to get out of the energy crisis. Instead, the government advises people to seek help from the local government in order to mitigate the increase in electricity prices. The state collects high-price profits, while at the same time shuffling alms to people with money taken from the same people. It means humiliating 660000 people and taking their dignity away from them, but it doesn't solve the situation. Many fixed electricity contracts will soon end and hundreds of thousands of other people in need of social benefits will be added. But what's to wonder? It was only when Kaja Kallas announced that electricity would have to be expensive to make a hero. And be glad, he promised, while the electricity was still cheap, that then he would not reclaim the people from the background. Now we're enjoying the fruits of the green turn. Estonian Cell, the largest electricity consumer in Estonia, has been declared the most environmentally friendly company in Estonia, stopped production. He was cut off by the government and the European Union. But this is just the beginning. In addition to rising prices and inflation, we will see mass redundancies and waves of bankruptcy in all areas. The only thing that our government has done right is to reduce network charges. But that is far from enough. EKRE has already put forward a series of proposals in the autumn to resolve the situation. All of these, unfortunately, have just been rejected by the coalition and by the government, as have the proposals of other opposition parties. An important point here is that electricity prices must be reduced rather than social benefits that undermine people's dignity. And that is our firm position. Electricity is not a luxury product; it is a vital service that is already in the human rights category in modern terms. No kidding. The availability of electricity at normal prices must be ensured. I would like to reiterate here the proposals made by the EKRE to reduce the price of electricity. It is necessary to suspend or leave the CO2 quota trading system and to require its amendment. In 2018, the CO2 quota costed EUR 10, today almost EUR 90 and will soon be estimated at around EUR 300. And there's no price ceiling on it. Since 1995 we have already cut CO2 emissions by 75% more than anyone else in the European Union up to 2020. What else? It is necessary to leave the stock exchange or to suspend participation in the power exchange. Nord Pool is not a market, but a manipulation, where buyers are charged different prices and we fools pay it the most expensive. Nord Pool has a maximum price of EUR 3000 per megawatt-hour. We have already paid EUR 1 000. As we can see, there is still room for improvement. No, thank you! There is a need to stop paying renewable[energy] charges in their current form. This is also supported by our entrepreneurs. In a situation where the prices of windmills have decreased significantly and are profitable, the payment of the subsidy to them is no longer justified. The reduction in VAT will certainly also help. Finally, it is possible to restore the purchase of cheap electricity from Russia to compensate for the deficit. We are also buying it today, but not directly, but at 100 times the price in Finland. It doesn't make any sense. High electricity prices are devastating for our entire business, economy and competitiveness. Our power plants and all energy-intensive production will soon be shut down, which will lead to a socio-economic disaster, but the government will not agree to abandon its green plans and Põxit. If at least one of the government departments is trying to figure out how to lower the price of electricity, then the Reform Party is completely socialized. A failed and perverted left ideology has been adopted, according to which taxes must be high, seven skins must be peeled from the people and businesses, and the impoverished must be made dependent on subsidies and social assistance. It's not normal. The sunrise government that has led us to the sunset must be stopped before they push our entire country and nation into the abyss. We're already on the verge of it. And we have decided to hold a grand demonstration of government failure, irresponsible [for politics] and unwillingness to lower the price of electricity...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U114	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U115	... where we gather people all over Estonia and demand with the people...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U116	Time, Henn!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U117	... electricity price reduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U118	The representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, Lauri Läänemets, now has the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U119	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U120	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U121	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Every crisis, including the energy crisis, is distributing wealth in society. The victims are not only people with lower incomes, but also the average Estonian families. The people for whom everything is becoming more expensive come from an unending crisis of corona and economic crisis. The tiny wage supplements of next year's state budget leave savers, police, teachers, nurses, cultural and social workers poorer at the usual cost of living. And now their hope and confidence in the state are also being abused by the increased prices of electricity. We have areas where there hasn't been a general increase in wages. We have entrepreneurs who have not yet been able to gather themselves from the previous crisis. The good will of the operation of the power exchange is understandable, but as long as there are such extensive transfers of money from the pockets of an ordinary person, an honest entrepreneur to the pocket of energy producers, this system simply does not work for a person. Whatever market rules and logic, they can't make people poorer. The countries have created these rules and it is the responsibility of the countries to change them. The idea of having a state and government is to be a balancer of social processes, a guarantor of justice. What, though, has our government done in this situation? First of all, the seriousness of the problem at Prime Minister level has been denied. Next, [reciprocally] public ideas on the table and the density of being pushed off the table have reminded the work of two-man time rather than the government's thoughtful plan and its implementation. An Estonian person does not need a government that does not make decisions. Spectacular policies hurt our families. The welfare of the families [depreciation] is the consequence of the apocalypse of the current government. Already at the beginning of the autumn, the Social Democrats proposed to reimburse the total amount of renewable energy charges for the CO2 quota of EUR 100 million. At the time, the Reform Party and the Centre Party voted down this idea, but yesterday we heard that the Minister for Enterprise and Infrastructure considered such a change to be very important. The Social Democrats have proposed raising the subsistence threshold and using the already existing system to support people with lower incomes. People's concerns began months ago, but the government's help has not reached anywhere, and the weakly prepared plan now threatens to overload the local social workers. We have proposed a 100% reduction in network charges, a reduction in VAT, EUR 100 per child to pay extraordinary support to families, but nothing. The line's dead, no one's gonna pick up a phone in the government on a distressed call. The government's biggest problem is the inability to seriously consider recommendations during the crisis, whether it is to mitigate shocks caused by electricity prices, to organise vaccinations or to set up a vaccine damage fund, for example. On absolutely every issue, everything must first be ruled out, saying that it gives the wrong signal, and then a few months later the same thing is presented in another wording as a winning job. But in a time of crisis, these few months are very important and long-term, and in the current situation, such a selfish staggering tactic is vulgar and cynical. The rise in energy prices should have been reacted immediately, urgently, decisively. Next spring, the people of Estonia will be poorer than they were this autumn, and this will now be the case for years. In November, annual price growth reached 8.8%. Price increases have become increasingly rapid and broad-based. In November, electricity prices rose by 49% over the year. The setbacks of January, February, March and April can still be prevented, but there has already been an increase in inequality in our society. Transport, food, services are expensive and are about to become expensive, and they are no longer cheaper. The new fixed electricity packages, by the way, are over 100% more expensive than a year ago. For two years now, society and the economy have shown extraordinary stamina, enabling impressive economic figures to be presented. But on today's autopilot, this whole community effort has been written in a chimney for spring. The result of the spectator policy is once again a redistribution of wealth, taking away from those who have few, including those whose families have managed more or less so up to now. The coping of thousands of Estonian families suffers and this is directly the result of the apocalypse of the government. The fee paid by the operators will soon be seen. We are already hearing reports today of companies that are restricting or even temporarily suspending their activities. Fortunately, there are solutions, and social democrats are also giving their help today. Let's raise the tax-free minimum to next year's minimum wage. This would benefit nearly half of the earners of EUR 370 per year. This draft is one item on today's agenda. Although the coalition has proposed to reject it, I suggest you seriously consider it. The economy, the state, is in order to serve a man, not in order for a person to lose weight under the principles of efficiency, balance, market stress and other concepts, the authors of which all of this earn usury. Reach out to work for us!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U122	On behalf of the Reform Party, Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U123	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that in our next Rules of Procedure it is stated that each committee can, however, initiate the OTRK within its own remit. This debate today is clearly under the bar because, to the slightest extent, the Special Committee on State Budget Control has not discussed whether the state budget can be an unlimited donor for citizens, what the state budget is and what better choices are in the state budget. Structural policy. At the moment, the main thing is that we have some kind of citizens here to whom the state does not give money. That people are suffering, but the state does not allocate money. This is exactly the same patho that was in the debate on the state budget. But it is up to us to discuss structural policy, and this committee in particular. Moreover, of course, the chairman of the committee is such an anonymous slander at the address of a political party, simply making a political grudge and, in this case, assigning me positions that I have not put forward here. There was a complete lack of such a thing in today's debate: what was left of the national-segmented sots, where was the green turn? Now all of a sudden, the whole question is that things must be cheap, and it is absolutely missing that we need to fight not to have more consumption, but to have more consumption and more sustainable production. In fact, the Commission was not interested in this matter. That's too bad! When we talk about prices, which is undoubtedly an important issue, we should also talk about inflation in general. We did not get any new data on how much the price of electricity actually affects inflation this year and next year. According to current knowledge, inflation is actually 4% this year and revenue growth is greater than this, which means that there is no total impoverishment. Even if the state could intervene here, there is no such thing as total impoverishment for everyone. There must be structural policy, there must be selective decisions to help and where to invest. But we didn't hear about it, we didn't hear any numbers. There was a complaining, a finger pointing, including by a party that's been holding the energy portfolio for five years. Just one whining and tax-political bullshit. In fact, the budget is the place where major changes are being made for the single currency, and this major change must be both in production and in transfers. We also have public enterprises for this purpose. Where's all this stuff? Where are we talking about our proposals, government proposals, responsible ministers' proposals to increase subsidies for people so that they can help themselves with insulation, small production of [sun] panels, smart consumption in the sense that there is a huge potential for savings in the way consumption is shifted? But no, the whole point is that we have a price here is the main problem, okay? The price is a matter of itself, and it is the state budget that has to pay for it. That's not how one country works! And the state budget control committee should talk about it, not play a fool here and do the theater. These are very serious problems. Very many people have this very serious economic problem, but most people have fear, price fear. But this fear must not be aggravated by stupid talk. They're exaggerated hangs taken from the remote. VAT is not the answer. VAT is almost the only free tax in the state budget [of which we could really offer people solutions]. In the form of grants directly, in the form of investment grants and in cases where there is a joint contribution. However, I would like to know [one thing]. We've had these market failure complaints, haven't we? It has been explained that the Competition Authority has stated that renewable energy charges are no longer justified today. If the expert says so, where is the intervention of the responsible ministers and also of the Riigikogu, why do we pay? More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U124	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U125	Why are we paying renewable energy fees to those who are now bathing in revenue? Maybe the simple answer is, but deal with it. The solution is not that we pay for the state budget. No, these are unfair revenues that are currently being collected. Is it possible to intervene there? I think it's even possible to go to court. If these fees are no longer in line with the logic of the moment and are overpayment, then the Competition Board and the Riigikogu should intervene. And the government of course, the responsible minister should present an analysis. There has been a lot of talk about the carbon market. No, the price of CO2 is a strong economic incentive to invest up to the point of taking CO2 back from the air. And in this sense, as a price incentive, it is actually more helpful to solutions. The price helps, the high price makes you act. But if there are market distortions that have been mentioned, where are the conclusions? What has the Minister responsible done to check whether there are unfair speculations in the CO2 market? We'd like an answer, but we didn't get it today, we didn't get it yesterday. The man went and pointed his finger at the coalition partner, the government, but where are the answers? After all, market distortions are his thing. Where are the answers to closing connections somewhere in Europe? There's been talk about the Nordics. Is that a rumor, or is it true? I think the ministers responsible need to lift it up at European level, because it is an international matter. Where's the Nord Pool control news? Yesterday, for the first time, I heard that one minister, and this was Andres Sutt, whose direct responsibility it is not just said that the supervision of the network or the supervision of this system is looking at this matter. That would also be something to tell people and to tell us here. It would be a long time, but not a long time, to talk about a tax policy that gives us three times more than the poor people who are really in trouble. Value added tax does not [help] in this sense. It's a discharge from the budget, but it doesn't go to the right place. That's the problem. Transfer plans. What has been done for five years? I remember these big fucking connections from my term of office, but from the new days, it's just news that we told you to keep those old stations. That was the right idea two years ago. But it's not a new power. It's not a new connection of any kind. We decided against Auvere's recommendation that we do not really need this production. We did it, though, I don't know, 2010 or 2012, about that time. It was a good decision, but at least what's the plan in the new days? Yeah, it may be a view 15 years ago, but what's going on right now to have something in 15 years? There's no such thing. Everyone fights for the price. This is not the solution that the budget pays for prices. That's not the solution! It can be a relief for the weak, but it cannot be [a solution] for the entire citizenry. All citizens cannot be subsidised to consume more. That is the horror of our debate today. Where is the alternative production? Where are the targeted reliefs? Where are the transfers and where are the interventions in market distortions? In fact, no one who held this debate today bothered to talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U126	Thank you. Urmas Reinsalu, probably the line.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U127	Thank you. What we heard was grotesque and crazy. In fact, here are the reasons for this current crisis, the failure of the government. Jürgen Ligi quite frankly said that the price is helpful. I see the price as a problem, but someone in this room sees the price as help. And the suggestion that the people should do, Mr Hamburg correctly pointed out, that there is always one price corridor in the Nord Pool during the day. Make dinner at night! Make food at night, dear people of Estonia, if you feel the price of electricity is too high! So it's a solution that the government or the Prime Minister's party is proposing. This point, which is now about overcompensation, which is contrary to State aid rules, then renewable energy charges, is, in fact, the subject of the report submitted by the Competition Authority to the government. But the government is like a five in the corner, he can't make a decision. Several months ago, it was handed over. Anyone can watch, the Competition Authority page it's lying there. And who's suffering? The bosses are not suffering, the Estonian people are suffering, Estonian consumers are suffering, entrepreneurs are suffering in the order of 100 million euros. Now the question of what Professor Hamburg quite rightly told us: the reform of the electricity market. If we have electricity customers as a universal service, we can leave the stock market. This victory for domestic consumers is at a minimum of EUR 290 million on 2 sharps horizons. We prefer this money to go down the stock market. This is actually the choice and it is veiled by the story of the free market economy. On the contrary, freedom of choice must be increased. Give me the freedom to leave that stock market!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U128	Jürgen Ligi, it's actually with the line that you can answer for the talk from the speaker. We're not supposed to answer the second line with a reply. The negotiations are when the speech is made... [[Jürgen Ligi says something about the hall.]] No, no. The type of reply is that when a person is touched from the speaker's console either by name or by recognizing himself or by touching his or her position, he or she can respond with a reply on the spot for two minutes. But you can't answer the line with another line anymore. That's my point. So, unfortunately, I can't give you the floor. Let's move on with the negotiations. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U129	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, It got a little awkward at the end, but I'm not going to name the name for who. He doesn't need two minutes. But these subjects I have at least [on the table] every week and repeatedly. I am thinking of the Committee on the Environment and the Special Committee on State Budget Control. And it was just that, now there is a rush to see that Estonia's views are needed, on which [under] we are going to discuss this great heroe. And this is like the basic thing that the Committee on the Environment, Economics, European Affairs is currently dealing with, and so on. And we must come up with Estonia's views miraculously. It's a big picture. We're talking right now, and I'm talking about this moment, but now I'm going to give you this big picture. And we have to go out with it fast. Like, I can't remember what day, but it was this week when the good officials told us why we had to hurry. Because otherwise we will be at the door in Brussels. We have a very good team, diplomats waiting for our signal, our mandate, as Mr Kallas has said. But Siim is an experienced politician and knows he's even afraid of it, that we can't say too easily that these are our positions, because that's how we lock ourselves down. We lock ourselves up, and good negotiators, when they're good, start talking about it. And you know why you have to hurry for a big picture? Because the French Presidency and the French President's elections are taking place. That's why we have to hurry. Maybe Marine Le Pen will be French President. That's what good officials tell us about why we need to put together the main nodes of the big picture. But at the same time, we have no impact analysis. Indeed, it was perhaps yesterday or the day before yesterday, another meeting, when the Chamber of Agriculture and Forestry and the Union of the Forest Industry presented their views: this foolishness cannot be accepted, the points that Brussels has come up with. That all of this has a price, and it's going to cost a lot of money. We have no impact analyses, I repeat: no impact analyses. And we cannot go on this thin ice because there is nothing more at stake than the survival or death of Estonian people and companies first and, on the other hand, the preservation of the right to self-determination or the surrender of sovereignty referred to yesterday by the leaders of the Forest Industry Association. And the leaders of the Chamber of Agriculture were talking about food security. [[After a break, he'll turn to someone in the hall.]] Hey, can you please talk outside or in the bathroom? So it's a wider picture. And we're talking now that the government has actually come up with a new apartheid system. Even so, the division of these masks and accessibility is caused by [limitation] people in two, and now the electric split is also coming in two: the electric poor, I am talking about people, businesses have not yet been able to talk about, and those who are not electric. They come, with their hands hanging, asking, there are 100,000 or less, they come to ask, maybe 10 euros or 500 euros per month, and then four more months. Maybe we could? People are very worried. Nobody's told me who's paying the interest, and so on. It's the current picture, but it's the big picture that's going on for the next ten years. These American mountains continue, not in the spring will end.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U130	Peter, do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U131	Yeah, I'd like three more minutes. In 2025, we will be cutting ourselves apart from Russia - the next American mountains for two or three years. In 2028 or 2029 maybe we can finish the first sea wind park. Couple or three years of American mountains again. Yes, Eesti Energia says that 2035 is finished with oil shale. I hope and we hope it's not over. The prices of CO2 already allow it to be countered. But we'll have 300 windmills up by then. 49 approx. 400 meters in the sea and 250 on the mainland. But where are they now? We have the only one, the Prime Minister is the Wind-Echo, our biggest wind-energy lobbyists, but what we don't have is new windmills. And the tea on the so-called American mountains will last at least ten years. We continue to be in this CO2 trading system. Yeah, they're trying to adjust it a little bit, but far away it is, nobody knows. At the same time, we must present Estonia's views this year and these should be approved by us. They're the ones we're going to negotiate with. What will the green future be like? I repeat: in a situation where there are no competent impact analyses, we are rushing somewhere with slogans, with green-shots. And it's a big picture. But the nearest picture is Christmas, which is approaching, big bills that have to be paid, but for which there is no money for many. And it's a question of dignity to start shaking hands in January. By the way, the municipalities do not have the [necessary] data, as well as the people involved. In yesterday's Elva parish council meeting, it came out. I don't know what is, I don't know where [the money] comes from, where we're going to look at it like a baby bird to Tallinn. But Tallinn is here, and these birds' mothers and fathers here are telling us how it is or where it comes from. So, guys, this is serious. And now if we go on a long Christmas vacation on Thursday, the rest of the people won't go on Christmas vacation. But our government, under the guidance of the Wind-Echo, continues to live unindeed calmly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U132	Time, Peter! Now, does Jürgen Ligi have a request for a reply? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U133	Thank you, Mr President. That was a very fair word. And thank you, Peter, for giving me the opportunity to respond to slander and distortion of thought. Yeah, I said the price's kind of helpful. Price is a strong signal in a market economy to act, to make savings and to produce. In this sense, there are things in this crisis that must not be missed. See, even Urmas Reinsalu starts to brag and wakes up and finds himself a theme to row in front of the camera again. That's what action is if anyone wants it to be. But this price, above all, will make people save and the country look at where to invest. There are good things in these prices. But the worst thing about the price right now is, of course, this volatility, these American mountains, as someone very fittingly just said here on the remote. I pointed out that among the components of the price is currently unnatural things that should be dealt with. Renewable energy charges should indeed be reviewed. These are no longer economically justified at these prices. A stone was thrown into the air, no action followed. CO2 market. It is said that there is speculation here where the responsible people act. They say there are market restrictions, no electricity is allowed through anywhere in Scandinavia. Where's the action? These are all things that cause price volatility. Nord Pool. They say the stock market is imperfect. So where are our signals? We're still part of it indirectly. [[They say something in the hall.]] Yes, we are! This is the part of the share that has been sold. Two thirds of 2% were sold, but basically at ministerial level, it would have been possible to intervene. And then comes investments, investment grants, all of which are state opportunities. So the price has its perks. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] But thank you for the opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U134	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U135	I'd like more time right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U136	Three minutes extra time, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U137	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen! "There is no such thing as a fool who doesn't understand what trouble and misery is," wrote the folk writer Kivisildnik last week. Obviously, it is. The Prime Minister admitted a few days ago that he had no idea how the middle-earned family would survive. Unlike the usual lie before the Riigikogu, Kallas was honest this time, without even pretending to have empathy. Indeed, he is genuinely not interested in the welfare of the average earner, and even less interested in coping with the minimum wage or pensioner's fellow countryman and his human dignity. "Smartness," "inevitability," "arrogance" and "visionlessness" are words that characterize today's coalition more generally. For those who doubt the sun's rule, however, there is a great deal of talk: 'peldikuopolis', 'unscattered','social outcasts', 'anti-hygiene'. What else is there, Reform Party? Race hygiene and Untermensch? The National Socialists have already left today. Estonia has a Prime Minister who has never led anything in his previous life, not given a job to anyone. [He's] a person without the slightest leadership experience who's trying to run the country today. It's an accident in the cube, and it's an accident that people now feel on their own every day. In just a few months, the government managed to turn Estonia into a land of fools, where no one is ever responsible for anything, all the damage will always be borne by the taxpayer. Examples of criminal stupidity and incompetence are added every week, good that not every day. We've got one crisis after another. I'm not going to talk here about the rookie realtor destruction in healthcare, it's a phenomenon on its own. We are talking about the fact that two corrupt parties have turned electricity into luxury goods in Estonia. We produce electricity at 30 euros, we buy in at 500 or even 1000. We're so far away. The government sits idle in this situation. There's no real and functional way out. The Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economic Affairs unscrupulously monitored the rise in electricity prices since spring and did nothing. Trouble was calling out from afar, but the government did not have the authority or the desire to respond adequately. Probably missing both. Why are such people still in their jobs? Can anyone explain that? We're still buying energy at a bizarre and speculative exchange price, the citizen is still paying for unsustainable, unstable renewable energy, and we're still trading ridiculous CO2 quotas. But people's trouble is getting worse. Whoever happened to drive around Mustamäe or Õismägi on the evening during the 1,000-euro electricity price saw how many blind windows there were. People who don't care about Kaja Kallas, who live from pay to pay day, cannot afford extra expenses, they now have to save food and laundry. Taxpayer saves, figuratively speaking, by the side of his stomach. The government sees savings in the ongoing extinction of rural areas, on the account of rescuers, policemen and national defence, and on the closure of county hospitals. Worse lies ahead. Europe is facing, if not war, large-scale crises. In crises, however, there are two areas that can help people cope with their problems: food security and energy security. The green turn command boards taken over from Brussels without reservations and in the supreme slave spirit threaten both sectors. Farmers have already warned that green mental illness will destroy Estonian food production in the future. However, green disease in energy is staring back at us from our electricity bills, although there has never been a proper winter. The government's recommendation to distribute over-the-counter bills over a year is insane. Sharing misery doesn't help a million poor people in the country, doesn't add wealth. The only way for the country to protect its people today is to be determined to continue and develop oil shale energy, not to close Judah against euros. Action must be taken not immediately, but immediately. The question is why the boilers in the power plants are repairing in winter and why some are not launched. Where are the energy risk assessments and crisis plans? Why do we see frightened faces and listen to infantile excuses when talking about electricity prices? Why are we still being bullshitted by bringing forward a small share of renewable energy as a cause of the crisis? Why does the government not listen to people who know the subject, and why do people who obviously do not know the subject still sit on the board of Eesti Energia and Elering? A merely first-degree person with generalization will realize that no one will come to our aid. And that has been proven to us in the near future. We have to cope on our own, both in war, as terrible as this prospect may seem in peace. Two corrupt sections of government, however, cannot or do not want to think ahead of two moves. There is also a third possibility: these people have knowingly broken their oath of office and serve the interests of someone else. Six months ago, it may have seemed that the government was acting as a foreign power, a sick ideology and a ruler, if you wish, as an occupation force with its censorship, bloodhounds, clubs and automatics. But today, life has become even more cafical. Admittedly, there is a certain evolution in the government. The virologists with the mental disorder of the Reform Party have discovered that Chinese disease does not spread at film festivals and major concerts, but it poses a fatal threat in small cafes and even on ski slopes. That's brilliant! After pushing through the crippling budget, the government has begun to act like a battalion of destruction, with the tactics of the burned earth. We have the Prime Minister and the characters that a smart homeowner wouldn't even choose on the board of a building management company. People who are incompetent, cowardly, inert and disguise weaknesses with accusations, lies, arrogance, and evil. Estonia, which restored independence, has never been so depressed before Christmas. If anyone thinks things can't get any worse, they can. And as this government continues, it gets [worse]. In a self-destructive green turn, only the first timid steps have been taken. A year later, before Christmas, we will probably remember today as a time when life was lousy, but we did something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U138	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U139	My fellow Member actually helped us with this kind of Zen-budist speech. My dear colleague has left, but he summed up the government's philosophy: shock therapy. Good old shock therapy! We remember back in the '90s, shock therapy. His aforism summed up the whole report, the whole subject. The price will help. [[Laughing.]] The price's helping! Speak it, repeat it, everyone will want to listen! The price's helping, the price's making it work. Just as in dry times pots and pans are stocked and collected in the summer with this other rainwater. Yeah... And another sentence was there: above all, it makes people save. It's a good thing we have protocol, and those words are all in it. Prospective historians will receive all of this beautifully in writing [putting], which occurred at the height of Lyssekism. In Rakvere, Grillers' cafe, one of the most popular cafes, a small burger cafe, closed doors for two days and a sign on the door that soon we'll close it if it continues. It was their way of protesting. There was no fight with the police, they just said for two days that we weren't making money, but we were about to be hit, at the bottom. But what else would they save on the advice of a respected colleague? Do we turn off the lights in the cafeteria and they eat a burger in cell phone white, and the meat gets almost half-baked on this little oven? Where else do they have to squeeze? Let him explain his savings trick. Let him personally show you the light on his cell phone. I want to know what the owner of the Grillers will say to this extremely experienced person. But what are the real solutions? Solutions to an independent country, these real solutions, not like a province that listens to what's being thought, what's being told somewhere, what false science has been flooding on the surface. Urmas Reinsalu said we've been hit by a surprise. Well, climate change isn't a surprise. It has such a high dose of michurinlus and lionishism as in their golden times. Lenin's order was obtained, put on the wall, but no common sense was obtained. It's embarrassing so far. Remember, there was a big campaign in China to hunt sparrows? It was a hell of a campaign, but the mutts ate after the crops. Yes, the surprise was that during the summer, it was decided to go especially ahead of the five-year plan in two years. The price of CO2 was further pushed up, all the bars were pushed to the bottom. I don't know where they got so busy, because the lights are already flashing in Germany, not just here. The lights are flashing! The flagship of our industry, a 150-year-old Kunda cement factory, which was one of Tsar-Russia's most advanced factories, triggers workers. Right next door, Estonian Cell just shut down production because he can't afford to pay the electricity bill. So we're gonna start paying them unemployment benefits soon, and that's gonna go into that price too. There is no point in confusing yourself with the idea that the stock exchange might start working because the energy deficit is getting worse. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U140	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U141	It goes down every day. More radical views need to be taken along the lines of Poland. And actually, we have to stop the air trade in CO2, this endless speculation, which has also become a complete cartoon. What does part of this climate charlatan remind me of? It reminds me of trotschism. Then it was also the case that you should suffer, for the victory of communism you must suffer. You have to suffer! We remember they had catering commissars carrying grain bags where they needed to. It didn't matter whether a person went hungry or not. But even in Communist Russia it was understood that, listen, we cannot even impose communism in this way, but a new economic policy, or NEP, was declared. It gave them a breather to establish communism, even they realized that military communism did not go far, did it? Until the next madness, or kolkhousid, when everything went up. As long as there are no brave people leaving the stock market and ending CO2 speculation, every effort should be made to make sure that our consumers survive the winter. They have no ability to plan when the price jumps up and down. Sand is talking about 3000 euros, whichever price loan is excluded. How are they going to survive this? From the other end, I remember the wartime methods again. Estonian People's Common Assistance was founded, and the collection of non-ferrous metal began. All these crisis-time measures. ETV should do a corresponding show that teaches you how to collect water and build your own windmill, etc. Arvi Hamburg sadly stated that we need to start managing consumption. But it is a surrender, however, to accept that we have become a country where half [within range] is a deficit from the electricity importing country. Half [in range], imagine! So the whole problem, however, begins with involving climate panic, which is a deeply politicised science, the favourite child of the Eurobürocrats. What should we do? Restoring energy security. This reasonable price has helped us for decades. This has led to the emergence of powerful companies offering jobs, such as the famous Estonian Cell. And we must not let Brussels command down our energy security. We'll make bold decisions for an independent country, then we'll get things under control in a month. But right now, you can see that cutting a dog's tail is a very thin slice. As owner of Eesti Energia, we could quickly set a fixed price and create a predictable situation. Does a private consumer know how to plan his life in advance when his bill has jumped from a few hundred to a thousand? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U142	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U143	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think none of us doubt that we are in a serious energy crisis. And just as we have heard here today, as Urmas Reinsalu referred to in the introductory speech: in fact, these roots already extend to every aspect of life. In essence, this has a total impact on our lives today, and if we do not take urgent steps here, this effect will only deepen and the crisis will become more and more disastrous. If the house is on fire, it is not time to discuss whether the new house should be more fireproof. The crisis management ABC is that it first needs to resolve the acute crisis and then look at what to do to avoid the crisis in the future. That's why I'm focusing on extinguishing the fire right now. In the government, partners differ, and this has led to a situation that does not allow for prompt decision-making. The steam goes to negotiations, disputes, fighting and solutions between itself, and there is not much left over from this steam. The main point of the dispute is whether or not to support people in a broad sense. The Minister for Economic Affairs has supported the proposal of the Fatherland to reduce VAT on energy carriers from 20% to 9%. It is not supported by the coalition partner; the main concern of the Reform Party is that the rich are also suddenly receiving help. The Nordics don't wrestle with this problem, and it seems to me that that's why they're much, much richer than we are. If we continue this way, we will never even make it to the 15 richest countries of the European Union, let alone the five. Because the price of energy affects the whole economy, all our well-being, the functioning of our country as a whole. It's elementary. But let's look at this decision, a little more into the proposal of the Fatherland. At first, the government installed 673 euros on the wealth scale. Understanding the ridiculous nature of such a decision, we are talking about EUR 1050 or the median wage, which is EUR 1200 circa. And everyone who gets to earn more than that wouldn't deserve support, so they'd be rich as they say. I don't share that approach. First of all, this line is in an absurd place. It should be if we somehow want to measure the wealth of society, many times higher. And on the other hand, hundreds of thousands of people, with a hat in their hands, are sent to the city or municipal government for support in order to cope somehow. It's very embarrassing to put these people in this position. At the same time, it means increasing red tape and spending millions on it, rather than supporting people with minimal bureaucracy, simply by means of a viable solution. Instead, the government is concerned that suddenly our people will become too rich, or we will support the rich too much. In addition to home consumers, I bring here another target group: our municipalities, which are very large energy consumers. Today's government's indecisiveness will also lead to a crisis for our governments due to the insane rise in energy prices and inflation. For municipalities, VAT is a cost and it is very cynical not to compensate them or to reduce this cost in today's situation. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U144	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U145	When we dealt with the state budget for the following year, and when we adopted it last week, we heard repeatedly from the coalition that our municipalities are rich and can be saved. We also regret to see this attitude when we talk about energy prices and without the help of local governments. The problems that have been created we will be seeing in the next year when municipalities are starting to reduce street lighting and energy use in education and culture institutions. We have to ask whether the reduced road safety in the form of blind streets and the increased criminogenicity are what we really want. This too must be added to today's indecisiveness and non-solving actions. Are closed community houses and libraries that cannot be heated, reduced lighting and damaged eyes in schools and kindergartens really what we want? Do we understand the extent to which electricity prices have an impact on our rural areas? I don't think we're at all, or at least the coalition hasn't thought about it at all. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal of the Fatherland to reduce VAT is a concrete proposal to provide assistance to domestic consumers and municipalities. I hope that we have all realised that a decision must be made immediately and that this decision must also have a real effect, not just a tremor of air. If the government is unable to make these decisions, then a new coalition must be created that can and dares to make quick decisions and help our people, not push them out of the rain to save them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U146	Urmas Reinsalu is about to make a call, but I can see there's a procedure before that. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U147	It is Parliament's practice that a member of the government who has made a presentation on a matter of national importance attends the Chamber. The Minister of Economic Affairs has now fled the hall unprecedentedly. Mr President, where is he? Why isn't he in the hall? The waitress we asked for and who volunteered for the presentation, Professor Hamburg, will attend the meeting, but the minister is missing. After all, these problems and reproaches are primarily intended and addressed to the government. Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U148	That's a good question. I can't answer that. I've been on the remote for about an hour and a half. I can't go looking for him either. It's good practice, of course. It's true. There's no order, but it's good practice. But let's continue the negotiations. Urmas Reinsalu, please! Three minutes extra time, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U149	Not only has the minister escaped. The representatives of the three opposition parties are in this Chamber and all members of the coalition have fled. This is then the view of the problem which, for society, for businesses and for the public, is the practical acute problem number one. One Member, a coalition member, said today that there is no need for these subsidies. We're rich. We don't need these benefits. This is, in fact, the moral perspective from which the government union proceeds in the debate. For, you see, the President of the sitting is aware that members of the Riigikogu and ministers have wage increases linked to the cost of living: inflation rises, wages also rise. There's no problem in reality. How cynical can we even be in a situation where we have acute problems on the table? We have tools on the table, we have legitimate measures on the table, you can choose from one toolbox or another, but you have to act. Instead, they just walk out of the room. None of my business. It's none of my business! What is happening in Estonia, what is happening to my people, is not my business. It is a symbol for me [meaning] that the Minister and all the coalition MEPs left the Chamber. So this is their two-way conversation with their people. I would like to express my special thanks to Professor Hamburg, who gave Parliament very important and critical information. In fact, calculated, when we are talking about implementing the reform of the electricity market, if we were to implement it from the beginning of next year, in view of the consumption of households in the order of 2 sharps, together with the reimbursement of the CO2 quota in the form of a public budget allocation, would be the victory for consumers? Domestic consumers EUR 290 million. It's that decision. This requires an amendment of the Electricity Market Act with a few paragraphs. This requires decisions relating to state budget resources. And this decision would have been made for his people. There is a cover for this: we will pay the CO2 quota money; all consumers will pay for it next year. But no decision will be made. And this decision is not made, I think, partly of cowardice and inertia, but partly of ideological reasons. One representative of Parliament's coalition, two coalition groups here, spoke out as an explanation; the arguments were these: we must force people to save. This price will help people to stick together and serve the goals of a green turn. [In] where society sees a problem, someone sees an opportunity. From my perspective. If there is such a reasoning, it is not possible to form a joint part in finding a solution. And it doesn't make any sense that two coalition parties, we heard the speeches of their representatives, there were many words, but there were no thoughts. So what's really gonna happen? Dear people of Estonia! Cute representatives of opposition forces in the Chamber! So, what did we find out today in this acute crisis? What will happen in the coming days, Mr President? The chairman of the sitting shall remain silent. He doesn't know the answers because they didn't give us the answers today. They were not provided either by a representative of the government or by representatives of a group of two government coalitions. The government minister said: all solutions are sensible, which serve this purpose. But what's his policy? If you are a man, you will say that this is my word and I will resign, or I will force another coalition partner to resign if the fundamental decisions that need to be taken in the interests of society as a whole do not go through in the interests of business-consumers. But you can do anything by shrugging your shoulders: I don't mind. Do it if you want! You have noticed that a representative of one of the coalition's political groups pointed to opposition representatives: why is there over-compensation of renewable energy [with a fee]? [It] is not okay, but the wrong finger points, in the wrong direction pointing the finger. The country's on lockdown. This government is not able to manage and maintain the Estonian state politically well. That's my clear understanding. It's amazing that this understanding was revealed in such a short time, in the months we've been reading. And that does not mean that it is an apology for us, Parliament. An apology for us to distance ourselves and say well, are poor rulers, fight among ourselves, stalemate has been and decisions are not taken. No, if necessary, the government must be changed, if necessary, these meetings must be held every day, if necessary, and people must be brought here to convey a message. We must not accept passiveness in a situation where we pay for it with closed businesses, lost jobs, impoverishment of people and a decline in real quality of life. And these are not slogans, this is what is happening today in real time on Estonia. It could be argued that a large part of the problems that have arisen Europe-wide are related to the economic environment, are linked to the objectives of the green turn, are linked to the supply problems. All right! But the solutions that require administrative decisions are in this Chamber, they are also in the hands of the government. But we'll watch and spread our hands. What are the men and women to whom the majority [with the votes] has been given the mandate of the Estonian people to lead and rule our country in difficult moments? They're marching out of the hall. It's just a shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U150	The President shall also remain silent because the President shall chair the sitting and not take part in the deliberations. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U151	Thank you, silent President of the sitting. And ladies and gentlemen, the silent coalition at the moment! I do not know if today is the case that the last speaker will put out the fire, but probably not on this subject. I think that there is a great deal to be said on this topic in the new year, because this energy issue, the price of energy, the shock in which the Estonian consumer is today, will probably not disappear in the near future. And the effects that come out later are just starting to get to all of us. And that is why I think that, from one angle or another, we will also come back to this issue in terms of pricing. But what we're probably sticking to for a very long time is an even bigger picture, or a picture of how we produce energy. How does energy move in our market? What is market volatility, what is governance capacity? This whole problem is living and breathing on the chest, and actually it's even a little pathetic, if you allow [so to say] to perceive it all just now that we're talking about a green turn. A green turn, where many MEPs must evaluate the whole package in order to negotiate internationally in order to find allies. But there is such chaos in the energy market in the context of prices. What are we really going to do about the green turn? We are doing what we have to do to expand all this price[thematics], the whole CO2 issue, to move it to other sectors, is transport, it's building-related, it's land use, it's different productions, it's forestry. It aspires to our food table, everywhere, and repeating this growth is exactly what is happening. When we look at emissions trade, and there has actually been a lot of talk about emissions trade today, one of the speakers said that it is a motivator. It's like a moving force. It will bring new knowledge to the market, or at least it will provide an opportunity for new knowledge to come. This may in some ways be accepted, but the European Commission has also said that the transition must be cost-effective. This transition must be cost-effective! It doesn't come from the holy spirit that we're praying to someone somewhere and then something happens. This change must survive our economy. If the economy does not survive it, then the countries will have to compensate for it somehow, but in that case, the question is what is the mechanism by which it is compensated. If we are talking here today about the need to compensate people for the cost of energy, then we say, oh-oh, it's okay, this market will compensate. That we have very good mechanisms, we have to believe in them, and that liberal market economy model will solve everything for us. But it doesn't. And I think it's the most thought-provoking story that we're chasing our own tail and trying to find a solution in this situation. Moreover, if we are based on the scientific aspect that Professor Hamburg has been trying to bring to our table today, I do not know which research [with this theory] could be protected if the European Commission, coming to the political market with the whole package, says that the floor is EUR 25, but we have achieved a result of EUR 350 per tonne. But those periods there are 40 years. And in today's case, we are already in a situation where we are close to EUR 100, but we have not even started yet. Something is very wrong and, in that sense, I agree with the honourable minister who says that this system needs to be reformed. But a member of the government is in a much better position in this sense than a member of Parliament who should give some kind of acceptance to some position negotiation when we are talking about a green turn. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U152	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U153	What acceptance do we give if we do not have an impact analysis if we realise that this whole basis, or decarbonisation issue, as the basis for trade in emissions in the context of an economically reasonable transition, is a phobia? What do we give some kind of consent to? And we all know that, in fact, all our counties know this, Estonian industrialists, entrepreneurs know that the very important factor in survival and competitive advantage is the cost of energy. This is very important! This has recently been said by all investors who have come to Estonia primarily for this reason. We are no longer competing with people, certainly we are competing with knowledge and not with simple labour, because there are few people everywhere and people do not want to work easily. Science's potential is a story of its own. And now we are in the situation that the price of energy is such that we are in the worst position here in the Nordic region. I understand that the French will like it in themselves and they will probably hurry, because they have CO2 issues in relation to atomic power capacities that are not the issue at all. They're the biggest winners in this. And if we sign the so-called 'rules' that have been brought to our table today, unfortunately, as a consolidated set, I will probably sign the death sentence for certain sectors as a Member of Parliament. But that's not what I've been chosen for. We have been chosen to promote, develop, cultivate prosperity, [even if] to do so must take a step backwards. And a step backwards is actually admitting our mistake, and that's the fact that we have to start compensating for it, this crazy situation. But we don't even want to admit it, we'll say it's okay, maybe it'll pass. Well, don't miss. And I'm obviously not the last one to put out the fire. This debate continues. And I thank everyone involved. I would like to thank Mr Reinsalu, on behalf of the Commission, who raised this issue. This discussion, as if we have to come from a special committee on budgetary control at ministerial level with analyses and proposals, we have not yet received the authority of the government and they have not been given here. Let each one of us stick to the grids, and I'm sure these shoes will be finished one day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U154	Sven Sester, the line? Speaking about it, got it. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U155	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank today's speakers, Arvi Hamburg, who was primarily in the role of expert, who gave Members of Parliament important information, in my opinion, about what decisions we could take and what the consequences would be if we did not make these decisions. And I thank Urmas Reinsalu, who brought this important subject to the hall today. It makes me a little sad, and it actually surprises me that we are practically talking to the chairman of the meeting in a two-way conversation, and perhaps some of the other Members of Parliament who are in this Chamber. There hasn't been a coalition ambassador left in the hall by now. I think this is actually the moment and the place where we should overcome the differences between politicians and our possible political differences. At this point we are not speaking on behalf of one party or another, but we should actually speak on behalf of our voters and Estonian citizens. I think that the proposals that have sounded in this Chamber today in the context of a possible reform of the electricity market are steps that sooner or later will have to be taken. The parties who today, in principle, deny the need to implement the reform, which will ultimately help Estonian citizens overcome the current price shock, will sooner or later realise that it is not important whether it is proposed by a representative of the opposition or not. I would like to thank once again for this meaningful debate and I hope that decisions in the near future will help to overcome the shock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-14_U156	Thank you very much. We will not see any more requests to speak, we will be able to close the negotiations. The item has also been exhausted, and today's sitting is closed.
