ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U1	Ladies and gentlemen, These weren't Christmas bells yet, but I'm happy to welcome you here, that you have arrived nicely in the grand hall of the Riigikogu through the fluttering snow. We have the opportunity to open the Monday session of the 10th working week of the VI plenary session. As usual, at the beginning of the sitting, it is possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U2	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make an inquiry to Mr Taavi Asa, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Every week I travel from Tartu to Tallinn and from Tallinn to Tartu by train Elron. We're gonna fight the COVID...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U3	Mr. Lotman! I'll interrupt for a second. Ladies and gentlemen, [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I understand we haven't been together in this hall in a while, but please let's listen. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U4	Yeah. I'll start differently. There are two ways to look for a lost key: where there's white and where you lost. They usually look where it's white. So we often fight this pandemic. We're putting pretty tight restrictions where it's white. But on trains, for example, the sanitary situation is absolutely different. Yesterday I drove from Tartu to Tallinn, the train was short and he was full, people were standing. When I asked you where there was a chance to sterilize your hands, they said you could wash in the bathroom. But there's one toilet on the train, and it's not that easy to push through there. There is no mention of any social distance. If the ticket salesman sells tickets, he'll also say put on the masks. When he leaves, the masks are mostly gone. And there's this habit on trains that people are going to eat. We have very strict restrictions at the feeding grounds. But on a very short train, people eat, breathe, and so on. We know that the current virus-hertamb omicron is highly contagious. I have some specific questions for the Minister on how he intends to combat this situation. Right now, Elron only deals with raising the price, but he doesn't take care of the passengers. Thank you. And I ask you to answer both in writing and orally.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U5	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will present an inquiry to the Minister of Health and Labour, Tanel Kiige. This concerns the vaccination of children aged 5 to 11 years. The National Expert Committee on Immunoprophylaxis, which was gathered at the Ministry of Social Affairs on 30 November, recommends vaccination of children aged 5 to 11 years to reduce the risk of serious illness and complications in COVID-19 disease in this age group and to stop the spread of the virus in children's collections and in the community. According to the Commission, studies have confirmed that vaccination against COVID-19 is effective in reducing both infections and diseases, particularly serious diseases, in all age groups, including children. Irja Lutsar, Head of the Scientific Advisory Board, has said to the "Actual Camera" that a wider vaccination of children could begin at the beginning of the new year. At the same time, a significant number of doctors and medical researchers around the world have warned about the vaccination of children, indicating that the long-term safety of COVID vaccines for children is currently not guaranteed. Without extensive and repeated [studies] and long-term safety data, the risk to children's health remains too high in the long term and therefore vaccination of healthy children is not justified. We have eight questions from the above, including: how many children 5 to 11 years of age have been infected with the coronavirus in Estonia? How many children aged 5 to 11 have been hospitalized? And why does the Commission recommend vaccination in a situation where there is no consensus among world health professionals on the benefits of vaccination against children's coronavirus? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U7	Are you guys gonna make an inquiry? Yeah. Now as representative of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching four draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law amending the International Sanctions Act and the Ship Flag Law and the Ship Registers Act. The Government of the Republic shall be represented by the Minister of Foreign Affairs in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the draft Commercial Register Act. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Justice. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Population Register Act and related amendments to other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of the Interior in the proceedings of the draft law. And fourthly, the draft law amending the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuels and the Act implementing the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Rural Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U9	Now, on behalf of the Bureau, I have adopted four drafts and two referrals and, of course, the Bureau will decide on their further processing in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. It's time to carry out a presence check. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U10	80 members of the Riigikogu registered. I have one small item on the agenda to tell you. Namely, the Social Democratic Party Group and Riigikogu Member Raimond Kaljulaid have proposed to remove the third item on the agenda of today's sitting, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Traffic Act that they have initiated. With this little clarification, I will put to the vote the agenda for the 10th working week of the VI session. Mr. Ceder, a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U11	Thank you. Yes, I have a question on the agenda. In fact, we now have a number of drafts on the agenda of this week, which will be on two readings in one week. We have repeatedly stated in this large Chamber in the Riigikogu that this is not good practice. And I still think it's not a good practice, all the more so as we still have a working week next week. For what reason did the Bureau now decide to draw up such an agenda that we have two readings [this week's two drafts], today and Wednesday, in an unusually urgent fashion? Why did we go this way?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U12	Thank you for that question. In the Bureau, we have indeed raised the issue of whether it is possible to deal with these drafts for two consecutive weeks, as is our 'unwritten practice'. In the case of these drafts, if my memory does not deceive me, it was a concern that we should also give the President of the Republic time to review and announce these drafts and to publish them in the Official Journal so that they can enter into force on 1 January. And as a result, there is a request that we process them today and Wednesday. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U13	Thank you! On Tuesday, the fourth item is entitled "Estonian Digital Society Development Plan for 2030." Where would it be possible to get to know it in advance, there was no one around here?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U14	It is available to all members of the Riigikogu in the information system of preliminary proceedings, but we ask the session department to bring some versions to the drawers here. But the members of the Riigikogu have access to it digitally, according to the digital society. Mr. Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U15	Thank you. I do not understand your answer in any way, Mr President of the sitting. There is no problem if the law enters into force on 5 or 10 January, instead of 1 January, if it is adopted and announced a little later. And can it be understood that next week we will not adopt any draft laws? It is the same with other drafts that the President needs time to see them before they are announced. And as a result, we may have to start changing the Rules of Procedure at all, ending the year of work earlier so that the President can get acquainted with the drafts. There is no point in working here before Christmas if we cannot adopt the draft laws because the President cannot get to know them and announce them. That's a very strange reason to be honest.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U16	Thank you. First of all, of course, it is our committees who are proposing to us in this large hall how one or the other draft could be dealt with. The task of the board, as you remember very well, is to try and find a reasonable compromise with the committees. That's what we've been trying to do. Now, if you come back to these drafts for a moment, the first item of the draft 442, which is our agenda today, is related to the state budget and it must have been adopted before the state budget law. And the second draft, 474 SE, is related to the fact that it must enter into force on 1 January. So we really did see if it would be possible to deal with this in two weeks. The Bureau will certainly continue to follow this principle and will also give this guideline to all committees to try to work as hard as possible so that we are not in a position where we have to discuss the draft one week, but in exceptional cases, in very rare cases, we have done so, and this time the agenda will be the same before you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U17	Good vice chairman! I'm gonna go over it to develop competence. As far as I know, the new president has a legal advisor. There's no more concern about what happened to the last one that he had to read everything and think about it on the flight. There's not gonna be a moment coming up here that maybe he'll send the bill back to us. But what if the legal counsel finds that we've ripped off and made a mistake? So what about that January 1st? He's automatically going to January 1, 2023?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U18	Thank you. If the President of the Republic decides to return the draft to the Grand Chamber of the Riigikogu, then of course the Riigikogu's decision is either a) to stick to the draft that we have adopted here once, or b) to reopen the draft. This means that it is going to prepare the Commission for second reading, and then there will also be a deadline for the submission of amendments, during which it will also be possible to change the date of entry into force. There's been an internship here before. Mr. Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U19	Thank you. If these drafts are related to the state budget, then the state budget can also be adopted calmly next week. We don't have to do this on 8 December. Our previous practice has repeatedly been that we have also adopted the state budget at a later date in December and so far the Presidents have been able to announce it and it has still come into force on 1 January. There was no problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U20	Peter Ernits, please! [[In the diner.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I really do not hear Mr Ernitsa. He's already started talking. Please, Mr. Ernits!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U21	I'll wait until it's possible to talk.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U22	Yeah, the microphone's in, so I'll try to catch you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U23	First of all, thank you! Before the break [a few] weeks was Monday completely empty, now there's a little something crumbled on Monday. But Wednesday is another such exhaustion tactic: 25 [days] points. My question is, it is purely procedural: why does the Board of the Riigikogu not act in a balanced way and wear colleagues out for so long one day instead of distributing these points?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U24	Thank you, Mr. Ernits. As I said earlier, the Bureau receives input from committees to draw up the agenda. That's one. Secondly, if we take the Wednesday agenda, I would advise you to look in there a little bit. This 25 points may seem long, but the vast majority of these points are final votes, including missions. So I believe that we can also deal with the Wednesday agenda with a perfectly reasonable timetable. Mr. Ernits, please, you have more questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U25	Yeah, I have another procedure. Every year there is such a treat: the fundamentals of criminal policy. But now I see that Minister Lauri has gone to the short version: four pages, and that's it. Why has such a short version taken place?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U26	As soon as we arrive at the approved agenda and we begin to process the agenda, you will be able to ask Mrs Lauri about this on the fourth point. I do not see any further questions on the agenda for the 10th working week of the VI session. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U27	by 65 votes to 6, with 2 abstentions. We can get to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U28	The first item on today's agenda is the second reading of the draft law 442 on amendments to competition law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Please present Annely Akkermanni, representative of the Economic Commission for the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U29	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I'm sorry, I have a slight hoarseness and a cold, but not this disease. The draft law amending the Competition Act and related amendments to other laws was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 27 September. The draft states the grounds on which the tasks of the Competition Authority would also be financed by supervisory fees. According to the draft, supervisory fees will be charged to regulated monopoly companies, but these supervisory fees will be included in the regulated price and will therefore eventually end up in the accounts of the final consumers of those monopoly companies. The rates are set by law and cannot be traded. This will ensure the independence of the Agency. A similar financing model is used in Estonia to finance the Financial Supervision Authority, and it is used by several economic regulators in European countries. The Authority's second strand, competition supervision, would continue to be financed from the state budget. In substantive law, as a major amendment to the competition law, the draft establishes the basis for the payment of supervisory fees. In addition, the Law on public water supply and sewerage is amended, resulting in the price regulation of all water undertakings being placed under the control of the Competition Authority. In the light of the above amendment, the draft also amends the Electricity Market Act, the District heating Act, the Aviation Act, the Natural Gas Act, the Postal Act and the Port Act. In the latter specific laws, a reference is added to the fact that the competition authority is paid supervisory fees on the basis and in accordance with the procedures laid down in the Competition Act. The draft is directly linked to the state budget for 2022 and does not relate to the transposition of European Union directives or to the green turnaround, as some have been mentioned. The first reading of draft 442 took place on 27 October, with the deadline of 10 November at 5.15 p.m. No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees. The draft procedure was notified to the parliament by the Estonian Employers' Confederation, the Estonian Water Company Association, the Estonian Power Stations and District heating Association, the Estonian Gas Association, the Estonian Electric Industries Association, the Southwestern Railway AS, the Operail AS, the Estonian Liner Trains, the Estonian Ports Association, the Port of Tallinn of AS, the Saarte Liner AS, Pärnu Sadam AS, the Port of Sillamäe AS, the Estonian Post, the Tallinn Airport of AS, the Estonian Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority, the Estonian Association of Apartments and the Estonian Owners' Confederation. The Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Estonian Power Stations and District heating Association and the Estonian Water Company Association gave their opinion on the draft. His views on the draft proposals and opinions were presented to the Committee on Economic Affairs by the initiator of the draft, the Ministry of Justice. All opinions and views on the draft can be consulted on the draft map. In the absence of time, I will not introduce them to all of you in very detailed terms. The working group of the Economic Commission prepared the draft for a meeting of the Commission at its meeting on 22 November, attended by the representatives of the initiator and those who made their proposals known to us. These are the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Estonian Power Plants and District heating Association and representatives of the Estonian Water Association. They presented their views to the members of the Commission and to the members of the group, answered the questions and held a debate. The respondents, these three above, do not support this initiative in principle and consider that the funding of the Competition Authority should be continued only in its current form from the state budget. The representative of the Ministry explained that, in the fundamental question of whether the financing problem of the Competition Authority could be solved by increasing public funding or imposing supervisory fees, there were indeed conflicting views with the respondents. The representative of the Ministry of Justice further explained that the draft was a solution to the problem of the under-funding of the Competition Authority over a long period of years. At the meeting of the Commission, the representative of the Ministry pointed out that we are dealing with a weakening regulator who should be able to control monopoly companies in the interests of the consumer, in case the options of the regulator are contested. It is also clear that the Estonian Competition Authority does not use cratches or artificial intelligence systems, they are not used in competition monitoring to find anomalies, nor in price coordination. There's a lot of manual work. And in solving the financing problem, there are two options: whether public funding is being increased or supervisory fees are being used, just as the Financial Supervision Authority is using some other European countries. Between the two readings, the draft editorial board passed, and the resulting linguistic and technical improvements have been incorporated into the draft in a underlined way. The Committee on Economic Affairs made procedural decisions and proposals. These are: to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading today, 6 December and to conclude the second reading, and when the second reading is closed, the Commission's proposal to put the draft on the Riigikogu for a third reading on 8 December and to hold a final vote. And summing up, please support the draft for three reasons. Firstly, the draft reduces the responsibilities of local authorities and the supervision of the price regulation of water undertakings will be carried out in the future by the Competition Authority. Secondly, the draft strengthens the competition authority and solves the long-term problem of underfunding, strengthens the capacity to monitor prices. And thirdly, which I think is very important: although the Commission asked the consumer representatives who will have to pay for this regulation, price monitoring in the future, the Estonian Association of Apartment Cooperatives and the Estonian Owners' Association did not object to the draft. The objections to the draft came primarily from those organisations whose pricing is monitored. That's all I got. Our meetings were longer, and if anyone wants to ask about any aspects, I will wait for your questions. Thank you in advance!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U30	And there are questions. Tarmo Kruus Mountain begins. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U31	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Just as the vice-chairman told us here a little while ago, it has something to do with the state budget. How much is the estimated revenue, say, per municipality and per state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U32	There is no forecast of revenue for the municipalities, the responsibilities of the municipalities are decreasing. Indeed, the prices of smaller water companies were still coordinated by the local authority, but they no longer have this task in the future, it is moving to the Competition Authority. The state budget accounts for EUR 1.6 million of supervisory fees and the Competition Authority's budget will increase by EUR 700000.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U33	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U34	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! At first reading, there was also the question of exempting railway companies from the supervision of the Competition Authority, and a good minister replied that indeed, if you wish, you could put it in. Whether this was mentioned at the meeting of the Commission, and if not, you may be able to explain why it has been. The minister said, well, if you'd like, maybe put it in.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U35	Yes, I myself received attention in the explanatory statement of this sentence, as railway companies do not have to pay the supervisory fee, because the Competition Authority is so financed by the state budget. However, according to the current plans, price monitoring will be financed by the companies monitored. And I started browsing backwards this rail legislation and saw that the fee for the use of their infrastructure, i.e. the fee for road rail, is set by the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority. In fact, I asked the group meeting who would set Elron's fare. They'll be established by the Ministry. And the final solution to this problem was that it is still possible to appeal to the Competition Authority about the fees imposed by the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority, but in this case the Competition Authority carries out proceedings within the framework of the other party, namely the monitoring of the conditions of competition. These charges, which are collected by price monitoring, do not address the railway problem and are not financed. This could be the solution to the problem that was left here at first reading. If you look at it more broadly, you might think that suddenly the setting of Elron's prices could move from the ministry to the Competition Authority, and in this case with a fee. But this was not discussed within the framework of this draft, perhaps we could discuss it in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U36	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U37	Good manager! Good waitress! As I understand it, this is a bill to rehabilitate a weakening regulator. But it says here that there is a need to contain the wealthy monopoly companies and their lawyers. Why don't you open up to the wealthy monopolistic companies that need to be contained by this infirm or debilitating regulator?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U38	We often see the emotions of the drafts as rich monopolistic [companies] and strong lawyers and law firms. Yeah, I was thinking about the word "rich," which is a profoundly relative term for a financialist, but that word was really there. Whether he should have been is a question of his own. However, each draft also reflects some experience and the most painful experience or the most painful struggle, [on which] probably during its preparation [had been thought], is the competition authority's struggle in relation to the prices of Tallinn Water, which ended in Paris in arbitration, I now cannot say by heart the name of the court, which was the exact name of the court in which the price reduction was achieved. And now I understand that I have read in the news as you have, that the water users of Tallinn Water have laid off the requirements and are going to demand the repayment of excessively high water charges. Let's just say that monopolistic companies are those network companies where a single customer cannot choose and needs general representation or national representation in order to protect his interests.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U39	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U40	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! In the case of Tallinn Vee, these requirements have already been submitted and the city of Tallinn is already refusing. It probably doesn't exist at all. If the city of Tallinn refuses, it will remain so. They'll try again. But my question is that you said that water monitoring and related questions will all go away. You've read out a series of other companies that aren't just water-based. Does this mean that we will not only exempt the local authorities with this draft from water monitoring and the issues it raises, but also from everyone else. Go, go, go, go, go, go. I couldn't get any drums right now. But, well, Graps 70. Drums gone, sticks gone.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U41	There are seven areas for supervision by the Competition Authority on the basis of seven different laws. I am not going to quote from the head, but I will find them in total over 300 network areas; they are the electricity market law, the district heating law, the aviation law, the natural gas law, the port law, the public water supply and sewerage law. These are all network companies and their prices will be monitored more closely by the Competition Authority. In my opinion, strengthening the competition authority also means that if there is another similar case, as was the painful Tallinn Water case, you will be better prepared.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U42	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U43	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I'll come back to that first reading. There we also discussed Table 2 in the budget explanatory memorandum, if I remember correctly. Estonia did not look good in the table and the Minister could not explain it, said that the fees should be increased because the Competition Authority must be strengthened. And when asked about this table why this table is what this table should support, it tried to make connections there, but frankly, it was very unclear and incomprehensible. Did the Commission mention what this table 2 was for at all, if it could not justify these charges in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U44	These fees are set relatively mathematically. Those whose price is first coordinated by the Competition Authority pay 0.2% and who will be monitored afterwards will pay 0,02% of their turnover. In this sense, rather mechanical [solution].
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U45	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U46	Good manager and waitress! I was happy to read that the Competition Authority would let us adopt this bill, cratches in our room, ticks or small shrimps carrying the property together. Give me a little description of what these Krats are gonna do! As I know, these cratches are probably in the 20 institutions in Estonia right now. But what are those Krats going to do at the Competition Authority with their rich monopoly so you called it corporate management?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U47	The word "artificial intelligence" is called "crats." I don't even know what word is best used in Estonian. Machines are made to compare data from different similar companies and to search for anomalies that can be viewed more accurately with the human eye. The Competition Authority said that so far they do not have any such artificial intelligence applications and that they have to compare the different prices, price formations and price components of similar companies manually. Yes, I'm sorry, artificial intelligence, it's artificial intelligence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U48	No further questions. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U49	Thank you very much for the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U50	I'm opening negotiations. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U51	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good colleagues and all the people who follow us online! The work of the Competition Authority is extremely strange, and I wanted to come to this remote control rather because it is a little surprising that we now have postal services on the monopoly side. We know Omniva just wants to break things up. The package economy, it is effective, but the distribution of magazines and some important messages is not so profitable at all. But this is our information, ours. I remember a movie with Kevin Costner, where he was such a postman, a skipper-cappad, a horse, and said that the United States of America [did] go to where he was taking the letter. Our Postal Act and the International Postal Act state that pornographic material may not be transferred. Today, in 2021 and perhaps in 2022, it seems rather odd. There's still such a clause in there. In order to lift our ivet even a little bit, we have erotic stores offering their own variety, but it is forbidden to wear [widely]. The other thing that we are banned from is really, over and over, e-cigarettes and related matters. They have a national ban on distance selling, which has led to our young people becoming criminals and criminals, because we have found, for some vague fiscal policy [for reasons], that the Estonian economy would be more prosperous if the e-cigarettes did not have tastes. This amendment has just come to us from the major specialists of the Ministry of Finance. Happiness is now arriving in our yard but in a very different way. People who want, for example, pear-flavoured e-liquids, be they [those cigarettes] even once, their sales on the black market have grown quite well. They sell well. Perhaps young people can develop their own entrepreneurial spirit, but I think that teaching young people entrepreneurship in the shadow economy is not [right]. Well, somewhere I have to tell you this, because these are the problems that the Committee on Social Affairs has faced. But we dare not hold these debates; they have never reached second reading. Because we're scared. Indeed, there is reason to fear: if adult people still choose a product that still has taste, it is from the devil. Happy Finnish Independence Day, good Finland! But surprisingly, we can order firearms by mail. We can order alcohol and ordinary tobacco by post, and it's all a winch at this point, just like entrepreneurship. And the venoms, as we hear from the police, are gonna be terrible. Post workers are lucky they don't have to test them because there are now some mechanical testers. Otherwise, there wouldn't be a focus for the Midsummer Day that comes out of it. Somehow a sleazy-logadi is our law, it seems they're not to be enforced. We're gonna write something down, we're gonna pop some standard, we're gonna go, we're gonna go, we're gonna go! And then sometimes we find out if it's about that you can't order a foldable umbrella, and just because somebody used to think that a foldable umbrella shouldn't be ordered. That's the way it is. However, as far as water is concerned, we are good and we free the local government, say, from surveillance and from that, I do not know. As far as I have heard from the people of local governments once there in the union of Estonian cities, all of them had some problems with this water service provider. And I'd call it a water net. But in the case of mail, it's like it's Omniva who owns a monopoly on the market. It's not like that. It's all the way today. Even if you really want to, Bolt's gonna pick you up a package from another town, and there's nothing. Plus, there's some DHLs and stuff. I don't know how this postal law got here, but I appreciate the fact that this postal law came in, and I could say yes, our laws are so backwards that you can order alcohol and everything else, but there are two things you can't. Pornography can't be ordered, but people do. We who create this legislation can also order our documents by post. But of course, these villains, seasoned e-cigarettes, too, that's something you can't order by post. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U52	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We do not have any amendments to this draft. The commission has proposed that the second reading of draft 442 be terminated. We're done with second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U53	Our second item today is the second reading of the draft law amending the family law initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in this connection, the amendment of other laws. I would like to present a speech to Mr Vilja Toomas, member of the Legal Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U54	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the preparation for the second and third reading on Thursday 25 November of the draft law on the amendment of family law initiated by the Government and the related amendment of other laws by 474. By this time, the Commission had received five written positions from the following organisations: the NGO Association Fathers' Front, the Association of Estonian Cities and Valdade, the Koda of Law Enforcement and Bankruptcy Administrators, the NGO Children's Protection Association and the NGO Children's Parental Association. Two proposals came from Riigikogu member Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski and three from the Social Democratic Party Group. I will now give an overview of what these proposals contained, and then I will come to the discussion of the amendments. The NGO Child Welfare Association, represented by Ireen Kangro, still considers that the draft would require further analysis of the effects of the changes and in particular the interests of the child. According to him, there is no answer to the questions on whose behalf the draft has been drafted and whether it is fair to the children entitled to maintenance. In addition, he stated that the explanatory memorandum did not show how the new system had taken into account the actual cost of each individual child and how the required parent's income as laid down in the draft was taken into account. According to him, according to the draft, the state would impose an additional burden of proof on a single parent living with a child if [he wanted] to apply for an additional amount to be added to the basic amount, i.e. a living corresponding to the child's actual needs. Andra Olm, Adviser to the Department of Private Law at the Legal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice, commented on the position of the Child Protection Association in such a way that the needs of the child and the effects of [changes] on the child are the most analysed part of this draft. A total of 55-page research has been carried out by researchers from the University of Tartu and PricewaterhouseCoopers. These studies included various analyses of child costs. It also gives rise to the basic amount of maintenance paid by one parent. According to studies, it was EUR 181 per month, increased by the Ministry to EUR 200 plus 3% of the average gross wage. Thus, the basic amount of the maintenance is practically EUR 250. In his view, a minimum living above this basic amount is not realistic given the standard of living in Estonia, and he also said that a reduction in this amount is only possible in exceptional cases, for example if the parent is unable to work or if the parent starved a child in the new household. A small wage is not a good reason to reduce maintenance. Ardi Kadanik, who represented the NGO Community for the Fathers, said that this accounting part could be four days instead of seven days. He pointed out that it was important to enforce this law this year, because next year the livelihood will rise by EUR 35 for all payers and they will see the debtors grow. He said that during the four years that took place in preparation of the draft, more than 800 to 1 000 people had come to live in debtors a year. This for four days instead of seven means that if the child stays with the other parent for seven days, his or her maintenance obligation will be reduced by that amount. It was thought that the seven days would be too long, and the other parent with whom the child spends six seven days would have too much financial responsibility. This was also commented by Andra Olm, the representative of the Ministry of Justice, who said that the number of days spent with children is set at seven days a month, because for fewer days spent together, the parent raising the child is the main burden of raising the child, with additional costs, such as hiring a babysitter. The representative of the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities, Janne Kivistik, pointed out that in order to avoid litigation, it should be pointed out specifically which needs and expenses are covered by the basic amount. He also said that the calculator should be ready by the time the law was passed. He pointed out that the draft did not take into account the impact on local governments. The calculator is what the Ministry puts into the law in order to calculate the amount of the basic amount, taking into account all the circumstances, that could come with a specific agreement. Andra Olm made it clear that the basic amount could not be disputed in court. He said that the calculator was currently dealing with details and verification and confirmed that it would be ready by the time the law came into force. Katrin Vellet, representative of the Law Enforcement and Bankruptcy Administrators, pointed out that bailiffs would also need time to develop an IT solution to support their work due to legislative changes, and funding for this should come from the state. He stated that there was very little time until 1 January 2022 and that bailiffs were not prepared to comply with the changed laws. The representative of the Ministry commented on this in such a way that the new year will increase in either way to a minimum living and then the amounts already in execution should be recalculated. They are therefore frozen and there is no need for IT solutions for bailiffs to do so as an additional burden. In addition, the amendment, on the contrary, reduces the calculation burden for bailiffs. The position of Janek Rannis, a senior member of the NGO for the Child, was exactly the same as that of the NGO Commonwealth for the Fathers. They, too, felt that instead of seven days, this rate could be four days, from which point the amount paid by the payer of the maintenance would start to decrease. And now we get to the amendments, there were eight of them. The first amendment was tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and presented by Mr Pikhof. He proposed to clarify that the draft law specifically states that maintenance should be used in the interests of the child. The Ministry of Justice accepted this proposal and the Commission's consensus was that Tarmo Kruusimäe abstained, while the rest supported this amendment. The second amendment by the Group of the Social Democratic Party concerned the basic amount: they proposed that the basic amount be EUR 250, which is fixed by law. And the second amendment concerning the basic amount would be that the average maintenance costs of the child, depending on the age of the child, would also be added to the basic amount. The Ministry of Social Affairs didn't agree to this. As I explained earlier, if you put more 3% of the average wage on this base 200, the basic amount is actually 250 euros. This amendment was supported by Mr Pikhof; Mr Kruusimäe was impartial and the other members of the committee opposed. Two members of the Commission were absent. Since it received only one vote in favour, it is not a vote in this Chamber either. Further, the fourth and fifth amendments should be considered together. The fifth amendment is tabled by the Social Democratic Party and the fourth amendment is in line with the amendment tabled by [Commission] with the Ministry of Justice. They are essentially similar, but the wording of the amendment initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs and proposed by the Ministry is more precise and specific and, as a result, the Commission has consensually taken into account this amendment of the Committee on Legal Affairs itself, which replaces the word "income' with the words "asset'. So we took the amendment of the Social Democratic Party into account in substance. The first amendment by Ms Jufereva-Skuratovski concerned the reduction of maintenance when there is more than one child. In the case of a second child, her maintenance rate is reduced by 15%. He suggested that if children are of different genders, this 15% deduction should not be made. The Commission discussed this issue and found that... Well, he gave the example that pink jacket doesn't put on the boy. However, the Commission considered that this was not the kind of proposal that should be incorporated into the law. So it was not supported. The second proposal proposed by Ms Jufereva-Skuratovski was No 7 and the Commission's proposal was No 6 and should be examined together. They are essentially about legal clarity, and there is simply a linguistic correction: it remains 'based on a change in the legal situation'. Mr Jufereva-Skuratovski's proposal was to use the wording "to seek a new size of maintenance based on the provisions of the law in force'. Just to be clear. So the Commission supported the amendment that it initiated and Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski in substance. The Commission itself made a few amendments and they also concern some linguistic additions, there are a few linguistic changes. There's a long explanatory note here. I'm not going to read it to you in terms of saving time. Perhaps this second part is more important if the minor's child's maintenance claim is rejected, the costs of the proceedings may be borne, in whole or in part, by the legal representative who brought the action on behalf of the child, if the legal representative did not exercise his or her procedural rights in good faith when bringing or processing the action. It is such an amendment initiated by the Ministry and supported by the Commission, and it was supported by everyone present in the Commission in a consensual manner. And now, finally, procedural decisions. Propose to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 6 December, suggesting that the second reading be closed. And when the second reading is closed, propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and that the final vote be taken on 8 December. All the members of the Commission present supported all these proposals in a consensual manner. Thanks to me!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U55	And Priit Onion would like to ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U56	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! I have a question about the same amendment by Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski to the second child [residence rate] by 15% [reduction] and so on. I just want to understand what this debate was like in the Commission. You guys were smiling about pink jacket and nothing else. I think it's a substantive proposal and I'd like to understand. It makes sense that if children are of different genders, the costs may be slightly different. But how did your debate arrive at the fact that you did not support this proposal in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U57	Yeah, that pink jacket came from Maria herself. He pointed out in the Commission that there might be a need for more costs for children of different sexes and that therefore this [residual rate] should not be reduced by 15%. His example was that if, for example, there is an older child with a girl and a pink jacket, this pink jacket cannot be put on the boy. It seemed weird to me, too. So, what kind of world do we live in? Don't buy a pink jacket, buy a red jacket that suits both boys and girls. That was the debate, and the Commission did not consider this [argument] to be very convincing and reasonable in order not to implement this 15%. So far, it is within the law that if the age difference between children is more than three years, it will not be implemented, but Maria's proposal was indeed that if children are of different genders, it should not be implemented. This debate was relatively short.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U58	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U59	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I also asked the Commission several times whether any compromise had been tried, tried. It's been a few weeks since then. Is there a new knowledge or a compromise that was not negotiated between the various parties, that kind of life will live on its own, and both parties will blame the other party, and in the end it will be us ambassadors who are bitterly adopting the law? Do we have any new knowledge that some sort of compromise has been created?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U60	I don't understand what kind of compromise you're referring to or [what] opposites. [[They say something in the hall.]] They were discussed in the committee and there were no written proposals for this formula, nor did any member of the Riigikogu make any suggestions. As you well remember, a representative of the Ministry of Justice explained for a very long time and in depth that a variety of studies have been carried out in four years, 55 pages, where the costs for children of different ages have been weighed and played out in order to retrieve the basic amount. And so it is found in this formula: average salary and so on. It's just a base sum. If there is no agreement between parents on this, then it is always possible to go to court and argue whether this basic amount is [fair] or how big it could become. But there were no more compromises. This seven and four days was the second suggestion: whether the deduction begins from seven days when the child is staying for six seven days with another parent or four days. However, as I explained and explained in the Commission, an advisor to the Ministry of Justice, it makes no sense if only four days are needed to reduce the obligation, because the other parent, with whom the child is mostly living, will have to pay even higher costs than the second parent, who is obliged to pay for a living, would be able to get some kind of cents or a lump sum out of that maintenance allowance. I don't know any more compromises. [I don't know] what you're suggesting there were contradictions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U61	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U62	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. I'm just saying, when you buy a nice pink jacket for the first girl, no one knows when the next girl or boy is born, it's in three years, or after three years, or what could be her sex. I would like to hope that when buying a jacket, it does not have to be taken into account that maybe parents [sometime apart] do not have to consider whether to buy a pink or a red jacket. But my question is more about [Law] § 101 (1). The bill states that a monthly maintenance allowance for one child may not be less than the amount calculated in accordance with this paragraph. So the same § 101. But § 102 in itself speaks of both the reduction and the increase. Am I right to understand that the amount determined by law is when an agreement is reached, and can only be reduced or increased by the court? In this sense, there is no contradiction?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U63	Yes, there is no contradiction. For the Court, there are [known] relatively specific circumstances [to be taken into account], such as inability to work and so on. There are not many options in which the court could reduce [this money].
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U64	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U65	Thank you. Dear waitress, It didn't work out what you were saying, but can you tell me if it was clear in the committee whose interests this amendment protects? Are these the interests of the child, the interests of the debtor or the interests of someone else's third party? And if the Commission did not discuss it, maybe earlier times have discussed it, or what is your own comment?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U66	Thank you. All the logic of this law is that it is done in the interests of children. In the meantime, we were also talking about having a lot of maintenance debts, and over the four years, at least a thousand more came. Which is better, then, if the livelihood is slightly smaller than the current minimum living life, or half of the minimum wage, or if it is not paid at all? Above all, this law has been made in the interests of children, to protect the interests of children.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U67	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U68	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! By compromise, I meant that the various parties could talk about these matters and that these debates would also be opened in society. But, well, [so] is gone. I just want to make it clear [to say] that the ministry representative explained, but he did not provide any answers. He explained about why nothing could be done or why something should seem to be done, but he simply did not get a good substantive answer. That's my question. How do you feel? We have a draft here today [to discuss] and on Wednesday we already have a third reading, it has gone there [to order]. Have we sufficiently involved Estonian society, or is it today in the best of the Riigikogu's knowledge that we will do it quickly, take it or leave it, but such a law will come?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U69	Thank you. As I have said many times, this law has been prepared for four years. [Thinks] have been asked. It is based on studies carried out by the University of Tartu and PricewaterhouseCoopers and involves [others] in addition to those who made written proposals. These organisations were also and also to whom this draft law was sent for the purpose of expressing its opinion. So I do think that society, the Estonian public, at least through the representative organisations it concerns, is sufficiently informed and aware during this four year period. And what else can I say? The law should enter into force next year, otherwise the minimum living life that is still in force will have to be recalculated again. And that half of the minimum wage remains valid. The new law is undoubtedly much more flexible, and I cannot say in any way that there will certainly be a reduction in the amount of maintenance in the adoption of the new law. It is always possible to apply for higher [amounts]. Indeed, according to the current law, if you don't want to pay, you don't have to pay more than half the minimum wage. But under this law, it is possible to trade more flexibly and to show the needs of children. The State only sets the basic amount, because these are all private disputes. The state only makes some of its rules and lays down a basic amount which is not to be paid less, but everything else is an agreement between two grown-ups to raise their children together.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U70	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U71	Thank you. First of all, to comment on Mr Sibula's question concerning the amendment tabled by Ms Jufereva-Skuratovski. Can you really now understand that the Committee on Legal Affairs has so revolutionaryly begun to change our courtroom that there is no difference between a boy wearing a dress or [something else]? I can see that [in the case of children of different sexes] there may be significant additional costs that may not arise for children of the same sex. But if you've decided to make a major reform of our living space through this law, so be it. I can't argue with the opposition, you have votes. But my question is: please make it clear to me how it is in the interests of the children that the livelihood they receive is reduced by EUR 50. How is this in the interests of the children? But this is actually what happens as a result of this law from 1 January. The minimum is 243 instead of 292 so far. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] And this...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U72	Yes, but where, from which line or section do you read that if we adopt this law, from 1 January 2022, the maintenance will fall to EUR 50? I'd say maybe he's up 50 or 100 euros. None of the articles of this law states that maintenance will necessarily be reduced by EUR 50. He may increase, rather increase, but he is no longer so rigidly bound to this minimum requirement. In fact, there is no difference in substance between the maintenance aid [related to the minimum wage]. As far as these dresses and pants are concerned, I'm from the family where my mother sewed my brother's pants around me. And you see, I'm alive and I'm here. So I don't think that dress and pink jacket talk is quite serious.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U73	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Tarmo Kruusimäe!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U74	Thank you, good vice chairman. Dear colleagues on the beautiful Finnish Independence Day who listen to us online! The first keyword, of course, is that not knowing the law does not reduce responsibility. And the second keyword is that long done, beautiful. If this long-made beauty is made in office silence, then it is not really like society is involved in it when these studies have been carried out. Even the law of traffic, which we talked about, that it had been done for three years, [before] it came to us. And if we wanted to make a few changes, then [they said] we couldn't, because we've already done it. These changes that we talked about in this large Chamber of the Riigikogu within the framework of the Traffic Act, we will be dealing with in three years' time, not now, because the ministry official said that we would not agree with this. That is why we are dealing with exactly what has been done today. Now that's the law that's been done for four years. I remember a little while ago, maybe a year ago, I was talking to a good co-worker, Siret Kotka, coming from the population crisis problem committee, so it's time to move on with this bill. But we never opened the debate in public. Before came the stormy January, then the coalition changed, and now that this bill came, we still haven't seen these debates in society. We have all kinds of [shows] on television, maybe these [things discussed], I don't know. On TV, there are these trouble shows where the problems [are discussed], some are in favour and others are opposed. It's the only thing we've done is that there are ambassadors in general, and then there are people in the ministry who say we've been doing this for four years. It should therefore already give a quality label: the longer it has been done, the better it has been. I dare say I haven't gotten any better. All of this so that we do not have people in the debt of living, or that people and young people have the right to re-establish families, all of which are right and noble goals. And the fact that children shouldn't be in poverty. But more importantly, this moment of inclusion, this moment of social involvement. We're gonna give people another Christmas present now. We've made a gift for society in the form of electric bills, then other things will come. Some things get a little more expensive, others get a little more expensive. And those people who are talking, and the organisations representing them, the representative organisations, they have not reached it, and they are asking us, one by one, not through this general Committee on Legal Affairs: where is it now so urgent? We also asked today, in the implementation of the sitting, why we have two readings [this week] on such a sensitive issue. Why don't you take some time, talk to people and explain? No matter how complicated the laws we have made, we can still see that we have explained too little, because people say: but I have not heard anything! So, coming back to the first thing about not knowing the law does not reduce responsibility: but people want to be involved. What is worse, however, is just putting a sign on it: the Riigikogu pushed through such an important [draft] without a public debate. Growing children, raising children is of national importance to us, even in order to fill the preamble to our constitution and all other points. Kids are our future. We are taking some time off in other things: how far can a stork fly past the chimney or whether it is an "aquaculture animal" or an "aquaculture animal"? And then we process it. But in such an important matter, we want to make it like a club four or better by eight, because eight is the symbol of our eternal strength, perpetuum mobile. We want to push it through so that, in 2022, we have been declared such a law. I don't think it's smart. Stupid doesn't take part in competitions. But with this bill we could or should not, but should hold more public debates because there is truth in disputes. Maybe it's not, maybe it's a nurse. Therefore, the Isamaa Group proposes an interruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U75	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U76	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I recall the view of Ireen Kangro, representative of the NGO Child Welfare Association, who said at the meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs: the draft requires further analysis of the impact of the changes in the interests of the child. According to him, there is no answer to the question of whose interests the draft has been drafted and whether it is fair to the children entitled to maintenance. He added that it was not fair to take minimality as a basis for assessing the well-being of the child, but to meet all the needs of the child. Now, what do the Social Democrats think of this bill? It can be said that the draft makes the system more flexible in some ways and is somewhat good, but on the other hand there are also disadvantages. Maybe I'll give you an example of what some of them are. The basic amount of EUR 200 of maintenance is too low, given that the overall increase in prices has recently been very rapid due to the increase in energy prices and the price increase continues. The basic amount of maintenance should take this into account. It is also necessary to increase the basic amount in order to reduce the unequal treatment of children. The minimum maintenance rate of EUR 292, which was established before the draft came into force, will remain in force and will then be frozen. But it is important to ensure that the interests and needs of children do not suffer from changes in the system for calculating maintenance. According to the Socialists, the basic amount of maintenance should be EUR 250. Unfortunately, this amendment was not taken into account in the committee. I hope that the grand hall of the Riigikogu will support this. And what is still a concern: the age of a child is not used as a basis for determining maintenance. The average cost of child maintenance should depend on the age of the child. A child's needs-based minimum living study in 2020 pointed out that child maintenance costs are highest immediately after birth and in babyhood and fall to teenage age, i.e. 12 to 13. to the age when it will grow again. The age of a child is one of the most important factors that affects the cost of the child's maintenance. In different periods of life, people, as well as children, have different needs. Also, many costs vary widely across age groups due to the proportion of the cost borne by the older person. For example, schools are largely free of charge, while the place fee for kindergarten is an important cost for parents in many municipalities. But as far as food costs are concerned, as age grows, they increase considerably. Social Democrats consider it important to take age into account when determining minimum livelihoods. The amount of the minimum subsistence allowance should vary according to the age group the child belongs to. The Social Democrats believe that this change will essentially take into account the actual needs of the child. The new formula for determining the amount of maintenance, which according to the draft takes into account the most important circumstances relating to the life of the child and his or her parent, may not work in this way in practice, and the number of litigations may actually increase. The explanatory memorandum does not show how the new system has taken into account the actual costs actually incurred on each individual child and how the statutory parent's income as set out in the draft is reflected. In this way, the state imposes an additional burden of proof on a single parent living with the child by applying for an additional amount to the basic amount, i.e. a living corresponding to the actual needs of the child. Now, maybe I should come back to the proposal of the Alliance for Child Welfare that the draft needs to be further analysed in the light of the child's interests in the light of the effects of the changes. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] We don't have this bill today by formalizing it into law... Three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U77	Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U78	... somewhere fast. Consequently, the Social Democrats propose that the second reading of the draft be interrupted and the proposal for interruption has been forwarded to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U79	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. There are eight amendments to this draft and we will now examine them. The first amendment, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, has been fully taken into account by the commission. The second amendment, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, has been rejected by the commission and, in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, is not to be voted on. The third amendment, tabled by Ms Jufereva-Skuratovski, member of the Riigikogu, has been rejected by the commission. The fourth amendment, tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and taken fully into account. Amendment 5, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, taken into account in substance. The sixth amendment, tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, was fully taken into account. The seventh amendment, tabled by Ms Jufereva-Skuratovski, was taken into account in substance. And the eighth amendment, tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and taken fully into account. We have examined the amendments and, although the lead committee has proposed to conclude the second reading, we have received a proposal from the Isamaa Group and the Social Democratic Party Group to interrupt the second reading of draft 474 SE. We need to vote this through. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that we are discussing the draft law amending the family law and related amendments to other laws, 474 and the Group of the Isamaa, and the Group of the Social Democratic Party has proposed that this draft be interrupted by a second reading. I therefore put to the vote before you the proposal by the Group of the Fatherland Group and the Social Democratic Party to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the family law initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws 474. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U80	17 members of the Riigikogu supported the proposal, 57 against and 2 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. We have completed the second reading of Bill 474.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U81	Our third item on the agenda today is a presentation on the implementation of the "Basics of Criminal Policy until 2030" in 2021, and this report will be presented to us by Minister of Justice Maris Lauri. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U82	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable members of the Riigikogu! About a year ago, the Riigikogu adopted the "Basics of Criminal Policy until 2030," which aims to help create a safe and fair society. There is not much to be done in one year, but I dare to confirm that we have moved well towards the goal. For starters, background. Only 1% of the Estonian population thinks that crime is an important issue in our society. In the European Union, on average 9% of people feel the same way, in some countries 41%. We see that crime in Estonia has decreased year after year. The number of violent crimes and juvenile delinquency is falling. Studies confirm that Estonia's legal space is secure, independent and professional. That doesn't mean we don't have a problem. Yes, it is. But they must be dealt with, and it is good to base this on the fundamentals of criminal policy. These fundamentals, which were confirmed a year ago, set three main objectives, which I will discuss next. First objective: that the criminal justice system is effective, quick, independent, human-centred and victim-friendly. I'll start with the latest, maybe victim-friendliness. Law enforcement authorities and courts must make every effort not to add bitter tastes to the lives of those who have already been hurt, so that they can find help, support and understanding. There have been many positive changes in the victimry as a whole lately, and efforts to improve matters are continuing. Couple of examples. For example, the Ministry of Social Affairs is preparing a new Victim Assistance Act to solve the problem of access to psychological assistance and the payment of public compensation. Secondly, we have focused our special attention on Ida-Virumaa so that they can also spot and help the victim in the hospital when he gets there. To this end, a project has recently been launched in cooperation with the European Crime Victim Support Organisation. The road to improvement begins with recognition of the existence of a problem. This is followed by a search for help. That is why I consider the creation of a support line to those who want to abandon violence to be very positive. This support line has provided 1650 counselling during a year and a half, in 60% of cases repeatedly. So there is hope that, at least in part, we can reduce violence without applying the paragraphs. The fundamentals of criminal policy indicate that victim support services and the possibilities of restoring justice must be available both during and outside the proceedings. This year, a set of principles of restorative law, which are in fact already in use, was completed. At present, we are able to complete almost 1,000 criminal proceedings a year. That's twice as much as ten years ago. Of course, progress could be even greater and efforts will be made to achieve this. The principle of restorative law is the reconciliation between the parties concerned and the restoration of the original situation. This measure can be used primarily in the case of lighter violent crimes. Restoring the right is a process in which the parties are brought together on a voluntary basis to restore a sense of justice and compensate for damage. This is an appropriate way to resolve disputes between neighbours, school fights or online billing. This is a process where, with the help of mediators, they try to get the parties involved to listen and understand each other. This, of course, requires the good will and effort of all those involved. Sometimes it's a long way to go. As you can see, the restorative law and its methods are not only suitable for crime management. It seems to me that the will and skill of listening to each other and resolving conflicts would be needed in our wider society. You don't have to say badly, you can politely, you don't have to put your fists into action, you don't have to tease others, you don't have to tease others with the desire to bring forth an inappropriate, sometimes unrighteous response. Now from the proceeds of crime and its exploitation. If the offender's proceedings are terminated from a reasonable point of view, he often has to pay a fixed amount in public revenue or in the public interest. A few years ago, the possibility of payment in the public interest was not used. But now, for example, in Läänemaa, the defendant can pay money to the non-profit organisation with which the act has the closest connection. For example, a person who treats animals cruelly must pay money to the animal shelter. Such IT development will soon be completed to simplify [the solution] and this approach will extend to other areas of the prosecutor's office. The state prosecutor's office has also set an example: in a recent criminal case, the defendant had to pay the children's hospital a large amount of money to make up for what he did. Digitality is one of the attributes of an effective and victim-friendly offence procedure. Our aim is to get the majority of the criminal proceedings digitised by 2025. The digital procedure takes greater account of the needs of the victim, protects more the rights of the parties to the proceedings, and significantly facilitates the resolution of cross-border cases. There are many other positive aspects here, including faster procedures and clearer and well-observed processes. For all of this, very extensive development work is being carried out today. In a year's time, a solution to the digital file of criminal proceedings should be completed, allowing the paper file to be abandoned. Therefore, we should see the first unpapered criminal proceedings as early as 2023. The digitisation of criminal proceedings involves all parties involved, from the police and the prosecutor's office to the courts and prisons. Of course, in the end, a great deal depends on developers and IT. Now the independence of the judiciary, which some people exclude. The numbers tell the truth. A pan-European survey indicates that 57% of entrepreneurs and 64% of residents regard the Estonian judicial system as independent. Both of these numbers are higher than the European average. The International Rule of Law Index, which assesses the effectiveness, speed, impartiality and transparency of the criminal justice system, places Estonia among the so-called Green States. We're 15th in the world. Our problem is some length of procedures. Today, on average, one criminal procedure lasts just under a year, but the general procedure is on average 14 months long, stretching more before the court, shorter before the court. In fact, we are not in a very bad position with this in the European context. Our problem is the stretching of individual procedures of social importance. I assure you that this is one of the issues that I have been working on, and I intend to continue to do so. I'm counting on your support and assistance here. The procedure of the Riigikogu is a draft 367, after which it is possible to shorten procedures in a number of respects. The Ministry's work plan for the following year will focus on the problems of the general procedure, involving the parties involved and making it clear what needs to be changed and how it is best to do so. There are some other issues that have already started this year that need to be discussed and discussed in society. The punishment comes after it, it is a consequence, but it can be said that it is even more important to deal with prevention so that the crime does not come. Punishing addicts, be they drug or alcohol addiction, may not solve the problem if addiction is not addressed. This is also very much a health issue, but more generally an issue for society as a whole. It is good that the Legal Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu has taken up discussions on the possible decriminalisation of some minor crimes. Is that 200-euro limit right now? Seven years ago, this meant EUR 200 in the current currency of EUR 130. Criminal policy must go along with time, and here, too, we must never stick to the decisions we have made and to the limits. One sign of the effectiveness of the criminal justice system is the state's ability to deal with serious crimes. We have made great progress in curbing and investigating violent crime. And now it is time, of course, not to ignore what has been done, but to further develop, to engage in the complex crimes of the next group. The additional budgetary resources for next year will be devoted to the detection and processing of economic and cybercrime. This requires strengthening a number of specific competences, such as financial analysis, audits and IT skills. Corruption prevention and increased transparency of state action are very important to me. In February, an anti-corruption action plan was approved by the government, focusing on municipalities, public procurement, the environment, health and others. Since spring, high officials are making public their meetings with lobbyists. This will help shape political culture by setting an example for the rest of the public sector. To date, all ministries and most other government agencies make their meetings public. I hope that this practice will also be taken over by other public authorities, including municipalities. An analysis of the Anti-Corruption Act is underway and usually followed by proposals to amend the Act. I hope to come before you with this in the beginning of next year. The intention to develop a draft aimed at strengthening the Political Financing Monitoring Commission was recently underway in the coordination process. Some opinions are still on the way and I hope that we will soon be able to take a more concrete summary of ideas and ideas that will make political competition fairer and more equitable. We have also developed and coordinated with our partners a draft law on the protection of whistleblowers, which gives protection to those who report labour violations, whether it be environmental pollution or bribery. The presumption is that the infringement will be notified first to their employer, who will be able to react without undue noise and neglect. I would stress that the law protects those who report a violation of work, and that privacy is out of this ampoua. We will send this draft to the Riigikogu in the near future and hope for meaningful discussions. Now on another subject or purpose: that children and young people do not get caught up in the criminal justice system and that the offences of young people are reduced. There's actually quite a lot done. In the course of the reform of juvenile offenders implemented in 2018, work practices on the treatment of minors were changed and services expanded. Law enforcement now has a greater choice of responsibilities and leverage and can make decisions taking into account young people and their needs. Last year the number of crimes committed by minors fell for the first time by less than 1000 and the data indicate that the number of crimes committed by minors would continue to decline: in nine months this year [this figure] decreased by one fifth. The number of misdemeanours committed by minors has also decreased. While young people's infringements are still more frequently subject to financial penalties of 52% on average, this is significantly lower than in the pre-reform period when this ratio was around 80%. Today, the police increasingly impose different types of obligations on minors at the end of misdemeanour proceedings, such as leisure activities, mental health, including treatment of addiction problems, written discussions, reconciliation, repair of harm and more. This is a sign that a young person and his or her problem are being dealt with, rather than taking the easy way of resisting, or fines. Fewer and fewer minors get arrest sentences. In 2020, such minors were 23, 4 years earlier 43. There are also fewer minors in court and in prison, the last three. Of course there are shortcomings. Together with the police and young people, we are looking for solutions for how we can respond better and more effectively to infringements. Parents, child protection workers, in fact, must be involved in society as a whole. Children's and young people's misdemeanours often begin with inaction, which is why cooperation with education, culture, sport, local authorities and why not with environmental organisations and businesses is necessary. Now to the third goal. The third objective is to reduce the number of repeated criminal activity. This is a very large set of problems and it is difficult, time-consuming to solve. The seed sown one year may be five years from now, but maybe ten years from now. It is a fact that many of those who have been released from prison will be found guilty again in a few years' time, either necessarily in prison, but they often commit a new crime. Of those who sit until the end of their time and are released without any supervision, 43% are found guilty again. If different counselling and other support services are received, this percentage will be significantly lower. These numbers have not changed very much over the years and are also large elsewhere in the world. The reason why this is the case is that repeated crime has a very complex sequence of causes where both psychological and socio-economic factors play their role. The issues of mental health and addiction must be addressed in order to address the problem of reversibility. Today, 43% of people in prison are diagnosed with mental health problems and most of them are addictive. So if we want to reduce reversibility, we have to deal with addiction problems and mental health. Unfortunately, the resources in human form are scarce, and not just in prisons. Estonia still stands at the point where we have relatively many prisoners. A reduction in the number of prisoners cannot be an end in itself, but in order for this to happen in the long term, the reasons for getting into prison, for getting in the way of crime must be addressed. And in this sense, dealing with young people is key. In order to prevent those who have committed crime from entering the criminal path again, they must be provided with various services that enable them to re-existence, so that they can get rid of their old bad friends and habits. If we do not work to achieve this, we will not achieve the result. Efforts are certainly essential. The acts of sexual criminals must be very ugly. There are a few activities this year that should control their activities. A solution is being prepared to allow for more convenient control of the background of people working with children. And there will also be a draft that will encourage and encourage this control, so that this control will not be one-off but permanent. A bill has also reached the Riigikogu, raising the age limit for sexual self-determination from 14 to 16 years of age. I hope to introduce this to you next week in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. But the most important thing is that we pay attention to violence and that we respond to it. That doesn't mean we always have to get involved. But we must call for help, and we must not turn our eyes away. If violence is ignored, it will continue to act and be. If we look back, things aren't bad. But what to do is quite a lot. Thank you for your attention and I am ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U83	And they begin with Urve Tiidus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U84	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The objective of criminal policy here is very briefly summarised in your presentation: in 2030, in nine years' time, Estonia will have a secure and fair society, with few children and young people exposed to the criminal justice system that assists victims, addicts and mentally ill-treatment offenders receiving the necessary help, a penal system that reduces offences, together with alternative punishments, and, above all, serious violent crime is falling at the fastest rate in Europe. Of course, it is too idealistic and even a stranger to life to wish there was no crime at all. However, too often it is recognised that a number of crimes could have been committed, could have been prevented because the signs were in the air and the risks were known, but no one responded in time. Where do you, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, see the possibility of preventing crime even more so?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U85	Thank you. There are actually several places. One thing may be how I ended my speech: that we pay attention and let us know if things go wrong. Small violence can lead at one point to great violence. Another thing certainly is the addiction problems that we have to deal with, because most crimes and serious crimes are committed under the influence of addictive substances. And the third issue, which is also very important, is that we deal with young people so that young people do not get caught up in crime. It's very difficult to bend an adult person off the road, it's a difficult thing to do. And because of this, when we look at it in the long term, it is important that we do not create so-called aftergrowth or growth in the form of people who get in the way of crime. Maybe you'll have to deal with young people, kids. And I think it's the work of the whole community. The problem for young people is that if they have nothing to do, there is too much time to spare, then at one point the misfortune can lead to mischief and trouble to guilt and crime. So I think it's in all our interests to deal with young people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U86	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U87	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, how can we comment on the situation that is about to take place? On Wednesday, we will adopt a state budget with police cuts inside. For example, two elements that are going very clearly against the noble targets in today's case: a reduction in the number of regional police officers and a reduction in the handling of lighter offences. Two things that are clearly written in these cuts. You spoke in a preventive way, and I also tried to familiarise myself with this whole police and law enforcement issue, because it specifically affects people in my village, for example. What can be more reasonable than a reasonable number of district policemen who can deal with the community? In today's case, if we still have an awfully large area for every police officer in the region, we are actually working against what is on this table with our budgetary decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U88	Thank you. This issue is certainly more focused on the Minister of the Interior. He might be able to answer more precisely how to ensure the work of the district police. I will not interfere with the activities of another minister. I believe and hope that he has thought about this also because of his background and practical experience. What is undoubtedly important here is that these things are being dealt with, and perhaps those who are close to them, people who are best acquainted with the circumstances of a particular region and also with local people, are able to find the right solutions and the way quickly and quickly. As regards small procedures, small things, the discussion is ongoing in the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee. And, as far as I know, it's been a matter of many times. It's a question of shoplifting, small snatching, little speeding, and other things like that. Where is the limit that this is a misdemeanor, and where is the limit from which it is a criminal offence? It certainly needs to be debated and discussed in society, and it also needs to be discussed how to respond to one step or another. There have been perfectly anecdotic situations where, figuratively speaking, stealing a bottle of beer from three shops is a criminal offence, but stealing three bottles of beer from one store is not. So we need an understanding of what is a crime that is a misdemeanor, how to solve these things. And when these things happen, how do you react? And maybe think about what prevention is. Many of these minor crimes or abuses are committed in alcoholic or drug-drinking manner. If we deal with the problem at this point, we can actually deal with small-scale crime.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U89	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U90	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I understand that the fundamentals of this policy, the fundamentals of criminal policy, are still primarily focused on preventing the so-called risk behaviour of children and young people. But it seems to me that the very background is that these same children and young people are very often victims and victims. I bring here the case of the child murderer and the pedophile Vassili Ochkalenko, for example. The man has first been punished with the death penalty, then it was a life sentence, and now he walks around like a freeway prisoner in his home town in Haapsalu, putting young children at risk and making parents worry. I have, like, a question of how the fundamentals of criminal policy deal with this issue and ensure that such situations can no longer happen. How has it been addressed or attempted to avoid such a situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U91	Thank you. The subject of victims in the fundamentals of criminal policy is dealt with by the primary division of purpose. There has actually been a lot of progress in Estonia, but it can certainly be improved. As I pointed out in my speech, there is going to be a new draft law on victim assistance, but there will certainly be other activities, including training those involved, setting up the conditions for dealing with victims. Now, as for the specific case you have brought, unfortunately, you are presenting facts that are not true. It's a prisoner who's still in prison, but he's in an open prison, which means he can go to work and occasionally go to his home in Haapsalu. It's not true that he's free to walk around and no one's watching him. He's definitely under surveillance, he can't walk around freely, his range is limited. I also point out that the amendment to the law, which allows lifelong prisoners to be released from prison after 25 years, was adopted in 2018. That decision will surely be made by the court. We never know which court will decide. And therefore, it makes sense that we at least appreciate this possibility and [we mean] that if a person is released from prison, he would not get caught up in prison by himself. As I pointed out in my speech, a major problem, a very general big problem, is that people who are released from prison and who do not have support, who have not passed the so-called "exercise" period and have been in prison for a very long time, cannot survive when they get free. Therefore, long - term prisoners must also be dealt with [this goal] and brought to life gradually. To that end, there are social programmes which the person concerned has undergone. There is also an opportunity to be in an open prison where he can work and get used to living free. If this person is released, I will point out once again that we do not know if he is released, that this decision will be made by the court, then it is probably better for him to know how to live, how to cope. And it is certainly important that he is also under supervision after his release and has the necessary social support. The worst option is that after a long time in prison, a person is released and unable to cope with life, because then he is most likely to commit the next crime very soon.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U92	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U93	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The objective of criminal policy has been mentioned as an important target that serious violent crime will fall at the fastest rate in Europe. So this was the projection to 2030, which is a positive target in every way. In addition to the statistics you have brought here, the number of killings and murders with attempts has decreased dramatically. Now, if we look at, for example, the first objective, which is also a very nice thing, namely victim support and all the other things, what would you still highlight most of them as a means of reducing this serious violent crime? Some things you mentioned, but I'm grateful if you bring them up again.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U94	Thank you. Serious crimes are difficult in the sense that their roots are very complex and multifaceted, and they generally reach serious crimes when a person goes through a certain process. Occasionally or accidentally or negligently, serious crimes usually occur rarely. And we know what these causes are, especially in the case of violent crimes: alcohol consumption in large quantities, the fact that nobody reacts to minor acts of violence, for example, between the homes, and then gets a sense of impunity. And it's starting to amplify. So I think it is important to raise the awareness of the whole of society so that we pay attention and let us know if we notice violence, and it is the crimes of violence that we are talking about. I am certainly referring here to violence against young people and children. I have mentioned a few legislative initiatives and a 'technical' solution here, but it is also very important that we, as a society, know what is acceptable and what is not acceptable. Young people may not always understand, and especially children, including teenagers, may not always realize that an older person's approach is inappropriate and dangerous. The role of adults is to notice and intervene, to intervene. Their role is also to let young people know where to ask for help when they find themselves in situations that are not right. There are actually very different methods. We have different aid lines, different support groups, places where you can turn. Most importantly, if something is wrong, so that we do not turn our heads aside, so that we go to help, listen to people and try to find a solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U95	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U96	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I think that we do not have a debate at the moment that 'Basics of Criminal Policy until 2030' has been done with the aim of reducing the number of crimes. There is certainly no doubt about this. Looking now at this four-page overview of the implementation of this policy by 2021, we have so-called basic data. My question is as follows. What could be your estimate of the change in the number of crime by 2025 and 2030? So where are we?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U97	Thank you. I'm not telling you the numerical prognosis. I'm not that big of a specialist to put it on you. But personally, as a human being, I would very much like us to be able to bring these bad figures down to even half of the time because of me. Maybe it's too ambitious. But what if ambition is supposed to be big? It certainly also depends on which indicators we look at, which indicators we pay attention to. Some indicators may be simply submersible, by simple action. For some, it is not so easy; some require much longer effort. It's the same question of reciprocity, isn't it? Achieving a shift there is a very complex and very long-term process. So it will certainly be difficult to achieve results there; it will be difficult to achieve significant shifts quickly. But as I said in my speech, the shift in young people has been significant. I think it would be very nice if we could talk about only a few crimes being committed by young people by 2030. I'm afraid you can't take them to exactly zero, but it would be nice if there were really lonely ones. And if there are wrongdoings, they will be solved in a way that makes young people think about their actions so that they don't do these things again. Then, I think, for example, by 2040 or 2050, we will also fall far below the rate of relapse.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U98	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U99	Good manager! Good Minister of Justice! I am not going to ask what of these 19363s was the most remarkable crime there are, you could say that. But I'm asking you, if [this is] 19 murders by now, but last year was 50, you have some predictions of how many more of these Christmas murders might come? Or New Year's? Or is it going to stay so low?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U100	Thank you. I really don't do criminal prognosis. It would be great if the murder number didn't increase this year. I'm an optimist. As a realist, you don't have the guts to be sure, but you have to. So maybe it'll work, maybe it won't.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U101	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U102	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, Indeed, there is no doubt that our aim, also in the fundamentals of criminal policy, is to reduce both reversibility and [at all] crimes. But if we look at even this data, we can see that, to some extent, the tendency is quite the opposite. It is important that we also support the objectives that we have set out in our practical actions. But quite a number of indicators have really increased here: we are in a rather poor position for serious crimes and even for registered crimes. What can be done? We will adopt the state budget the day after tomorrow, where we have reduced the amount of money that goes to internal security. What should replace the sums that go to the police so that we do not realize in a year, two or three that the situation has gotten worse than it is now, and we are very far from the goals set?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U103	Thank you. Crime is very multifaceted and its dynamics certainly play a role in a wide variety of factors. Perhaps at this point it cannot be said what are the reasons for this year's indicators, well, more or less stationary or slight increases, which are nine months' [indicators]. There may be several of them. One is the general frustration of society, which may make people uncaring for others, causing irritability, including alcohol and drug consumption. If you're listening to radio news in the morning, I think there's always gonna be more people who get caught driving in some kind of drunk. So we have to deal with them, but it doesn't have an immediate effect. The second and I would say, the positive thing may be, in the case of certain crimes, that they are reported. I'm talking about certain violent crimes, domestic violence and the fact that they're not hiding anywhere. It will be announced and then it will be possible to respond to them, deal with them and punish those involved, if necessary, or use other methods of handling it by consulting, separating people or any other means. Surely these steps are also possible. This picture analysis of COVID crime is very complex, and you have to go in there, [to understand] why some or other things are moving. And certainly, when the figures for the year come together, a thorough review is also made and estimates are given as to why this is the case. What do we have to do? There has certainly been a lot of talk in the fundamentals, and I also spoke in my speech about what has been done and what is still being done. There are new initiatives here, but it is certainly important that the actions that have been started so that we can move on with them. So it's not like we did the project, it worked nicely, but it's going to stay on top of it. If we do certain rehabilitating activities with prisoners or misdemeanors or criminals who have been sentenced to parole, we must not exclude them, but we must continue to deal with them. There is a need for consistency, and then there will be a positive effect at some point.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U104	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U105	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Madam Minister! Here is a table entitled "Crime perception in the European Union." This shows that Estonia is in a very good position; only 1% of people now perceive crime as such a major social problem. It was very different in the early nineties, where that percentage was, I don't have exact statistics, but big. A very large part of the people sensed it as a problem. At the same time, this percentage is currently 41 in Sweden. Sweden was certainly a much safer country in the early 1990s than we were at that time. What's happened? What is the reason for our success, and why has Sweden experienced such a decline that a very large part of society, or 41%, has begun to perceive crime as a very serious problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U106	Perceived crime as a social problem is perhaps the most involved in crime that stands out from which much is said. Different types of street crime, organised crime, I'm referring to it. Even with the same statistics on the second page that we have very few organised crime, the latest news shows that we have managed to manage it quite properly. These are the things when crime is spoken of when events happen that get people's attention. Attention is usually given to things that affect people a lot, which are really visible. And it's perceived as a problem. We don't have explosions, we don't have burns like this, we don't have a rash, all right? This is probably what we have dealt with in these major problems of the 1990s. I'm sure we have other problems, and we'll get back to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U107	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U108	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I was moved to ask a question about what I just heard: that crime is fueled by alcohol and drugs. And I caught myself thinking that I wasn't the most qualified judge of this, but somehow the media and the movie world have created such an understanding that cannabis users are such peaceful pleasures, flegmatic turtles, which I don't think hurts mosquitoes very much. And at the same time, we have some other venoms that are hyperactive [absorbers]. Whether, to some extent, it is also meant in the ministry that if the Flegmatic people do not pose a threat to themselves or others, whether to some extent it would be possible to decriminalise or to [legalise] cannabis, for whatever purposes it is [not] used, it is a cure, medical [for use] or simply to have a life chill. Is that what you're supposed to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U109	Thank you. More severe drug users have been reported to be more relapsed. They do not get rid of their addiction so easily, and the crimes that are committed can at some point become more severe and complex. Drug crime and the drug problem are one that must actually be dealt with proactively. And drug crime has to be divided into two parts: one is addiction and one has to deal with addiction, the other is crime. If we only punish drug abuse for a crime but do not deal with the problem of addiction, then we are not really going to solve it. And the fact is, unfortunately, that the use of lighter drugs is becoming stronger. It's also about weed. In the United States, for example, it has been observed that the use of amphetamine has now started to increase in states where cannabis use has been released. So it's like a problem. Doctors have told us that cannabis use can in some cases trigger a person's otherwise controlled medical [risks], some mental disorder. But I'm sure we can discuss it. I think society needs a discussion on whether it is a crime to use drugs or to drink alcohol. This may not always be a crime, but it is an action that needs attention and needs restraint. We need to separate the addiction to consumption from the crime committed intoxicated. However, this is certainly one thing that we in society should be discussing and perhaps implementing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U110	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U111	Thank you. The pedophiles are walking around peacefully, but we're talking about drinking alcohol as a crime. I'm sure it's a crime for a drunk person to commit a crime, but to call alcohol a crime... I don't know, if I drink a glass of beer or wine, I don't know, I'll be a criminal. It's one of those comic moments I hit. The second is that you said we didn't have organized crime. I know that there are almost 20 criminal groups operating in Estonia. When we had a car accident at Laagna Road some time ago, where people died, we also found out what we're dealing with with national crime groups: racketeering, extortion, beating, etc. So we have organized crime. If the Justice Department doesn't report this, ask the police chief, maybe he'll have some time to do his job in addition to bullying the coffee shopkeepers. My question, however, concerns this Ochkalenko. Well, how is it possible that a person sentenced to death who has been replaced by a life sentence is walking around now and people are afraid that he might kill someone again?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U112	Thank you. As I explained, according to the current law, which was passed in 2018, a situation was created where lifelong prisoners can apply for their release after 25 years. If such a person is released at the court's discretion and, I stress, this decision is handed down by the court and, for example, it is very difficult for me or anyone else to say what judgment the court is making, but if such a person is released in a way that he has not passed social programs, that he is not accustomed to living in a modern society, 25 years away from today's society is certainly something that creates great problems for a person when he lands in modern society, then he simply cannot cope. So a person who can potentially get rid of has to be dealt with, and the process of dealing is that he is offered different services, practiced, given the opportunity to work and, in certain cases, to go home or to a loved one. And it's all going to be done in a controlled manner. It's not that a person can walk freely wherever he wants, and do what he wants. It's definitely under control, and if any problems are detected, they'll put him back in a closed prison. This activity will certainly be very attentive. Why this legislative amendment was made, you must ask the Minister at the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U113	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. We can now go to the negotiations. Speaking can be done by representatives of the political groups, with a speech from the remote control for 5 + 3 minutes or on the spot for two minutes. Marek Jürgenson is the first to sign up for the Centre Party. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U114	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! I would like to thank the Minister for his thorough presentation. And on behalf of the Centre Party Group, I would also like to pay attention to some of the facts. The document "Basics of Criminal Policy until 2030" states that nine years from now, there will be a secure and just society in Estonia, with few children and young people in contact with the system of criminal justice that is independent, effective, smart and helpful to victims. Addicts and mentally illegible offenders will receive the necessary help, there will be a penalty system for reducing offences, along with alternative sanctions, and serious violence will be reduced at the fastest rate in Europe. We are moving towards the above objectives, but the pace should be even faster. That's so the vision isn't just a beautiful slogan. And the statistics are controversial. On the one hand, the people of Estonia are least concerned about crime in the European Union, but on the other hand, we are still at the forefront of the proportion of killings, murders and detainees in Europe. I'll bring out some numbers. Last year there were 3.8 deaths and murders per 100,000 inhabitants and 168 inmates. You can't be satisfied with that. And 1 is too much. It can be pointed out that, like health, internal security and culture, the lack of money also plagues the criminal justice system. This problem needs to be looked at honestly and solutions found. One option is to replace project-based activities with durable solutions to ensure stability and continuity. The State should at least manage the functions that are important to itself on its own and on a permanent basis. With regard to additional funding, it is important to note that it should reach all the institutions in the legislative area. A successful criminal policy requires cooperation in different areas. It is not possible to offer treatment and counselling as community intervention to an addicted offenders when the health and social systems do not have the means to do so. As it is not possible to guarantee school security if the education system does not have the resources to finance evidence-based programmes against school bullying or to provide recreational and sports circles in the field of culture. With a view to the future, I would like to emphasise three priorities, in addition to funding, which should be given priority. It is prevention and personal communication with young people, dealing with dangerous repeat criminals and more efficient use of data. After all, we know that a bad course often begins with bullying or shoplifting. Early notice and quick action would help prevent the worst. Sadly, there are people among us who, despite the fulfillment of their sentence, should not roam among fellow humans. In the last ten years, the problem of dangerous criminals has not disappeared, so it is necessary to continue looking for solutions at the legislative level. Estonia should also make greater use of the image of a successful digital state in criminal proceedings. Just as certain countries increasingly use elements of hybrid war to stand up for their own interests, a large part of crime has moved to the Internet. This means that the state must have the data and be able to use it. Smartly acting in the cyberspace will make it possible to track criminals more quickly and effectively. The collection and storage of communications data must be secure and more flexible access for research institutions is necessary. At this point, I can assure you that positive solutions are expected on this issue very soon. One more minute, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U115	One minute more time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U116	Finally, I take this opportunity to note the recent events at a café in Tallinn. Trust in the Estonian police is very high because the police adhere to the legislation in force in their activities and have prioritised the creation of a sense of security in society. Attempts to undermine police efforts and to compare our good men and women with the Soviet organization are, in my opinion, inappropriate. During the coming Christmas, I wish everyone an understanding and a safe Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U117	Thank you very much. Next from the Fatherland, Urmas Reinsalu, please! Three minutes extra time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U118	Honourable Parliament! What is now about the implementation and implementation of developments in criminal policy: firstly, penal policy must bear the sense of justice of society, especially in the case of serious crimes against individuals that have shocked these societies the most, and at the highest, when it comes to the victim of children or, in fact, the assault on a person's life. The international day of violence against women was, and ministers, the bosses remembered, said so. On the same day, however, Estonia came to the public with the knowledge that the man who beat his wife to death was conditionally punished. Have we already reached a point in the logic of human life where the crime that has led to the loss of human life can be measured by a conditional sentence? I think this is the place to say in this Chamber: this criminal policy must not be pursued. The second question concerns the movement of the same paedophile, a paedophile who has been punished for life in an open prison, which means moving around there during the day in Haapsalu. The Minister referred to amendments to the law which entered into force in 2019. I recall when Parliament adopted it, what were the objectives. First, extending life imprisonment to repeat criminals, including repeated sexual crimes. Secondly, the condition that they must be understood as having real penalties must not be imposed by the court on parole. And third, if a person has served all his sentence, then post-punished behavioral control must be maintained for those predators. And indeed, since Parliament significantly extended the scope of life sentence to murderers and sexual criminals, it was to balance that the court could review the case and 25 years were there instead of 30. It fell. Now, if it is to be distorted and a more liberal penal policy for serious criminals, I am categorically opposed to this, particularly in the case of crimes which have fundamentally violated society's sense of justice. And now the question of whether it's the court's jurisdiction. No, it's not the court's jurisdiction. There is a enforcement plan to be approved by the Minister of Justice and the execution plan clearly states that the Minister of Justice, by signature, will approve and determine the rules under the execution plan for those who go to the opening prison who are in a closed prison. And secondly, the Minister has the authority to supervise the ministry. One paper, one A4 paper to be signed this evening, from a two-line [message] message, is enough to suggest that during the period of official supervision, for reasons of rationality, the Minister will change the paper to obtain a particular person in an open prison and that person will be sent to a closed prison. That's what I did in Simmi's case. There was a sheet of paper, and that's all we needed. Tomorrow morning, the cars will be on their way, and that question will be resolved. And I think it would make sense. Penalty enforcement is not a matter for an independent court. Organising the execution of the sentence is precisely the issue of executive power. The organisation of the prison service is not a so-called independent power taken separately. The second question, we did not hear [nothing] from the point of view of the victims. I think that plans have been left aside to ensure that the proceeds of criminals from the crime, the proceeds of the crime, must actually be given to victims, to victims to compensate for suffering in the wider sense through the Victim Support Fund. This initiative must be clearly implemented, and I think that it has also gone missing, somehow the hearing of victims' opinions, the hearing of the victim or, if the victim is no longer among us, the hearing of the victim's close opinions about the early release of the person, the criminal, what they think at the stage of the trial, whether the punishment requested by the prosecutor is reasonable, or what they think, in the case of an anti-personal crime, whether or not the settlement procedure could be applied. In our criminal policy, the keywords must be that, firstly, society's sense of justice in the case of crimes against individuals will be [satisfied, punishment will meet] expectations and this will create a sense of security; secondly, that the victim's position will be cost-effective; and, thirdly, that, of course, overall reduction in crime. And here, unfortunately, we did not hear about an important issue, which is a special spatial prevention. Spatial special prevention. What does that mean? This means that, in the case of persons who have committed foreign crimes, the principle must be, first, whether they are being expelled by the prosecutor's office as an additional penalty or, in the case of police persons who are released from prison, whether they are seeking to withdraw their residence permit in connection with their breach of Estonian law. This must be a general universal principle as a general rule. If these persons are no longer present on the territory of Estonia, these persons will also not be able, of course, to apply them to Estonian citizens, to commit crimes in Estonia. In other parts of the world, they are cared for and served by other countries with their repressive authorities. There are, of course, exceptions here, such as the case of Ustimenko. Ustimenko must sit in prison until his death because he is a mass murderer and, in the case of a mass murderer, there cannot even be a probabilistic possibility, a theoretical possibility that Russia will seek his release and may be released. Now the question of a circle of issues relating to the digitalisation of justice, which is linked to the socialisation of criminals, which is linked to the interruption of the re-relapse chain of criminal activity. I think that the Minister broadly touched upon perfectly reasonable views on these issues, the so-called socialising party, in order to reduce crime in the country. But there is nothing to say, criminal policy must have clear objectives. The objectives are, the general request is for society to be safer, for crime to be less, because, unfortunately, crime as a phenomenon or, say, extreme wrong or evil behaviour is associated with the nature of a person and we need to understand that there are general preventive national criminal policy objectives and special preventive objectives. And certainly one of the most important general preventive goals is society's revenge. It must also be a perfectly legitimate appropriate measure in the case of acts which have specifically endangered and undermined the sense of justice and the life or human dignity of society. Of course, in the case of crime, [criminal offences] must be distinguished, grouped [according to] danger and to the violation of society's sense of justice and to the legal benefits that one or the other crime has affected, but certainly special consideration must be given precisely to predators, that is to say, serious, serious criminal repeaters who have committed [deeds]. And on this point, I would like to say that criminal policy must serve the interests of people's sense of security and sense of justice in society, which are absolutely legitimate values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U119	Thank you. By the Estonian Conservative People's Party Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U120	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, A message came yesterday that a woman has been found killed in Pääsküla on the track, on the trail, on the ski trail. True, there was also a message very soon that two suspects had been apprehended. But with this message, it was also added that one can expect a culprit for the murder. 5 to 16 years of imprisonment. If we put [it] into money, our average monthly salary is multiplied by five over five years [payable], five-year income, then we will get a ridiculous price on human life. But this criminal, even if he's caught, convicted and got his five years, he's under the special supervision and custody of the Chancellor of Justice. He must have light, he must have air, he must have food, he must have amusements, he must have access, he must have holiday opportunities and he must have many more degenerate European privileges. But this dead man no longer has any privileges. He doesn't ask for them, either. Why am I saying this for a long time? Because the report we heard here actually slipped over it all. It slipped over the fact that we in Estonia did not have the rule of law for a long time, but had a politicised legal system. A politicalised legal system, starting with the authorities and ending with the courts. And this is reality. We can lie to ourselves no matter how much, that there is no one, and Estonia is the rule of law, but that is not true. That's not true! The Prime Minister has squealed several times from this very remote control: everyone has the right to go to court. Yes, everyone has the right to go to court. How much is a decent lawyer's hourly rate? How much are the state fees? How long can trials last? Yeah, everyone has the right to take on this burden and go out for good luck, for example, against the state. And finally be the fool who pays for all the legal expenses and no justice, let alone justice. There wasn't half a word about it in that report. Right maybe yet, but not justice at all. And it's very tragic, it's incredibly tragic. Let me give you an example of what I've brought from this remote control regarding another bill. A few weeks ago, we had news that somewhere in Central Estonia or in South Estonia, some sort of character terrorizes the people of the village. Beats, blackmails, breaks property. And they've turned to the police not once, not twice, not three times, and not one person, not two people have turned to the police. And what aren't they getting out of there? They don't get help from the police. The police are waving their hands. There's nothing we can do. Great! But we have a fresh example of how not only the police, but the whole country with its weight, the police's 50-headed gang, the Tax and Customs Board... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U121	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U122	... Tax and Customs Board, Health Board, the state urged the lessor to cancel the lease. Here we saw justice and justice in the current Estonian format. And today, the chief police officer says: if anyone is going to bully the country, then the state must assert itself. I don't know who bullied who in this case. Who bullied who, in this case?! The state is teasing one person. The state is breaking all the rules of procedure. Some kind of precept will be given. Before the precept expires, a fine will be imposed on the neck. Before the time for payment of the fine expires, a new injunction will be issued. Before this precept expires, a new fine will be imposed. You don't let a person into your company so you can get your personal belongings. What's that? Is this the rule of law? Minister, would you not intervene to ensure that justice and justice also exist in the Republic of Estonia? And then you tell us some beautiful fairy tales. I don't want to talk about organized crime at all. It is well hidden under the carpet in Estonia. It's so nicely hidden under the carpet, it's not like it isn't. Just like it isn't! But it really is. Actually, it is! In fact, we have criminal gangs involved in extortion, debt recovery by beating and many other things. I brought it up as a minister. Well, I'd say the police chiefs were very good at slipping out again: no, no, we have everything under control, we have our people inside, and we know exactly what's going on there. You might know what's going on in there, but the one with his teeth knocked down and his money taken away, he doesn't care if you know what's going on in there. This is not the rule of law. Don't come here and tell us fairy tales. It's a country that's become more and more of a no-brainer. Today in the National Defence Committee, the topic was why defence forces were sent to Poland without passing through the Riigikogu. Not that we have anything against it, on the contrary, we support it. But procedures must be followed. If we're gonna take some two people to Lebanon and we're gonna have to let it through here, sending 50 militias to our friendly country isn't a subject. Let's just send, get past everybody, get over everybody. Can't be such a douche bag! It is not the case, Reform Party, that with your own jackets you decide what needs to be done according to procedures and what does not need to be done according to procedures. It's not like that! And that is why our party and civil society have resisted. And we're going to fight even more because it has to stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U123	Thank you. However, as I said before, it is possible for each political group to make a single speech, so I cannot give the EKRE Group another word. It is not clear from the other political groups that there are more requests to speak. Would the Minister like another reception? No, I don't. Got it. [[They say something in the hall.]] It's not gonna help you. So in that case, we will conclude the negotiations, and we will also have a discussion on today's fourth item.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U124	We can move on to the fifth item, which is the inquiry submitted by Riigikogu member Jaak Valge regarding the non-opening of the Bachelor's curriculum in Information Science at Tallinn University, request number 92. Now please bring here Riigikogu remote from Jaak Valge.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U125	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Minister of Education and Science! Honourable attendance! We are really dealing with the question of this literally, not a priori criticism of the Ministry. We just don't understand why this has happened. And if that happens, then the causal relationship must actually be established, and if what happened is negative, then these causes must be eliminated and ensure that this does not happen in the future. But now I'm going to refresh the memory of those present, yes, with a slightly different story than this written question, but the purpose is the same: namely the description of this situation. Thus, on 15 November 2021, the Senate of Tallinn University decided not to open a Bachelor of Information Science curriculum in 2022, where librarians are also prepared. In doing so, Tallinn University is the only educational institution in Estonia that offers librarians a comprehensive level education. The study programme "Information society and social well-being" at the University of Tartu [allowed] at the Bachelor level focuses primarily on sociology, social work and social policy. I am not going to, there is no reason for the great pathos, but it should be said that the library network [represents] such a network of cultural groups throughout Estonia. The most important tasks of libraries are to ensure the availability and dissemination of written words in Estonian. Graduates of information science curricula have in fact not only been implemented in libraries, but also in archives, museums and other memory institutions, as well as in public and private sector organisations on all kinds of posts in the fields of document management, information management, information and knowledge management, etc. Alumni in this field are top specialists in both the public and private sectors. Katrin Saks, Vice Rector for Development of Tallinn University, has referred to the low level of operating support of universities in support of the decision and has confirmed that in the case of continued under-funding of higher education, universities are forced to take steps to reduce the availability of higher education on curricula that are important for Estonian society. I quote: "One thing is clear, to date, we can no longer teach free of charge from the Estonian language and all curricula pass critical analysis." Kaie Holm, Director of Tallinn Central Library, writes: "In assessing the needs of society in the view of libraries, the decision of the TLU Senate makes it a farsi of the university's own goal to be a leader in the smart way of life in Estonia and, above all, to make science-based decisions to better cope with society and the citizen. Anyone who cares about the well-being of Estonian people sees an increasing digital divide between different regions and social groups and a lack of information and media literacy at a level that already poses health and security risks. The current pandemic made it clear that, more than ever before, residents need help to cope with the digital world and the great and confused influx of information. Therefore, there is a need for a flexible modernisation of trained information professionals and taught subjects in line with societal trends. " End of quote. We asked three questions just before. I would also like to thank the Minister for coming so quickly to answer us. I have no reason to read these questions. I'm sure you can handle this on your own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U126	Please respond to the Minister of Education and Science of Liina Kersna.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U127	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Thank you so much for asking! I really thought it was important to come and discuss this with you as soon as possible. I would like to say, as an introduction, that the debate on this issue is certainly in the context where we need to talk about funding higher education. And I am very pleased that, on Thursday of this week, we will also be discussing the funding of higher education in the Riigikogu as an important national issue. As you rightly pointed out, these decisions are also linked to the financing of higher education. At least in the sector, there is a general perception that higher education lacks an amount of EUR 100 million in order to make [its funding] 1% of gross domestic product. Well, then, we'll discuss on Thursday the possibilities of getting more money for higher education. But I'll take your questions and try to answer as best I can. First of all: "Does and how do you estimate that the non-opening of the information science curriculum will affect the availability of librarians and other information specialists in Estonia in 2022? " First of all, I am about to say that the University of Tallinn is not responsible for this curriculum. Many years ago, universities, first and foremost, as a result of an agreement between themselves, have distributed responsibility for the different areas between universities and, in fact, given that we have too little money in higher education, there is a expectation that universities will focus in particular on teaching their areas of responsibility. For example, at the Estonian Academy of Arts and at the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre there are only 100% curricula that fall under their responsibility. The Tallinn University of Technology and the University of Tartu have more than 95% of the curricula in those areas for which they have taken responsibility in agreement with the state. The University of Tallinn has 73.1% curricula according to their area of responsibility. And so they justified their decision that, since this curriculum does not fall within their responsibility, they decided to skip a year. And this [decision] was not only about the Bachelor's curriculum in Information Science, but they made a similar decision about three other curricula, in addition to this curriculum, that they would not accept students every year. But at the same time, they opened five new curricula. So four closed down for one year, timed it, and in 2023 new students were taken by the current decision, but at the same time five new curricula opened. So since the area of responsibility for this field is the University of Tartu, the Ministry of Education and Research appreciates that the decision of Tallinn University does not significantly affect the availability of librarians and other information specialists in Estonia. Rector Tõnu Viik of Tallinn University has also admitted to national broadcasting that a very small proportion of today's graduates are going to work in libraries at all, and the big problem with this curriculum is that the number of quitters is very high. If you look at the data, there are one-fifth to half of the entrants in this curriculum. So this is a very large proportion. By the way, 37 students were admitted to a similar information management curriculum at the University of Tartu this year. The second question: "What is the state's need for training libraries and information professionals in Estonia? " We have an OSKA report on cultural and creative activities, which states that the work of graduates of information science in libraries is limited. The correction of the provision of training was not considered necessary in this report because it is a broad-based curriculum that allows for careers in various areas, as Mr White said in his introduction. However, those interested in the work of the library need to be directed towards this particular field of study, i.e. better career training. In view of the future, experts in the Oska report also found that some processes in large libraries are automated and smaller libraries are connected, which on the one hand reduces the need for librarians, but on the other hand the tasks of libraries have become wider. They have gained a variety of tasks, so the need for better skills for libraries professionals is greater. This report says that we should also provide further training so that people can learn to work in libraries. The third question: How does the Ministry of Education and Research intend to ensure the sustainability of the study of library and information professionals? " The curriculum of information science belongs to a group of journalism and information dissemination curricula, where the University of Tartu has the responsibility for conducting, developing and popularising studies in accordance with the administrative agreement concluded between the Ministry of Education and Research and the University. The University of Tartu has an information management curriculum at first level, where there are twice as many graduates as four to five times more than the information science curriculum of Tallinn University. For example, 2020/21. 38 [future] specialists were admitted to the University of Tartu in the academic year, 17 specialists were admitted to the University of Tallinn. Graduated from University of Tartu 51, Tallinn University 12. For Tallinn University, information management training is an offer of non-responsibility education. The university has the right and freedom to concentrate its studies in areas in which it is not obliged under an administrative contract to provide the training. I think that is why, first of all, this curriculum probably needs to be re-examined at Tallinn University, needs to be extended based on modern skills and needs. The number of graduates with a sophistication indicates that this curriculum does not work well enough. So I believe that even though it is not in the area of Tallinn University's responsibility, this curriculum will be developed, the spectrum will be expanded and then opened again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U128	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U129	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! One of the reasons for the closure of the information science curriculum is the low mobility level of students. It is incomprehensible why the level of learning should be assessed in the light of how many students go abroad. However, given that information science students need to reconcile learning with work and family life, in addition to the situation caused by COVID, is it rational to assess students on the basis of mobility and to require them to go abroad at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U130	Thank you for your question. I believe that the University of Tallinn did not look at this decision for just one year. For example, the number of interruptors has been very high for many years. So I don't think it's on the surface for one reason. And I also think that you are pointing out the right problem in this respect that it has been very difficult for students to conduct international studies in a year and a half. You can also see it in numbers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U131	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U132	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! In general, I and many of the people of Estonia are still concerned about the same loss of Estonian language in higher education. And if we now see that the Vice Rector for Study Katrin Saks of Tallinn University claims that the current amount of Estonian-language education can no longer be continued, right, and critical analysis is carried out in all areas. After all, this means that free education in Estonian is no longer available. And how will we go forward with this Estonian-language education in the future if the proportion of English-language learning is now increasing all the time? What will the university do in the future with Estonian-language learning, and how will the Ministry react to the increase in English-language learning? After all, we are always talking and you are saying that higher education in Estonian must remain and we must go on with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U133	Thank you very much for your question. Indeed, the figures show that the number of English - language curricula has increased. Above all, it has grown in doctoral studies, but also at master's level, less undergraduate level. This is one of the results of free higher education, because applying free higher education was a condition that you should be able to study free of charge on an Estonian-language curriculum, but you can ask for money for an English-language curriculum. And since there has really been a shortage of money in the field of higher education for years, the possibility that money can be asked for in English-language curricula has also been used to earn additional money. We look at this with concern at the Ministry of Education and Research, and that is why we have raised the issue of funding higher education. It is also my personal view that free Estonian-language higher education must remain for graduates, young people. The question is whether it is possible to include private money from repeat learners or from adult learners by [remunerating] or to expect a greater contribution from employers who send their employees to further training provided by universities. So, yes, we are concerned to see that the number of English-language curricula has increased. But I do not think that a specific curriculum will be made in English, otherwise they would probably not have students in that curriculum.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U134	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U135	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The Vice Rector for Development of Tallinn University has stated in the media that the percentage of students falling out of the curriculum is very high. He has said that in recent years only three or four students have graduated. Four undergraduate students are known to actually graduated in 2019, 12 in 2020 and 2021. True, 2021 the number of graduates was slightly lower, but this is partly justified by COVID. These people are mostly elderly and need to reconcile studies and family life. The average number of graduates has still been over eight, and in one year, as I know, the number of graduates has not been three, as Katrin Saks claims. Who's telling the truth, the minister or the media? I'd just like to find out a little bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U136	Minister or media? You quoted Katrin's German words. In general, what I know and what I can assure you is that more specialists have come from the University of Tartu than have come from Tallinn University. That's for sure. Maybe there's some kind of problem with the analysis of these data, I can't answer that question. But I don't think anyone deliberately lied.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U137	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U138	Thank you. Dear Minister, The data I've been given from the library is as follows. The area of responsibility is currently assigned to the University of Tartu, as you said, where you can study and teach information management at the first level of applied learning, but not at master's and doctoral studies. Maybe I'm wrong. The explanation of Sigrid Vaher, the Higher Education Advisor of the Ministry of Education and Research, has one principle in allocating responsibilities that the university offers training at all three levels in the respective group. The study group usually includes several specialized or curriculum groups. I mean, if there is one degree of applied higher education in one field of study, all higher grades in another specialization group, for example in journalism at academic levels, the area of responsibility can be awarded to this higher education institution, which is because there is no Bachelor and Master's degree in Information Management. There were or all three stages at Tallinn University. Why is that? In fact, the University of Tartu does not have all these levels. Or am I wrong? Overwhelm it!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U139	Thank you. We are now talking about the one-year suspension of the Bachelor's curriculum at Tallinn University. We're not talking about losing this curriculum. The Senate of Tallinn University decided that they would suspend the Bachelor's degree programme and the three other curricula for one year. We are not talking about ending or stopping other levels of education here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U140	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U141	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Rector Tõnu Viik has claimed that a major problem is the high dropout rate of students in the Bachelor's degree programme in Information Sciences in the first year of study. This is significantly higher than the university and national average. However, cycle students in both Bachelor and Master's programs have exclusively employed people, who have been particularly affected by the tension caused by COVID-19, the need to reconcile their studies and family life with home office work and support for children in distance studies. Therefore, different methods must be introduced to prevent loss, the application of which can be decided at the level of the rectorate. Does the Ministry know what methods the Rector has applied?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U142	Thank you. The COVID crisis has certainly also had a significant impact on student life and the organisation of university studies. However, we know that adult people can manage themselves better than, for example, first or fourth graders. Universities have also said that they have not seen as drastic consequences of the application of distance learning in universities as they have been in general education schools. It also makes sense, because really, there mostly grown-up people study there. But that doesn't mean it's easier for them to learn distance. Yes, it must be taken into account that there are a lot of people already in work in higher education, 70% of students work for us. It was certainly more difficult for distance learning to focus on teaching, given that there were many other obligations, especially for women. So it certainly had its consequences in universities, but I believe that they were significantly smaller than in general education schools. I am not exactly aware of the measures taken by the University of Tallinn, but I know that their teaching counseling worked very well and they also had psychologists who supported the students.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U143	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U144	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! You originally said, when you answered, that this was not such an attractive area in the case of libraries. I apologize in advance, maybe my knowledge isn't the most recent, but my understanding is that people who graduated from the library have become archivists. And today, all companies and institutions have an obligation to archive, or overnight, maybe someone thinks that a narrow, dry, specific occupation has become a very profitable occupation. This statement, or the answer to it, that it is not as if you are closer to the government, whether the obligation to archive as such quietly disappears, or why this office has no perspective?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U145	Thank you. First of all, I didn't say it wasn't popular. I said that it would stop very little, that one fifth to half would cancel, and it would not be a one-year-old, but a number of years. It gives the university a signal, and the university needs to look at such data, that something is wrong with this curriculum. Why do these people, who have come out of goodwill and interest in learning this specialty, not interrupt their studies? And as the University of Tallinn has said, they analyze and update this curriculum. Since archiving really is such a topical issue, I believe that this curriculum can also be modernised in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U146	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U147	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Secretary! Universities behave like profit-making companies, and that should not be the case. As far as you know, is there plans to terminate or suspend any English-language curriculum at Tallinn University? And does not the suspension or exclusion of the Estonian-language curriculum seem, even temporarily, to be blackmailed by the University of Tallinn? It's emotional.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U148	Thank you. In my opinion, it is very good in itself that the rectors of universities also point out to the public that funding for higher education is an important issue and that more money is needed in this area. I wouldn't call it blackmail. Rather, my expectation for universities is that universities focus primarily on their areas of responsibility. And if you look at the numbers, the University of Tallinn really has a lot of work to do in this area. Compared to the Tallinn University of Technology and the University of Tartu, for example, their curricula correspond to their area of responsibility to a lesser extent. But as they said, they analyze their curricula and try to focus more on those specialties that are in their area of responsibility. I haven't heard of opening or closing English-language curricula, I don't have such an overview. If you do a written question to the Rector of Tallinn University, he will certainly answer you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U149	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U150	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, We have discussed the impact of COVID and the drop from [university] and what else. However, is this university's decision not rather made of such a pragmatic approach? Looking at the financing of our higher education and seeing that it will not increase in 2022, perhaps the view is that we are saving costs. Perhaps next year will be the decision that this specialty will end at the University of Tallinn. Correct me or disprove my statement that the issue of funding for higher education is not at stake here either.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U151	Thank you. This is exactly what I expect from the Fatherland of rationality. I think you might want to judge other people's decisions through rationality, not through the prism of emotionality. Of course, this decision was linked to the issue of funding for higher education, and they did not do it in any way. They said that yes, in higher education and also in Tallinn University, they have little money and that they need to make choices in order to give students the highest quality of education they can offer. And they have to make choices according to what is their responsibility and what is not their responsibility. In this sense, they really behaved very rationally and it is difficult to blame them in these circumstances, because universities should focus primarily on those areas where they have assumed responsibility towards the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U152	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U153	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. Recently, there was an interesting conversation with the rectors: the academician of the University of Tartu with Asser, Tõnu Viik was there and others were there. We were talking about this $100 million debt to higher education institutions. 100 million! We have recently proposed an improvement of 20 million in order to reduce this problem. Ladies and gentlemen of the Reform Party and the Centre Party sent this to the garbage can. Tõnu Viik in this conversation said straight out that it might be that physics and mathematics teachers at school are no longer Estonians, but somewhere else. And not enough of that! Rector Viik also spoke about this crime, which may be that people who are not Estonians will also be doing so-called research work in the Estonian language. And that's why I'm asking why you starve high schools, including the University of Tallinn. Why didn't you even find that 20 million?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U154	Thank you for your question. How many years were you in the coalition? More than one year. And it must be acknowledged that one year, in fact, higher education institutions received an operating grant increase of 5%, which was EUR 8 million. Very well done! At the same time, teachers' salaries went to EUR 0 and higher education received EUR 8 [million]. It was a question of choice. And congratulations to you on the fact that higher education received additional funding for at least one year. You couldn't in the other years. Next year's higher education institutions will receive EUR 5 million more than before, and we did not receive any additional funding for this, but we reviewed once again, and we set priorities again so that universities could raise the salaries of their teaching staff. To this end, we have allocated EUR 5 million to them precisely with the aim of raising the salaries of teachers with lower salaries. I have seen the decisions of the University of Tartu that they will raise salaries next year, and these increases are faster than the increase in teacher's salary. There was, in most cases, an increase of 10 to 12% in wages. I'm not saying it's enough, but in any case, the money was raised. As far as teachers are concerned, tomorrow I will present to the Committee on Culture an action plan for teacher follow-up. And today we have already made a decision and we are about to sign a contract with both Tallinn and the University of Tartu that we will allocate 1.5 million euros to increase the number of teachers' study places. We also intend to increase the number of teaching places for science and science teachers. Half a million of this amount will go to [future] teachers of children in other languages, both in early childhood education and in general education. So we're doing teacher training separately. This is very important, and I do not just believe, but I also act to ensure that our classes retain an Estonian-language physics teacher.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U155	Thank you. No further questions. Now we can go to the negotiations, the negotiations will be open to the speakers or representatives of the interviewers and, after that, all members of the Riigikogu. First of all, Jaak White has signed up. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U156	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister for Education and Science, Honourable attendance! I would like to thank the Minister for these thorough answers, but I must admit that we are going to have to talk about each other. I dare to sum up this subject from two points of view. First of all, the need for Estonian society. There are, as we know, over 2,000 librarians in Estonia, most of whom are about to retire. According to Janne Andresoo, Director-General of the National Library of Estonia, the cessation of training for employees in secondary growth hinders the development of library services in a situation where social trends, both in Estonia and in the rest of the world, make libraries more and more important, and I stress this, even at the lowest level, are expected to have higher education. Okay. It is true that, as you said, today's Bachelor of Information Science graduates are not going to work in the library. True, as Tõnu Viik confirmed. And I suppose the information science curriculum offered by TLU really needs to be updated. However, closure or suspension of admission at first level is not conducive to renewal. On the contrary, it also paves the way for the rest of the steps to fade away. These things can't be connected. Secondly, this previous aspect is linked to, and perhaps sometimes overlaps, cultural or, if you like, national cultural aspects. Janne Andresoo stresses that the suspension of admission hinders the viable and sustainable development of Estonian folk culture and cultural heritage in Estonia. Maarja Vaino recalls: "If, at the time of the establishment of the National University, the noble goal of bringing our culture to a state of ultimate high culture, with its scientific language and thinking, now seems to be the main question of how to bring more foreign students here. " In recent years, these decisions have lost more and more master's and doctoral studies in Estonian, and more and more focussed on attracting foreign students to our universities and designing them so that they can participate in free higher education. All right, let's go. Today we have repeatedly referred to the Vice Rector for Development of Tallinn University Katrin in Germany, who claimed that the current amount of free education in Estonian can no longer be done and all curricula pass critical analysis. I would like to emphasise again here: it is the Estonian language that will no longer be able to teach free of charge. I do not know, of course, whether it is this study in Estonian, that is to say, or to put library and information professionals at risk, that is the method of pressuring the state or, at the very least, drawing attention to the fact that the funding of the university is increased, but in any case it is very worrying. It is by increasing the number of foreign students studying in English that the university will tackle its budgetary problems. Yes, this may indeed alleviates the budgetary problems of universities, but I would stress, even if foreign students pay tuition fees, the tuition fee they pay does not cover the tuition costs that the taxpayer makes when financing a university study place. And after graduation, only part of Estonia remains permanent residents, somewhere less than half of foreign students. What is the main reason? They don't speak Estonian. They don't speak Estonian! If the state now finances universities according to this model, which favours action that is detrimental to society, what do we call it? We call it, we don't know, absurd or grotesque. And indeed, the future of higher education comes to us on Thursday. But I dare say in advance if the minister listened once that this is not just a question of higher education reform, that is to say, a reform of the whole big system, which will inevitably take a lot of time. In fact, these changes, Madam Minister, which would save Estonian-language curricula, could be made immediately in the new management contract for 2022- 2024 or, please, very much, in the annexes to the amendment of the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U157	Thank you. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U158	Thank you, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! We are so used to link the word "information" to technology that we may not understand the difference in information science. Any collection, analysis, making available of information uses modern information technology, but technology without information and information content is simply hardware and software. We have highly valued and highly remunerated skills in dealing with information technology, but the real resource is still, above all, the information, information and knowledge to which technology allows access. And it is information specialists and librarians who are currently concerned about further training. Of course, young people can choose to study the same specialty in their neighbors. In Finland, for example, information science is taught in eight universities, including three universities and five universities of applied sciences. In the European Union, academic studies in information science and libraries are not limited to Cyprus and Liechtenstein. If the people there have the opportunity to study in Greece, Germany or Switzerland, studying in Finnish higher education institutions may not provide us with the necessary secondary growth of librarians and information specialists in Estonia from the point of view of Estonian language and culture. In this case, questions arise not only about the sustainability of Estonian language and culture, but also about democracy in general. National libraries are the most democratic institution in society. The question arises as to whether the library is needed anymore. The results of the 2017 survey on cultural participation carried out by Statistics Estonia show that visits to libraries will fall as age increases. More young people, 85% of students and students go to libraries, meaning they don't google all the time or find what they need. A survey of museums and libraries and non-visitors conducted by Emor in 2018 shows that in the last 12 months half of Estonian residents had visited Estonian libraries or used their e-services. The library has long since stopped being shelves and books, and the digital library is also a library. Under the conditions of COVID, it is public libraries that have used innovative services to continue serving their readers, because obviously reading to people under such conditions is a great support. A special journal of librarians tells us how some readers were hung with a bag on a home garden. The Tallinn Central Library sent a total of 1170 packages of books to parcel terminals during emergency situations. Tallinn Central Library started offering e-service "Let's read out!"in which children were read or read to librarians by phone or Skype. The purpose of the service was to lend a helping hand to parents who remained at the home office and to children in need of attention. Good fellows! The Ministry of Culture has declared 2022 the topic year of libraries. Technological developments have brought new e-services, audio books, library systems, digital archives and electronic catalogues to libraries. The use of services, including guidance for users of virtual services, requires employees to have digital and media literacy. User guidance and advice requires librarians to know and use all e-government services. National libraries are often also part of the local cultural centre, organising various cultural events, exhibitions and educational activities. Many libraries have different operating rooms for children and young people. Land libraries can also play a role as a social centre, for example, librarians guide users when using different e-services. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U159	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U160	The need for individual advice, direct communication, continuity of language and culture has increased. Integration issues are being added. And as mentioned earlier, most librarians, or 90%, have higher education and half of other librarians have applied or academic higher education. And now the question is, should this level be maintained? According to the OSA study report, employers in other areas have also stressed the knowledge and skills of information management as an important developmental need, including the effectiveness of [is mentioned] in the search for information, the ability to make the source-critically the right choice from the available information. This means that the profession is essential in modern society. Currently, the area of responsibility is assigned to the University of Tartu, where you can study and teach information management at the first level of applied learning, but not at master's and doctoral studies. Tallinn University has all three levels today. And there is nothing else here if the parties should find a solution so that the teaching of this specialty in Estonia will not end. As we know, if, for example, the university does not offer a single specialty for two years, the teaching of this specialty will be discontinued. The Ministry of Culture and Education must put their backs together here and find financial means to continue teaching this worthy profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U161	Thank you very much. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U162	Thank you, good vice chairman. Dear coworkers and good young people who will choose a profession, a profession! I'm quite liberal about it, I can't imagine that an 18-year-old person should associate himself with his own later invitation to higher education. But if someone has that ringing in their heart in a young generation, they will. As far as my simple, uneducated notion is, the university broadens your mind and understands things far better than others. Young people, we have had a number of interesting specialties that we, as a country and as companies offering higher education or as higher education institutions, have not been able to make attractive for you. First of all, we are permanently short of 5,000 IT specialists. And the ability to release them is theoretically 100 a year, but a good 60 of them will be ripped right to work. That could be a point. The second point was that when I saw a thing that was still uglier than our last item on the agenda, the foundations of politics. It was then that you came to IT College. It's just, I don't know, there could be a big pile of money in there to knock Hercules out with the money you can make. And I think that young people would come, that advertising would have a much better effect on young people. But there was so much information done that you could come over there. Looking at it, even a fly would have fallen asleep on the flight. This is not how we sell future areas for young people. The second area of the future, however, is what we talked about here today. The twists of my young life still led me to the fact that the students could measure up to drinking beer and something else. And many said that we have one such specialty of drink lovers at Tallinn University, it's librarianism. In case you're still a full-blown fool, you're going to be ex-matriculated, before all the bells are ringing, let yourself be transferred to the library. Today, many of these benevolent, friendly and specialized drinkers have become very successful people because they are archivists. While we were in so many administrations, we had an archive duty over and over again, and then an archivist came and we gave him the door codes and stuff. We didn't even know what he was doing there, how much he wrote down. And it was a long, perpetuating process and prices were such that... But the facility did. It's possible he went there and just played Tetris, maybe he was doing some haltura, maybe he did some translation work or something else, just looked at the mess that was there, put the search words, and everything was nicely put in the files. But we just didn't have the so-called knowledge. We know that the processing of information is constantly becoming more important and valuable, and this specialty has actually become a gold pit. But if we do it in such an archaic way... I have nothing against the library, but from the library we have at least been able to form the opinion here in Tallinn that this is an extremely dry place. In the small places I've been to, I think the library is a local social life [centre]. The fact that the librarian is starting to come up with this information makes me want to come back here for hours. A librarian is usually the oldest woman in the village who remembers how everything was from the beginning of time, and with factual accuracy, dates. And he can show you these papers. Maybe then, the job is important. If the university is unable to promote this field of study or chair, then maybe it should be tested, maybe another school can give it a reputational design and something else. Because the need for archivists is growing, and the library, as such, is still waiting for us to have the library law here in the Riigikogu, is the luggage of our knowledge. Eight o'clock, but this profession and this specialty have to stay! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U163	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U164	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, At first, there was no plan to come to this point, but listening to the statements and questions of a good colleague, Heljo Pikhof, as well as the honourable minister, unfortunately this decision came. The library is certainly an indispensable foundation stone of Estonian culture and librarians, all who are involved in libraries in the broadest sense being part of this foundation stone and our culture. But now, as I said once, the speeches made by a good colleague and the honourable minister are summarised. Indeed, the Minister rightly argued that there must be practicality. It's hard to argue with that. Higher education is also an area where we need to think pragmatically, be effective, and there is nothing extraordinary or strange about it. But if we now really read the Vice Rector for Development of Tallinn University Katrin in Germany, he also points out that the head of the Council of Rectors has pointed out that in the case of continued under-funding for higher education, universities are forced to take steps that reduce the availability of higher education on curricula that are important for Estonian society. And a good colleague, Heljo Pikhof, pointed out that the University of Tartu, which is the leader of this field, lacks master's and doctoral studies. That's how we've come to a busted trough. On the one hand, we say that we are awfully practical, optimizing, but on the other hand, the full cycle of this study is not guaranteed from undergraduate studies to doctoral studies. And that is a serious problem, it is actually a substantive problem today. On Thursday, we will discuss funding for higher education. On Wednesday, we accept the state budget. We will probably adopt him, and we will probably also vote on the proposal to add EUR 20 million to the funding of higher education. But that's where these problems really come up. This is, of course, only one part of higher education, but a very important part that we are currently dissecting, and this is a matter of concern. However, we did not receive an answer to that today. Well, I don't know if we're gonna get on Thursday, I'm not an optimist, but that's why we're bringing this subject to the table at all. At one point we will not be able to ensure that the whole area is taught from the beginning to the end, and this must certainly be opposed. This is another aspect when we are talking about higher education, also about the reduction of teaching in Estonian and the topic of teachers' salaries. Now we have reached the point where, at one point, we will not open a bachelor's degree today, tomorrow we will not have master's and doctoral studies guaranteed, and the day after tomorrow we will end everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U165	Thank you very much. I do not see any more requests to speak, but the Minister would also like to respond. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U166	Thank you for raising this issue. I think we're all going out of this hall smarter when we came into this hall. And I promise you that the question of whether the University of Tartu does not guarantee master's and doctoral studies in this curriculum, I will find out. It was not appropriate to go out of the room during your speeches, but I will certainly find out and report in writing to the Social Democratic Party and the three political groups that are currently represented here. I'll find out, and I'll let you know, and I'll let you know how the universities justify it. But I want to stress that we expect universities to focus on their responsibilities first and foremost when we have little resources. But then, of course, in these areas of responsibility, universities have the responsibility to ensure high-quality education and also to popularise this speciality. That's what we expect of them. And indeed, we are currently in the process of negotiating administrative contracts and that education in Estonian is available, certainly also concerning administrative contracts. So thank you for the discussion, and I promise you more specific material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U167	We have dealt with this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U168	We can go to the last item on the agenda today. This is the inquiry submitted by members of the Riigikogu Helir-Valdor Seeder, Raivo Tamme, Üllar Saaremäe, Heiki Hepner and Tarmo Kruusimäe concerning the procurement of rapid tests by the Ministry of Education and Research. Request number 93. Üllar Saaremäe takes the floor on behalf of the heirs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U169	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister for Education and Science, Indeed, our inquiry concerns the procurement of rapid tests. In particular, the purchase of rapid tests by Selfdiagnostics OÜ for general education schools approved by you has been questioned for an amount of EUR 5132000. Negotiated public procurement without prior publication was opaque, and its honesty has been questioned by various companies and the press. Various media publications have pointed out that the Ministry unduly preferred one company in this situation. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The winner was Medesto Logistics OÜ, which delivers 2078947 fast tests for this amount, which gives a single test price of 1.14 euros. This amount per test is estimated to be more than twice the cost of a contract with Selfdiagnostics OÜ. Jaak Aab, Minister of Public Administration, has also pointed out problems related to the activities of the Ministry of Education and Research, who has argued that according to established case-law of the Court of Justice, the contracting authority can only use negotiated procedures without prior publication of a contract notice in exceptional cases. At the same time, it must be considered each time whether all the conditions for using this type of procedure have been met, despite an ongoing pandemic. An unforeseen event is not the only factor that must occur in order to use such an exceptional procedure for the organisation of public procurement. Public procurement aims to ensure the sustainable use of taxpayers' funds, equal treatment of individuals and effective exploitation of competition. The Ministry of Education and Research has twice ignored these important principles within one month. In this regard, the company's happy Fatherland ambassadors have four questions for you, which I will not read out in terms of time savings, but will wait for your answers. Yours truly! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U170	Please now reply to the Minister of Education and Science of Liina Kersna.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U171	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good heirs! Thank you also for asking me this question, and I also wanted to come to you as soon as possible, because the subject is topical and very rapidly evolving, so I have something to say to you. Firstly, as an introduction: I absolutely understand, I understand that the form of negotiated procedure without prior publication of a contract notice is an exceptional case. These conditions shall be exceptional. I've talked a lot about it, but I'm sure I'll tell you again, I'm prepared to repeat that we had three days to implement this decision: one working day and two rest days, Saturday and Sunday. The government made a decision on 28 October, and we made a deal at the same time. These tests needed to be transported to schools by 1 November when the school break ended. So, in this situation, we quite clearly assessed that this was an extraordinary and urgent issue that we tried to resolve within the limits of the possibilities provided by law. Whether this decision was correct, whether we interpreted the law correctly in this situation, is analysed by both the National Audit Office and the Ministry of Finance, and I am very much looking forward to the results of their analysis. I understand we can get a ticket for this, but let's see what they say. Today, I can assure you that we acted within the limits of the law and with the aim of enabling schools to be as safe as possible after school holidays. But now your questions and your answers. I do not know if the honourable members of the Riigikogu allow, because these questions are very long, I really do not read them in terms of saving time. You also refer to sources in them, and so are these very detailed questions. If you nod, that's what I'll do. Thank you. The first question concerns whether we consulted the Ministry of Finance and the National Audit Office prior to the first and second procurements. The answer is yes, we consulted. Both the Ministry of Finance and the National Audit Office were at the Government's desk in these decisions and in this sense. And when we made a decision in the government on Thursday, where there was also a financial separation from the government reserve of EUR 7.5 million for the Ministry of Education and Research, both the Ministry of Finance and the National Audit Office pointed out that this was very risky. And I realized it's risky, but I hope you also understand that in three days we didn't have the opportunity to use the usual procurement procedures. Really, we needed these tests to be in place by 1 November. Before the first unnegotiated purchase, the officials of our house on the phone consulted both the National Audit Office and the Ministry of Finance. We already had time to prepare for the second procurement. Then the Ministry of Finance was consulted both by letter and at the video meeting, and my officials received, in the sense that we did not have the opportunity to use any other provision in the second procurement, but then we had time to send an invitation to negotiations to 17 companies we knew they were carrying out rapid tests. 12 companies responded to this invitation and six of them were negotiated, the results of these negotiations you have already announced nicely. The second question concerns the modification of the deadline for the submission of documents for the second procurement. Was it because Selfdiagnostics had supply difficulties? No, Selfdiagnostics certainly did not have any supply difficulties; Selfdiagnostics supplied us with tests of the extent that the contract envisaged. But what changed? Change in testing tactics in schools. We went from three tests to two tests. And secondly, we received fresh data from the Health Insurance Fund on the vaccination of students and teachers, which also reduced the burden of using the tests. That is why the officials saw that these existing tests would be longer, and we met the operators so that they had a longer time to bid for us. That's when the time for submitting documents was extended by a few days. So we tried to meet the companies, because they had to act again in a very short notice. So where do I have the third question? Yeah, right here. The third question concerns the payment of EUR 750 to my advisor, Mr Kadastik. Was this work quality enough to pay him a bonus? First of all, we will immediately make it clear that this was not a bonus, it was an additional premium, and the extra is paid for the extra work. Mario Kadastik, a doctorate physicist, is part-time my research advisor, and during the preparation of this test, he worked significantly more than half-time. That is why I proposed that I be able to sleep with [a little] calmer heart at night, along with other worries, so that a person [had] part-time worked very much overtime. Indeed, on my proposal, he was granted this premium. I very much appreciate Mario Kadastik's contribution as a scientific advisor, in fact he has contributed very much to the fact that tests in schools exist. Of course, it must be said that he was not alone the person who organised these procurements. We still have a team at the Ministry, there's a legal department, people who do more day-to-day procurement. So it was definitely a team bet, too. But Mario also contributed a great deal; he was also an evaluator in the second procurement committee. Question four. This is about rapid testing and the fact that it is alleged that there has been a proposal in earlier times to use rapid testing in schools. Reference is made to the recommendations of the Scientific Advisory Board of 2 March to use rapid tests in schools. Also, on 18 March, reference is made to the statement by the Deputy Chancellor of HTM, Pärt-Eo Rannap, that EUR 850000 will be allocated to local authorities for the purchase of rapid tests. The point of the question is how the acquisition of rapid tests could come unexpectedly and which incompetence is demonstrated by the use of such a form of procedure, the Ministry of Social Affairs or the Ministry of Education and Research. I have a lot to say here. Luckily, it's the last question, and there's six minutes left. Firstly, I took out the recommendation of the scientific council to the government on 2 March, because I did not remember that the scientific council had recommended mass testing in schools. And I can see that there really is no.6 recommendation to get out of here! The rapid testing of antigens is carried out in schools that are interested in it. That's exactly what Selfdiagnostics did. This recommendation was made in March and Selfdiagnostics in spring did his pilot at the English College, experimented with rapid testing at school. What we did, what took EUR 850000, was a quick test of close contacts in schools negotiated with the scientific council. And that's the money we got with the extra budget to supply schools with rapid tests, and that's the money we distributed to local governments who then bought high-speed tests for schools. We also conducted a survey among them and, in fact, these results were very uneven. Very different tests were purchased, very different quality tests were purchased and, by the way, nose and throat rapid tests were also purchased, which we certainly did not want. We always stressed that these must be child-friendly rapid tests. In any case, this picture was very different, because all the municipalities solved the situation as they knew best at the moment. And then Selfdiagnostics actually wrote to the Ministry of Social Affairs and also to the Health Board in the first half of October and announced that their tests had been tested in schools, and called on the country to use more rapid tests at all. This letter was also sent by Mari-Anne Härma to Mario Kadastik, that you see, here is a company that has tested its tests in schools. So it was also our knowledge that this is a company that actually has piloted tests on children, and this piloting showed that these tests really are such that children can handle them well. And now the question is, which fault is it? I don't think it's anyone's fault. Indeed, on 14 October the government decided that the Ministry of Social Affairs, in cooperation with the framework agreement partner, will prepare a pilot screening project in all schools after school holidays. Just before the decisions we talked about, it turned out that it was not possible to do this screening with this framework agreement partner in all schools, but it was important for us that the school environment be as safe as possible after school holidays. And as a matter of wisdom, we can say that it was a very correct decision that these rapid tests were obtained so quickly in schools, because in the first week we detected over 1,000 positive rapid tests and now in five weeks we have detected over 3,000 positive rapid tests. Yes, it was the right decision, and I believe that it made an important contribution to seeing a general decline in infection today. Thank you. I was quiet, and the gentlemen were quiet.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U172	Let's get to the questions, shall we? Got it. Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U173	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Minister, thank you for these answers. My question is two-part. The first concerns the same urgency that you have explained here that you only had three days. Both the guidelines of the European Union and our law state that such a direct agreement must be an exception which will only be used if, due to technical and time constraints due to extreme urgency, only one undertaking can fulfil the contract. And there must be a causal link between the unforeseen event and the extreme urgency of the procedure without prior publication. Perhaps you could explain to us once again what was this extremely urgent event that took place, that you only had three days to conclude this agreement? The second question concerns the need for the contracting authority to consider all aspects of public procurement, including disputes. You said that the fine could come to you up to EUR 32000, but did you think that this company, which has now been deprived of this contract, could still bring you a claim for damages during the year? Have you taken that into account? Two questions in one.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U174	Thank you. Yeah, I'm sure that's the law's point for exceptional cases. Its use must be exceptional and it has been. As far as I know, this law has never been implemented before. It was the first time, we set a precedent. And, of course, I understand that this is a problem for people involved in procurement, because we do not want this method of procurement to spread in any way. No, it must be very well-founded and, in exceptional cases, feasible. My lawyers estimated that this was the situation. And why were they so appreciated? Because the government decided on Thursday to allocate 7.5 million to buy the tests. In order to have tests in schools on 1 November, this task could not be resolved in any other way. Secondly, we saw that this was a time when the infection grew very quickly. When we discussed the use of rapid tests in schools in mid-October, and the Ministry of Social Affairs left the task of organising screening in all schools after school holidays as a pilot project, the infection rate was the 14-day average of 1000. At the moment we made the decision to allocate this money, the 14-day infection rate was close to 2000, 1700 and 1800 between. In the meantime, there had been a very rapid increase. And today, experts have also said that we were not really ready in the autumn for the delta strain to spread so quickly among children. We didn't have that knowledge, but we saw in the schools that he really was spreading very quickly. And that's why, unlike other waves, we also saw that young people had such high levels of infection, they kept growing, and there weren't so many of them before these tests. Today we can say that the number of school monsters is decreasing. If there were 141 at the beginning of November, today we already have Monday, I don't have any last week's data yet, probably the Health Board does, but the latest data showed that there were 86 school fires. There was a significant decrease in the number of school fires. And that's because we were able to take rapid tests so quickly. I was talking about 300 fine units in the order of 1200 euros. That much can be fined to the ministry. I have said that when this fine is imposed on the Ministry, I signed this agreement and I am prepared to pay a fine of EUR 1,200. However, of course, companies who feel that they have been harmed in this procedure are entitled to complain about this. Of course this is an opportunity, and that is what we need to take into account. But schools have been freed up, children have been able to exercise their constitutional right, received as high-quality education as possible in contact training, and this is the most important thing for me as a minister of education and research.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U175	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U176	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Let's see and try to talk mathematically. If that deal went off in a way, there was 3 million and eventually he was pushed to a man there with 5 million, then the difference is 2 million. And let's see that the fine for that is 200 euros. Maybe it's disproportionate, but I want to refer to a whole other thing. You said you had a very good advisor who prepared everything in three days. That's 250 euros a day for this job. After all, he had not previously looked at the expectations and hopes of society. And my second point in all this complicated design is that your legal people also said who is involved in public procurement on a daily basis. Don't you think someone's digging a hole for you to get some bad advice? You went to do a major cleanup, which means you may have gathered your enemies.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U177	Thank you. Firstly, not EUR 200, but EUR 1200, is a different amount. Secondly, I specifically stressed that my advisor was involved in the preparation of this procurement, but he was not the only one at all. There was a team working on it, he was a team member. But all the rest of the crew are at full-time work, Mario Kadastik is part-time at work, and he clearly contributed significantly more than half-time work during this period. And if you can figure out a legal way for me to get these rapid tests to schools in three days using another lawn bar, I'm very grateful and I'm sure I'll share that information with others. I say it was a precedent and it is important that this subject be analysed. And I know that this is done in both the National Audit Office and the Ministry of Finance. It is important that we find out whether we did the right thing in this situation or not. If not, what would have been the most appropriate way of carrying out the task that the government placed on the Ministry of Education and Research so that we could guarantee children quality contact training, that is, their constitutional right.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U178	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U179	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, You have, however, slipped quite a bit, as I say, slightly bypassed or so smoothly past the question of why the Ministry of Social Affairs did not do what really should have been done. And so we can at some point reach a situation where the Ministry of Education is organising all the procurements that are needed. We have thus set a bad precedent for [municipal governments], where decisions may be taken: today we will take a decision, a decision to stall, until the time comes, and then we will do it tomorrow. Why didn't the Ministry of Social Affairs do that, and why would you even say you're defending the Ministry of Social Affairs? This fish, in fact, I think it's more there. Of course, you should test, against it, I think, no one in the Isamaa Group is.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U180	Thank you for your question. Firstly, indeed, yes, the Fatherland Group and your representatives have talked for a long time about the need for rapid testing. I myself have been a believer in rapid testing since spring, I have written and collected practices from other countries on this subject. From autumn on, we did not start testing just because the infection rates were low. And we still started rapid testing in schools, it was the first step, we tested close contacts. As far as the Ministry of Social Affairs is concerned, I am quite frankly [I say] that I understand that it is very difficult for them right now. They have a lot of problems right now. The Ministry of Social Affairs is working to make sure we don't have people dying in the hospital so we can have hospitals to take sick people to. And we were in a very difficult situation where we needed to distribute these tasks. We were hoping, and there was also a justification for simply using existing framework testing. We were hoping it would work, but actually, the tester said he wouldn't be able to handle this task so quickly. If he had more time, he'd probably have been able, but he wasn't that fast. And that is why, since the basic interest of the Ministry of Education and Research is that children also receive high-quality education in the most secure environment possible under pandemic conditions, we have taken on this task. At the time, when the interest of the Ministry of Social Affairs was that sick people could be treated, our interest was that children could be safely trained in contact, and that is why we took the risk.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U181	Good Minister, there are no further questions for you. Thank you! Let's open the negotiations, Heiki Hepner starts. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U182	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, Indeed, since spring, the Isamaa Group has been talking about rapid testing and its need for [if] one chance to reduce the risk of infection. And if we put this principle in today's context or in the context of this question, it is quite questionable to talk about the urgent need. The urgent need could only have arisen in such a way that, for several months, the possibility of rapid testing was simply overlooked and was not intended very seriously for this possibility, even if the so-called test screenings and tests were already carried out in March on how it could be carried out. This should have been followed by a specific description of the process, a risk assessment, that if we implement it, how much time it takes for us to get some tests, how we train schools and how we ultimately carry it out in schools. I don't know if it was meant to be or not, but it's kind of a logical part. And I wouldn't want to put you in that tank here, good minister, and say it was your question. This would have been largely a matter of the Ministry of Social Affairs, which is responsible for this area as a whole. Yes, he should have included you, of course, in the HTM, but it is a matter for the Ministry of Social Affairs to manage this process as a whole. I don't see any way to tell you that it somehow popped off overnight, that the fire came out of nowhere, and we couldn't see it coming. I'm sure it wasn't. And, well, when we think that the government made a decision on Thursday, on Monday we wanted to start testing really, I also had contact with several school leaders who called me, and I myself contacted some people to get information, and many school leaders said that its implementation is a challenge and that we could actually buy time, delay the school break for a few days, or give schools time to run the tests smoothly for a few more days. I can't tell you how much risk it would have taken in the context of the Public Procurement Act. I really don't think that would have helped much. This would rather have been a practical solution in order for the tests to go smoothly. Luckily, our schools were relatively good, they worked hard and they were out on the weekend and they were communicating with teachers, and they thought very seriously about how to do it, and they were more or less well tested. I'm sure they were good at that. But we are still going to recede as a final issue to its urgency. In my opinion, we have set a very bad precedent with this, and if we find that this can continue, then it will be used, referring to this very specific case. I'm saying that every government... Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U183	Yeah, please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U184	... each municipality, figuratively speaking, could apply it after all. Well, what's the matter, let's stretch the decision-making process until, figuratively speaking, the house is on fire or the problem is acute, let's say we have nothing else to do if we have to solve this basically through direct procurement. This is a very bad precedent for the principles of public procurement. There have been months to think about this subject, but in the end, we will decide as a matter of urgency. We want the best, but it always turns out the way it used to. In this sense, I very much hope that such solutions will not come in the future. And I also very much hope that the Ministry of Social Affairs, who is the bearing ministry in solving this problem, cannot hide behind the fact that we have so much work, we have so many different concerns, and [happens] next time again. Well, maybe some other ministry will take it and do it for them. In some ways, of course, the government as a whole is responsible for this issue. The Minister has now taken the initiative and, in some respects, it is a pity that this has happened. Work has been done and responsibility has been taken, which falls within the remit of both the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U185	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U186	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good workmates and good waitress! I also tried to go back and forth in this hall several times, but my colleague Odines didn't notice any further development in me that I was getting smarter. The Anti Division, which we still have as a teacher, said there's hope. But I found one simple solution: I put my glasses on, and then I feel like I'm smarter. I'd like to talk about this axis of time and these things. A little bit of "Agu Sihvka is reporting": everything we have to start with, this one, this one, and the other one. In my opinion, however, it is a matter of literally faith, or political religion. Everything that was done before was wrong in every way, and all the things that those who did it said before are entirely wrong. We had this kind of power struggle: rapids versus vaccination. On the other hand, our opposition has not questioned the need for vaccination, but we still believe that these things should happen together. If we have developed not, let's say, a vaccine medicine, but the thing that would boost our immune system is vitamin C, vitamin D, zinc, magnesium or something else, you could get it. And, of course, distance 2 + 2 and the wash of hands and all of that. There is no point simply in bringing one of the chosen things into a political battle and embracing it. That's actually what they say we have a plan, but it doesn't. The plan is actually to jog, play just numb, and then see that now it's all bells, the kids are about to have a school break, so you have to decide in three days. It was one of the very bad advice that this college of advisors or a collegial councillor's army could give. The old folks say a run in the summer. It could have been during the summer when the debates were actually in March. We can all see. I will say one thing honestly here. I actually got my mouth open pretty hard when I heard that Mr. Kadai is now the virologic advisor to the Chancellor of Justice. The man who said two weeks before Estonia was locked down: I can't believe we're having some flights closed at the airport or something. He just didn't live in that rhythm and in this world to get the information that needs to be received adequately. The fact that we are in this situation today has raised questions in all economic operators and we must be clear as a country. I am currently using this podium here for what is my constitutional right, no members of the Riigikogu can be held accountable. I'll tell you what Vox Populi says. The issue is procurement [overpaid] EUR 2 million and another minister and coffee machine. We should be strict about both of us here in the Riigikogu as the creators of the law. On one, we took away the integrity of the ambassador, on the other, we are saying this: it is not an attack on you, it is where there is a safety record. And I also referred softly to the fact that HTM is a complicated ministry, just as this sotsmin is a complicated ministry. There's officials there forever that I promised to put a gold statue in the super ministry. One official felt personally touched. No, I still meant those who are better and smarter than the oldest woman in the village, who remembers from the beginning of [the days] how all these things were organized and done during Brezhnev. These people don't give up without a fight. I think that, in the case of both the previous minister and the current minister, there will be perhaps a junior sergeant coming from somewhere who is willing to go into battle and throw himself in front of the dzot simply to get rid of the minister. There's something I need to do here, but what it is, I can't tell you about it, I'm missing out on intelligence here. Sorry is perhaps the easiest thing to say, that this cannot happen again, that's not a good line. We're gonna have to disapprove of such things that we're just gonna blow the crap out of it in a hurry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U187	The members of the Riigikogu do not seem to want to speak further. The Minister has once again asked for a chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U188	Thanks for the discussion. Thank you for the opportunity to explain. I repeat once again that, under the Public Procurement Act, the use of such a provision should only be exceptional. And it is very important that this precedent is analysed and assessed whether we did the right thing or whether we did not do the right thing. And if we didn't do the right thing, of course we're responsible. I'm a member of the government, too. There can be no such general responsibility in the government. I am a member of the government, and I am also responsible for the government's decisions, and especially for the decision concerning the rapid testing of students. I would like to conclude by saying that today the government has decided that we will continue to test fast in schools at least until the end of the school year and the third procurement will be carried out by the State Support Services Centre. They've said they can see if it's going the way the law says it is. They thought it would take a minimum of two and a half months to make an open call. In addition, we must also take into account the challenge, of course, but we hope that the third call made by the State Support Services Centre will go very well and that we will be guaranteed rapid tests for schools for the future. Today we already know that this second procurement had to result in tests on the plane on 4 December. The reality is that they got on the plane today because there are problems with international supplies. These tests will not reach the schools by Wednesday of this week, as we had planned, but they will probably reach the schools by the end of this week. We are already seeing how difficult this task is, given the current situation where international supplies are a problem. But thank you again for giving me the opportunity to explain!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U189	I will conclude the debate on this issue, and with it we have nicely exhausted our agenda today.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U190	But, as usual, on Mondays, after a hammer hit, all members of the Riigikogu can register for a speech in a free microphone. So, ladies and gentlemen, please, if you have a wish, give me a signal. Peter Ernits is first. The round of nobedad fingers gave Peeter Ernits an advantage.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U191	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not as quick as my colleague Urmas Kruuse, but I'm glad I can do something a little bit. And why am I here? I was thinking that if we talk about everything today, Estonian and librarians and rapid tests, but not about electricity and green turns, then something is really wrong. Well, we only had the 626 [euro] exchange price at 5 to 6 o'clock, now that we're here, it's 350, but in May it was 50, August was 87, September 100. But what happens at 8:00 in the morning when you brush your teeth? That's 1,000. Space! Then it falls to 650 and then it goes to 1,000 again. In short, we're in a whole new reality, and the coroner and coffeemaker Yura is all bullshit, I say. We have entered a new reality. And if the Minister of Public Administration recently said that yes, we will find this program and in January somewhere may be compensated for those who are powerless. But the bills are in October-November and they will come in December. But I'm telling you, this thing will go on for another ten years before luck comes to our yard. It won't end in the spring. This morning, we discussed these matters with Rohetigron's leaders. Not two to three years. [For the year] 2025, there's uncoupling from Russia, then a couple more years, 2030, 2029, maybe we can get some sea wind parks. Maybe we can! Then there will be another ten years of America's mountains. You know what's in the mountains of America: the heart gets sick and many puke and aren't very happy. It's the greenery or the grass, the real price of it. The first EUR 1000 we see between 8 and 9 next morning, tomorrow morning. But what does that really mean? Yeah, good luck is ten years supposedly, but maybe 15, because with Rail Baltic you remember how it was: it was supposed to be ready in 2026, but now it's gonna be four more years, and maybe it's not the end. What else are they saying? Yeah, 2031 is out of oil shale power plants. At the same time, there must be 50 giant winds in the sea, 47 in particular, and 250 more on land. And all power, all joy must come from there. Cheaper than it is, of course. At the same time, 2031 must be 12% of our cars that you, colleagues, drive and I, too, must be electric cars. But today it's 2800 electric cars at all. And even though the Ministry of Economic Affairs says that in a good case, it's going to be 5,000 a year, AMTEL says that it's actually 3,000. But in nine years, I figured out, there's supposed to be 10667 electric cars every year. It's such a utopia! But this is reality, and under these sails, under the green sails, we're on the roller coaster right now. However, there has been no so-called socio-economic assessment of what it means, when the heart gets bad for a large part of the people and what it is. But at the same time, politically, all of this is very clearly distributed. A recent study asked if you would support the European Union's climate targets even if this would lead to a multiple increase in electricity prices. [In response] the political spectrum was split into two parts. On one side, who said 'yes' or 'yes', sorry, there was the Reform Party and the Soccer, 60% and 55% respectively, and on the other side it was the other side. Well, my home party said no to 95%. And the Centre Party and the Fatherland were there between, eight...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U192	Good Peter, but now it's been five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U193	Yeah, that's all I'm saying. So enjoying the winter night in the roller coaster! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U194	One Mile of Võrumaa, welcome to the chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U195	Reverend folkloreq! Reverend Päämiise! The wind that my colleague Ernits länyõis, with his power, starred. And he said he couldn't get a hummynn at a hummogu toothbite. But I didn't want to walk. I'm gonna have a sluggish-eyed moon's ooze with a võro tongue. So decisionivaq taraq võro language edendämis ärjämis jäq. So since the end of January's Edijädse nädäli, I've been a lynx of Võro tongue. Toda kommüt om now tünny moon. Edimäne kuu ol" sjoo on November, the honorable colleague Annely Ott ol" võro kõnõõja. What the fuck is that keel sis? Tongueteidüse mõin om tä sõdguseasoomõõhte keil. And timä kanõlõjit om ubõs 75,000, perämäne folklore so say. And Tuu 75000 lettersäs toda, et võro kil om long-distanceõõlü väljaõmb sääne keelekrupte group, miä om koskilgi kõlgi kõlgi siil eigi siinika om. 75,000, sinnä ümbre oliõv number om tüts serious, and maybe tõdä kõhkõmb iks Vana-Võromaaal, ie sis Vana-Võromaa kaitsan parishkunnan. Kõgõ nuq katõsaq parishekunnnaq om ka ärq tokentüq here in katkasanuka pääl, mi ä me here in katan rip. To võro kiilt om kõnõldu jo astit, but tell me at the moment it was" so that targembaq ingemageq paiva, that tä ärq kaoma. Estonian keel fire" although in the stake. And egä vinnõ aig oll" also the way that neither sis nor the school was covered with a skewed tuu pääle, ku kiäki võro keeln kõnõl". A I say that the waterfall, or 30 years ago, ku ingemeq nakasivaq, to pick up the stake somehow from the stump of the Võro tongue, the Võro dragonfly and culture. An inflamed Võro-Linge radio transmitter. Ingemeq, who took the case of nooq, I say, tuu aigu egäs vorokõsõq esiq vägä mõõkeq is not olõq, vorokõsõq olõq õigõgõi kõi kõu tule õu päälele, kõu võro kõrvas tuulel tuull'. I think it's 95 Võro Institute's luminõ oll" tuu, kos nakas tu võro language eendäminõ säändsen system. Kama Kaidot, kiä tuu aig tollõ ei takan takan" And so om sis peräminä 25 And neither sis õigõ ball"o om tett, õigõ pall"o om tett, tuusamanõ Võro Instituut, pällä om antu hää include a korokile book, vorokile Uma Leht tuulõ pällä. Ku bookkõst länõlda, sis õkva om tullõki pääl epos "Kallyvipoig" võro kingen. And so tä om ännü. Says a noteworthy birth myth, which I note also ärq täämbä, sjoo om muidokiq bring a vocal song party. Tõndä naaq üuluq, mis sinnä tuõva, no võro keelq üuluq, no ommaq all with the power of one worth a great pleasure, and tuu ind and tuu enthusiasm with which to practice the innemeq tuõva, usually next to profikuriq, also a sändse amateurq kuriq. Get her to say it with her power at the illo and the suffocation thing. The overall sõrge as võro kil om küts illos and lämmi thing and the clear tuu that vorokõsiq everything, kos without end, kos kokko saaq, sis võro tonguen contagiousq umavaihõl porrama, sis nigu barrierq om kasjunu. So, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, But it's clear that Võro tongue edendämis om viil ball'o tetä. It said what I or ärq would say is that neither the protagonism of the Võro language nor the project-based nature of the draft, so all the parishes of Estonia. It is not the basis of the project olõ-iq olõ-iq that wanted to have a stable crowd of ways of financing the promotion of the language and, in the following subjects, certainly the way that I would like to have a tulõõõõma to be more of a zygenämbält to mis nuq themedq ommavaq. A saying covering the theme om naturally võro keel, education, võro keile latsõq, võro keel morep, larger public use, all nouq teemäq, with which I believe that I will river the tee in front of the kõnõõma here even the next first day. Thank you, huveq friendq!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U196	Thank you, Mistress of Võromaa! Now, be really good and help me fix the verbatim. Okay. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U197	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good workmates and the people who listen to your verbatim, everyone and everything! I myself have called this free microphone here karaoke. It has been a great desire to come here, even though I have heard and the eye has confirmed that before the elections, this remote control will get a little better here. And, of course, we ambassadors have the fact that our freedom of expression is not so free. It is exactly what it is. The first reading, the third reading, is in fact decided by a group that can be said. The only free place we have is the second reading where we can [say our opinion], but then there is also a terrible problem when the group's opinion is a little different. One of the things I wanted to talk about, or what made me talk about here in front of you in this remote control, is that Peter Ernits, a good coworker, told us about the new reality. We've all heard the expression "New Normality." It is considered that normality has become even more normal. Linguistically, based on what Professor Mart Rannut says, there is normality, and the answer to that is abnormal, which we call a new norm today. So a new norm, if that's just abnormal. I have also asked the officials why you are telling us in the Commission, for example, about some abnormal things. I'd still like to know about normal things and how to do these things. Now, where do I want to go with this? That I have had two good short stays in Tallinn City Council. And the systems here in the Riigikogu and Tallinn City Council are extremely strange. It's like we've been stoned in our house and procedures, but I hear there's going to be some quiet new winds, which means the opposition's going to turn off a little bit of the faucet. This may simply give the impression that the power parties actually believe that they have forever committed themselves to the so-called good fortune. The same is actually true in the city of Tallinn. We dealt with the audit committee and the members of the audit committee there. Surprise-surprise, we have in Tallinn legislation [given opportunity] that, being chairman of the committee, you may also belong to another committee. But this opportunity, as we have here in the Riigikogu, is that if you cannot go to the committee, the group can [send me] the body that will give the group's opinion. Unbelievable as it may be, the Central Party manned the audit committee with three former deputy mayors and one of the district elders, half of whom have financial problems. If we now think about the work of the audit committee, then they cannot review the future, but they can still review the past and, as far as possible, the present. I don't know what it's for, but it feeds a lot of conspiracy theories. The three former deputy mayors, being the chairmen of the committee themselves, can block even the work plan of the audit committee. The coalition has an advantage and they just vote unpleasant [things out]. This actually puts the other side in a very bad position, which has not yet gotten into trouble with financial matters. I apologise here: who has not yet gotten into trouble with financial matters, but possibly... You don't know where he's tingling. Why am I saying this now? After all, our press was supposed to be investigative, so let us examine what this so-called real purpose is, why such heavy artillery should be in one of the audit committees who are studying and studying Tallinn legislation and financial documents. That's a good question. Take care, wash your hands, and so on! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U198	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U199	Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, Hähtä kooliq and muidoq kollõjaq, kiiä kõrva this kõrro kiilt and kiä does not understand! I have no intention of coming here, a while Ivar here on the hallway, a hakk-a-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha. And now, as for the Võro language, as for the thought of it and the walk of it, I have thought of it as to whether it is possible for the Võro tongue to say everything in a mundane political knuckle, a politician thing, everything, say, say, say, say, that the wind was also disgusted. And I kept thinking that neither did a spider so light as oli-iq. I oliõ Võromaaalt peri, a Võromaa miis now not olõ, et elä Tallinnan. I stopped to think about Võro's tongue in 2017 with a bullet. And I thought I wouldn't walk with a latrine. And I'm going to have to go to the end of you, so now I'm going to have to speak the Võro of the West. Egaq otherwise doesn't opt for the front of the body. Ku is not an inämb kodokand, especially kokiq bigõmba lininan, Tallinian Tartu vai kohkiq muial, sis see quickly that all the stylish chiro-linguistic and lep thing from the hand and latseq unõhtasõq also the thing ärq. Enough to infect the firefly, nuq 75,000, kiä me om, that you see the ice here väämbäs. And, uh, may we now have here the Minister of Education asked us to walk here and to say, "Midä mi kyssemi, sis I stayed here to think that if we go a hundred years, in 1919, let us think about Tartu, that now from the university, that what can we get from the University of Tartu so big, whether we have the University of Tartu in Tulõi, Tulõõvski Universitet sis Dorpatische Universität, and to tell you that Tullõ University of Tartu, tulõ-iq midäki does not have anything else. And sis es olõ-iq tuu võu või väljaga väljaga väljat väljad väljat olivaq võmlidsõq oksama, noid es olõ-iq välja ball-o. But the verdict of the tutti and the university's chirpy-face on the fire, as it were, and the chirpy-face on the olympic and elli edesi. And get a tuud miokiq tõõsõ Ülikooliq, ku tehnikaülikool tull And the whole... we're gonna gloat over the wind that we're gonna have the bottom of the tub under it, so why don't you just stay here with the heelloaf and the pastel mano, the kos mi or maybe the kosk on the olmi neverq and we're gonna be a fire-crested people. So, what's the olympic now? Do I look like I don't want to be a people with korgõi culture when I say I don't want to be a people with korgõi culture? Once upon a time niguq kadakaq, nou om säändseq ingemeq, who maybe es piä lock from the uma language, uma culture and wonder that right-wingly we areq saxlasõq vai inglasõq vai viil kiäkiq. Now, let's get out of here and get out of here and think about it, that it's gonna be a mile sis, if it's glasõq rug American lasõq stake kiäki. To which perch mi head here the country oppama inemisiq from Africa, India, Bangladesh, Pakistan, from the waterfall here the language of inglowness. I don't know what to do with it. If we have om hädä tuuga et eesti keel... oppada. It doesn't even seem like a good logic to me that I'm going to do it like that. And the head screaming to begin with chaos of this rattlesq ärq, after chaos of keil esiq ärq and immediately mi now vällä riveramiq? And we have our uma Republic here praego, oli eiq kiäki other here praego us here guided by a stake us here in command. And we can't get any of those things in front of us. He did, didn't he? Sjoo om all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-06_U200	And now in purely Estonian: the trial is closed.
