ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. Good fellows! Honourable Members of the Government of the Republic! Good Prime Minister! Happy Question Time Watchers! Let's start Question Time on 10 November, and first of all I'll tell you, as an introduction, that we're at a distance meeting now, and if there's some kind of hiccup here, I'm just asking for an understanding. Help me too, you've always been very good and supportive colleagues, so help me get through this briefing too. Now we're conducting a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U2	So, according to current information, 22 members of the Riigikogu have registered and 79 are missing. A procedural question, Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U3	Thank you, Mr President. I have this procedural question. As we know, in Question Time, the Board of the Riigikogu determines the order in which questions are to be submitted, taking into account certain differences, say, the leaders of the political groups and so on. But please explain to me this fact, which is why, in a stable way, I am always practically always at the end of the queue for questions. A couple of times I've been penultimate when there's 20 questions. Would it be possible, let's say, to ask the Riigikogu's board to ask me to put an end to this kind of discrimination in order for me to be able to be there in the middle if the time limit doesn't come up?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U4	Thank you, good questioner. The truth is that there is a certain logic in the order in which Question Time is asked. In particular, there has been a very strong practice that the opposition first gets the opportunity, taking into account how many political parties there are in opposition. We are very clear that every Wednesday will be the first to ask for a representative of a different opposition party. In addition, we are counting on the ministers to change. There is no unwritten rule or logic that you say you have to be the last or the last. But I promise that we will certainly return to your request, and we will [consider] it the next time it has really been so, as you say. Of course, it's not a certain handwriting. Let's move on to a good rhythm with procedural questions. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U5	Thank you. I have a question to clarify as a result of your answer. You said it was customary for opposition ambassadors to ask questions. The recent positions and statements of the Centre Party have given the impression that the Centre Party has also taken up opposition, but I do not see the questions of these ambassadors. Are they not asked questions, or is the Centre Party still in the coalition?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U6	This second question: The Centre Party is still in the coalition. Thank you. We've got those lines right now. So, let's start with our briefing. The following members of the Government of the Republic participate in the Question Hour: Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, Minister of Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse and Minister of Health and Labour Tanel Kiik. I have a proposition, good colleagues. Let us put it this way: there is one point to be specified and one supplementary question to be asked.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U7	Let's go! The first question is asked by Ruuben Kaalep, a member of the Riigikogu; Prime Minister Kaja Kallas answers this question and the question is addressed by the Vaccine Damage Fund. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U8	Prime Minister! You have refused to create a vaccine damage fund, and you have explained that you have consulted with behavioural scientists. It would send the wrong signal to people that there's massive vaccine damage. Of course, it is no longer a surprise that you will see the Estonian people like some of Pavlov's dogs, with whom you need to speak in the language of signals. You do not know how to communicate with the people with sincere words or rational arguments, but you need the advice of behaviorologists. But my question is: what kind of signal do you think the failure to create a vaccine damage fund will send to all those who remember how governments and large companies have been lying to the public for decades, since the weapons of mass destruction in Iraq and the destruction of Estonia and ending with money laundering at Danske Bank? Isn't that the signal that something's being covered up again?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U9	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U10	Thank you. Hello for me, too! Firstly, there is an agreement in the government to move forward with the Patient Insurance Bill, one of which would also be the Vaccine Damage Fund. So first of all, I reject your argument. Secondly, if we look at people who are ill with COVID and look at people who have had some serious side effects with the vaccine, serious cases have been reported by 218, including 110 medical professionals. These are as if already confirmed cases, the healthcare professional has estimated that this has been caused by the vaccine. I will bring to the side the amount of vaccine injections that have been made in Estonia: 1477877. That was November 1st. Actually, it's going to be even bigger today. If you look at this, these serious cases are 0.01% of all doses that have been made. And I'm going to bring another one: 206972 people have contracted the Corona virus, 9838 people have been in hospital care, and 1623 people have died. So it's 0.72% of the affected. When we look at the world, the dead are 2.02% of the infected. Why am I talking about this? Because the likelihood of harm is considerably higher when you get this disease, not when you receive the vaccine. If we also look at data from other countries, such as the European Medicines Agency, there have been 562800000 doses of vaccination against COVID-19 and 0.12% of cases reported. What am I saying? Similar data are available for Finland: 0.06% of side effects are reported compared to vaccine doses. So, in fact, vaccination is still reasonable, vaccination can help to overcome the damage that may be caused by this disease. You can also try to play the part of the Russian roulette that suffers from it more easily, but I do not recommend it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U11	And now for a more specific question, Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U12	Good Prime Minister! It's interesting to see how your position in time changes like the Overton window. Initially, you didn't say anything about vaccine damage, now you admit that there are serious vaccine damage, but you're still stubbornly avoiding the term "vaccine death." And that is why I have a simple question about your answer: are you ready now, on your heart, to assure the people of Estonia that there are no vaccine deaths and that no family needs to be afraid of having their loved ones vaccinate themselves? Do you have the courage to say that vaccine deaths do not exist knowing that your words will remain on videotape in years' time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U13	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U14	Thank you. The Agency also has reports of deaths that are likely to be associated with the vaccine... Or I will now use this exact wording: 'The Agency has estimated that there may be a link to vaccination, it cannot be ruled out. " Perhaps they do not say that there are certain deaths due to the vaccine, but this relationship cannot be ruled out. There are four cases. Four! I recall that 1623 people have died in Estonia because of COVID. This proportion is quite different. And these four cases are not certain that they are related to the vaccine, but this is possible or cannot be ruled out that they are related to the vaccine. Still, the bigger problem is that if you have this disease seriously, you get in the hospital precisely because you are unvaccinated, and therefore you have this disease seriously if you suffer from it, for example, disability or lung damage or whatever. Unfortunately, no fund has been set up to compensate for this loss. So in any case, don't risk it, it's worth vaccinating. This is said by all health professionals, healthcare professionals, that this is the only way to prevent serious illness and the major problems it poses.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U15	So, no further questions. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U16	Let us move on to the second question. The question is asked by the Riigikogu member Helir-Valdor Seeder, which is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. The issue is about government decisions in the COVID-19 crisis. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U17	Thank you. Prime Minister! My question concerns schools and testing. Already in March this year, the Scientific Advisory Board proposed to start testing in schools. And then the Ministry of Education and Research also announced that EUR 850000 would be allocated for this purpose to purchase these tests. Let me remind you, it was already in March this year. And later, the Minister of Education and Research has said that these tests will be those that can be easily and easily used in schools, including spit tests. They do not need to be 'professional tests' and are also capable of being performed by every five-year-old child. Today we have learned that everything has gone differently. In a hurry, officials and government have had to make important decisions within ten minutes. The acquisition of tests has remained in the middle of the academic year, which is now at the end of October, beginning of November. Yet we all know that the academic year begins in September. We, too, have proposed to start testing here in the Riigikogu Hall at the beginning of the academic year. For some reason the government did not reach the decisions, it is late, and all this procurement has found very acute criticism by the various parties. The price has become unreasonable. A number of companies that were able to sell these tests claim that they have not been able to participate cheaper. Please tell me why the government was undecided for six months, couldn't decide it, and now it finally did. And why did all this procurement turn out to be the way it was?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U18	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U19	Thank you. In the summer, according to the Ministry of Education and Research, the results of the survey were that parents' willingness to vaccinate children was much higher than parents' willingness to have their children tested. Then in the government, under the leadership of the Ministry of Education and Research, we worked out a procedure for the organisation of the work in schools. In particular, close contacts shall be tested. Children who have been vaccinated or who have had it through can continue to attend school, including other children without symptoms, but when they are in contact with a sick child, close contacts are tested. And that's what a school nurse does. Now that the spread of the infection was greater, we decided to really conduct screening in all schools to pick out the positive early out. And I have to say that this testing, which has taken place in schools since school break, has actually been more successful than expected. In general, it has been rather positive. The positive side is also that over 900 positives were plucked out throughout this week, and the PCR test was positive. In fact, these people, children and school staff didn't have any symptoms yet, but with a quick test these people were identified, they stayed at home, and as a result, certain strains of infection were disrupted. Studies in schools showed that at first children had a great deal of anxiety about testing it, but in fact it has gone more easily than originally thought. Now, on 14 October, we really decided in the government that screening in all schools will be done after school break. The school break ended on November 1, the children returned to school, and then the tests began.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U20	And now the point to be clarified. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U21	Thank you. Honourable Prime Minister! I still didn't understand the answer why we didn't start testing at the beginning of the school year, in September. After all, it was a long period of preparation, schools could have been prepared by teachers, children, parents, to carry out a proper procurement. The recommendation of the Scientific Advisory Board was previously in place, and opposition parties also suggested. I still don't understand why the government didn't come to those decisions, and now it's fast-tracked. You said that testing in schools has gone smoother than you thought, but that doesn't make this procurement any more successful. These are different things. But I still have a question about schools. You said the government decided to do screening or testing in all schools. As far as I am concerned, it is carried out only in general education schools, i.e. also in upper secondary school, but not in vocational schools. I don't know what that is. Is there a lower risk of infection in VET institutions, or are these students and teachers not infected in the same way as other students? I have no idea what the government's decision is, maybe you'll explain. The second question concerns your proposal and reconsideration, and again the proposal for non-vaccinated people to move backwards, i.e. politicise the setting-up of treatment queues, not to leave it to medical staff and doctors, but to postpone the end of the order of treatment on the basis of such a political decision. Do you continue to disagree with the Minister for Health and Labour on this issue? The Minister of Health and Labour said he would not support this proposal. The last time you proposed this was in an interview with Eesti Päevaleht on 3 November this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U22	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U23	Thank you. I'll start right behind you. Of course, hospitals have the right to decide, and hospitals decide who they heal and how and how these queues develop. No one can say it has to be one way or the other. If I have been asked, I have expressed my opinion and I am of the opinion that if the restriction of scheduled treatment is related to the fact that hospitals are filled with unvaccinated people, then it would make sense that if you [need to perform] hip surgery, for example, you are more at risk of getting this infection from the hospital if you are not vaccinated. And then you're gonna have to wait until that infection background stays high. But it's my logic, and it's not imposed on hospitals in any way. Hospitals make these decisions themselves in the same way as they make the decisions they prefer in the emergency department: who has to wait, who gets help faster. That's right. However, it is clear that the restriction of scheduled treatment is due to the fact that COVID beds are mostly filled by unvaccinated people. And we also have a major intra-hospital disease spread, which means that unvaccinated people can get COVID in the hospital, which could be more dangerous to them than their other concerns, if they've come into some kind of surgery. Your first question concerned vocational training institutions. To be honest, I can't tell you why VETs are out of here. In general, we have talked about all schools. It's been our understanding. But I will come back to the question of whether vocational training institutions should be under it. In itself, as you rightly point out, this testing helps to pick out the positive ones, and in vocational training institutions where students are in contact, the teaching goes exactly the same way and the risks are the same. So I'm going to take that idea with me anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U24	And now I would like to ask for an additional question, as we agreed in advance. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U25	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I would like to return to the tests from which a good colleague, Helir-Valdor Seeder, started. But I'm going to ask you a little bit different about that. Well, people have written to me that the tests that were sent to schools and homes last week lacked Estonian-language markings and instructions for use. And there was no safety instructions. After all, these tests were intended for professional use, but they went directly into the hands of children, minors. And now it has become clear that even without written instructions in Estonian. We have laws that provide very specific rules for the medical devices that these tests are, and especially their instructions for use, which must be in Estonian. How could tests that did not comply with the rules of law have come into circulation? How was the tenderer selected and why there was no control over whether the tests comply with the legal requirements?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U26	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U27	Thank you. First of all, if you don't mind, I'd like to answer Helir-Valdor more about schools. The Minister of Health here reminded me that the agreement was that we would start with general education schools and then move to other schools. Why vocational training establishments [later]? Since there are older students who have a chance of vaccination, there are more vaccinations. So anyway, let's get on with it. But I will now come to Mrs Helme's question. These tests, as far as I know, are exactly the same and quite simple. I understand that video footage was also sent about how this test is being carried out. And when I look at the feedback, the feedback from schools has been mostly positive. The kids loved it. Even in some schools, I saw how they were distributed, how teachers feel about it: it is an experience study, we learn what is a test that has been tested, what is the result of the test, etc. I understand that in these tests [good] is precisely that they are not invasive in any way, but in fact the nose will be tested for it. These tests have been easy to do and easy to use. And, as I said, in these schools, 431 schools, or 83.4% of the general education schools, submitted studies and answers to this whole testing procedure. And the feedback has been rather positive. About half of the respondents pointed out that testing has gone well, that there have been no failures. And it was also pointed out that, at first, when there was a lot of anxiety and confusion about testing, in fact, each time it became smoother, faster. In their return, the schools also said that such rapid testing should be continued.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U28	Now a procedural question, Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U29	Thank you. I know the questioner asks what he's asking for, and the respondent answers what he's saying, but I asked why these tests didn't comply with the law. I understand we're all gonna make it. We can also handle aspirin very well and can take it, but all aspirin packages have legal instructions, including in Estonian. I asked why there were no labels and instructions in Estonian. There were no safety instructions in Estonian either. That was my question. How could this happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U30	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U31	Let's move on to question three. It is presented by a member of the Riigikogu, Helmen Kütt, met by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. The issue will be the situation in the country. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U32	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Theodore Roosevelt has said that in every decision-making position, the best option to make the right choice is to make the wrong decision and the worst option to do is not to decide. The National Audit Office has made a number of proposals in its review, where it analyses vaccination, crisis management and support for local authorities. And I think that this is probably the material that is not now the teaching material, but it has been a very heavy price, because quite a lot of people have left us, but maybe [maybe] take something with them in preparation for the next waves or for the next diseases and crises. My question actually concerns the situation in hospitals, which was discussed this morning at the public hearing of the special committee on the control of the state budget of the Riigikogu. Hospital leaders have found that the situation is stable, but there are already signs of improvement, there is hope that the situation will improve. Can you understand that the time has been very short, but can you tell from the analysis or audit of the National Audit Office what the steps of your government are, thinking about the future? What will you do next to avoid such situations? It is also very worrying that it is pointed out that vaccination, which started quickly at the beginning of 2021, lost a good kick in the spring. There were vaccines, people were interested, but no injections were given. Obviously, such things should be avoided in the future. Maybe with a view to the future, you'll tell us what the next steps the government will take. I'm not thinking too much of [far-reaching] plans here, but a little bit longer, because this third wave won't be the last of us, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U33	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U34	Thank you. First of all, this was my request to the Auditor General, which I submitted to him in June when the second wave was coming to an end. Since we collected lessons from the first two waves, I asked him from outside to view it. So I made that request in June. We ourselves learned our lessons in July, but the Auditor General took a little longer to complete it now. Of course, many things had already been done by that time. Here is an example: crisis management. We have created a separate unit to run this whole COVID issue to the State Chancellery, who directly advises the government and helps to prepare all these things. This unit can communicate with all crisis committees and also share tasks. Regarding the Auditor General's report, it can also be said that these lessons are based on the first two waves, and much of which we have already taken note or rather taken note of to do so, is an honest answer. In the fall we were actually ready. Now, what can be better? As regards vaccination, I must say that there have been very different phases and very different approaches in these stages. We've had a situation where there's been enough vaccine and wanters, and everyone who's asked for it got all the shots. Later, this effort has been greater. What we have brought along as [the lesson] is, in fact, how we make the dose of effectiveness. However, it is true that, as Israel and other countries have said, who have started earlier, that the dose of effectiveness must be made. Especially in older people, the protection of the vaccine becomes weaker over time. As far as I know, we've already done over 88,000 doses of effectiveness, and we're moving on with it, while injecting the first and other doses. But, as I said, it is precisely those people who are either anti-vaccinating or hesitating that have not been vaccinated. It just takes more effort to move forward with them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U35	And now the point to be clarified. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U36	Thank you for your answer. In some respects, however, I disagree on the fact that the government has already taken certain lessons. There is probably something, but for example this very good colleague Helir-Valdor Seeder's question that, in fact, it might have been possible to start this public procurement and everything else earlier than the plan to start testing [the school students] and carry out a survey among the parents, which was very reasonable to find out if it was ready. We could have dealt with the procurement right away, because this price, which was decided very quickly, is undoubtedly high. And if it is true that there were no Estonian-language explanatory notes, it is also not good if government-run public procurement obtains tests where there is no Estonian-language explanation. However, I would like to ask that the National Audit Office has also pointed out that the government must be able to decide prudently and informedly. In fact, it must be possible to decide in this way whether or not to vaccinate, what are the risks, what are the risks, even for each person. People need to be aware of science-based, very different risks, as well as facts characterising the positive side. Our political party's former social and health and labour ministers and social protection ministers have made an address to which we have not received a reply. But I'm sure it'll get to us. In fact, a number of proposals have also come from people, such as the national information sheet. These things have not actually been taken on board, but people can decide if they know what [vaccination] might lead to. I very much agree, as the Minister for Health and Labour says, that there is a disease to be feared, not a vaccine, but that people are still afraid of the vaccine and these fears must not be underestimated. So, what do you think of this national factsheet anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U37	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U38	First of all, I will adjust that 93000 doses of effectiveness have already been made. But now, coming to parents' readiness, this study was in the summer, and parents' willingness to vaccinate the child was greater than to have children tested. That is why the approach was that only those who were close to them would be tested. But when the virus spread so extensively, there was an additional need to test everyone to actually pick out those [infected] who had no symptoms at all. Now, as far as information is concerned, today I had a meeting with the East Estonian Crisis Committee. Yesterday, I met with the Crisis Commission in the Southern Region. They say that there is actually a lot of information and lack of it is not a problem. If we think that we already have more than 70% of the adult population vaccinated in one dose, then instead of the general factsheet, we need to focus on those specific people who are still hesitating. That is why we have created these different opportunities. All information about myths and concerns is also available on the website of Vaccinator.ee and crisis.ee. But in fact, the Ministry of Social Affairs, in cooperation with the regional vaccination coordinators of the Health Board and the Health Insurance Fund, has organised the publication of information material in local government newspapers and other regional publications in order to reach all people. More attention will be paid to areas with lower levels of vaccination, including those with more native Russian speakers. We have vaccination campaigns in different municipalities and local publications from the Northern Tallinn district to the Valga Official Journal have published the vaccination information. Actually, there's information in the papers. And in the end, we've left those hesitants. What do the behaviorologists who did not allow the EKRE to consult tell us? They say that people who hesitate may be able to convince people with medical education. That's why we've found solutions for medical students calling people, family doctors doing two weeks of campaigning where they were only carrying out vaccination. I am very grateful to the family doctors for this work, because we really got a lot of new vaccinations.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U39	And now one further question, Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U40	Thank you, President-in-Office. Once again, Prime Minister, I would continue with their tests at school. There's been a lot of this mess. I understand you've now had some insight into how this company was chosen. In response, we have so far received the fact that, yes, yes, we have been so busy, so fast, and that is why it has been [made] without procurement and in breach of public procurement law, the money has been paid out and this company has been chosen. But it has now become apparent that already on 19 April, the reformist headmaster, the director of Tallina English College, has proposed such a pilot project at his school. He said: until the end of April, we offer students in the 4th, 9th and 11th grade of the English College the opportunity to participate in the pilot project of organising the study activities with rapid tests of COVID-19 antigens. The pilot has been selected from the Selfdiagnostics antigen rapid test. How do you comment on the fact that today the Minister of Education of the Reform Party claims that Selfdiagnostics was chosen because it was very quick, but in the spring already the reform party, how I say, was the school under the command of the same test piloted? Are you really saying that this [was] random?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U41	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U42	There are no schools like schools with reform party subordinates. In general, we have a local authority as a schoolkeeper, but there are also private school holders and there are state secondary schools that are run by the state. So there's no such thing. The Reform Party has nearly 12,000 members, and I really do not have an overview of what all members are doing somewhere, and could it be that the activities of some members might somehow coincide with [government plans]. Indeed, I am not responsible for all the members of the party and I cannot tie these things together in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U43	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U44	Let us move on to the next question. It is presented by Paul Puustusmaa, member of the Riigikogu, corresponding to the Minister of Health and Labour Tanel Kiik. And the subject will be the vaccine passports. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U45	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, My question to you is because the Health Board did not respond to my question. Maybe I don't know if the Health Board is working or not. But I didn't get the answers, and that's what's causing my question to you now, specifically. As we know, we have an obligation to check vaccine passports. If the state imposes an obligation to verify a certificate or document, the certificate or document must comply with the laws in force in Estonia. And the question is, which law specifically lays down the requirements for the form and content of the vaccine passport.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U46	Tanel swing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U47	Thank you. In fact, these COVID certificates, namely these health passports, the COVID certificates, are applied according to the decrees of the Government of the Republic, which in turn rely on the law, are then the Law on the Prevention and Control of Diseases or any other law in force in Estonia. Similarly, the necessary changes have been made, for example, to the basic regulation of the Health Information System, so as to be able to generate, display, issue such evidence both at the Tehnik's own request and, for example, to the Social Insurance Board, who is able to help people who, for some reason, do not actively use the Internet or have access to it. If you have some [specific] question, as you referred to here, about the law, it is, of course, possible to send it in writing. We can send this legal explanation. But, of course, these legal explanations are also found in government orders or their explanatory notes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U48	And now it's a very specific question. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U49	Yeah! I thank the Minister and understand that I will receive in writing the reference from which these formalities and content will be received. And from here also the clarification [pray], because these [claims] must be specified and we now have a procedure in which companies, institutions, gyms must check the evidence, the content and form of which I do not yet know exactly at the moment. It is clear that the person who controls this evidence, the vaccine passports, must be aware of the content, the form, whether it corresponds to reality, that does not correspond to reality. Where, in which law or act or standard are the requirements for vaccine passports, the examiners of these certificates? What requirements do they have to meet?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U50	Tanel swing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U51	Thank you. I assure you that the people of Estonia are smart, smart and capable. There has been no significant feedback that there have been problems with the verification of these COVID evidence. Similar evidence, as you are well aware, is actually being implemented by a number of European Union countries. This check can be carried out, for example, through the corresponding digital application developed by the Technical Service, and it is also possible, if we are talking about not a QR certificate, but a paper certificate, to check visually if a person does not have an official EU COVID certificate. According to the rules in force, the identity of the person is also checked, i.e. whether it is the person he presents himself to be. In general, I'm sure it is. As usual, all these controls [come from the fact that there is a small part of society, a very small part of society that tries to break the rules, to ignore them, to cooperate. We therefore need to control society as a whole in order to find these individual individuals and draw attention to their violations. Some kind of legal, as you said, requirements for these examiners have not been applied further. As a general rule, this inspector can be either a security officer of a particular institution, a customer service attendant, any other employee. This check does not require any very invasive procedure or medical record to be more familiar with than that which a person is prepared to report himself, for example to show his/her vaccination certificate or certificate of burnout or any other evidence that enables him/her to be introduced into [anyone]. But really, they haven't really been a problem. It could be said that it is quite effective and that the people of Estonia have received it quite well. In fact, we decided to create COVID's evidence already in the spring precisely in order to keep society open in the context of a pandemic if the spread of the virus increases, if the situation gets worse. And I think you must admit that this has actually succeeded the Estonian state and the Estonian people as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U52	And now one further question, as we agreed at the beginning. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U53	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. A number of people have expressed reservations as to why in Estonia so-called "corona hospitals" could not be used separately or even in the Defence Forces field hospital. People who have been in the hospital say that there has also been a debate about the fact that these people left in the COVID are often transported between different hospitals before they find a place for them anywhere. Why should one or a few specific hospitals not be made to do so? In terms of premises, I understand that we do not really have any concerns in Estonia; rather, there is a question of staff. Why, then, has this solution not been used? Has this been discussed? In this case, we could probably also have open or better guaranteed scheduled treatment if we could concentrate patients with COVID in a specific building. Or is it that a better [remuneration] way to deal with a patient with COVID still motivates hospitals to take in more of these patients? How about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U54	Tanel swing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U55	Thank you. That's a clear question. In fact, we had this debate most seriously, you can say, at the very beginning of the previous government when this pandemic began. Then we really asked the various medical managers to assess whether the Estonian hospital network would allow such a separate distribution that there would be COVID hospitals and non-COVID hospitals. At the time, feedback from all leading medical experts was that, unfortunately, this is not possible due to the reasons that I now describe. First, very many COVID-19 patients need several different treatments at the same time. Generally, these are people with comorbidities and are not enough to ensure specific relief of COVID-19 symptoms. A large number of them may require controlled breathing, intensive care, other medications, attention of other professional physicians, counselling and treatment services. We have such regional hospitals in Estonia, as we know, I am currently excluding the Tallinn Children's Hospital, who are dealing with the so-called offer of top medicine, two: the University of Tartu Hospital and the Northern Estonian Regional Hospital. Both have, in fact, been involved in the treatment of COVID-19 patients during the first, second and third waves, as it is simply not possible to direct persons with very serious need for treatment elsewhere. Second recital. If we had fewer patients with COVID, if we had a similar situation, as was the case, say, a year ago and at the beginning of autumn, it can also be said that during the summer months, both this year and last year, it was possible to dimme the distribution of the patients in such a way or to agree that they were mainly dealt with by infectious clinics, Western Tallinn Central Hospital, actually even central hospitals, such as Pärnu Hospital and Ida-Viru Central Hospital, and inevitably by the University of Tartu Hospital, because there are actually no central hospitals in the South Estonia region. This is also one of the peculiarities of the Estonian hospital network. At that time, the patients could be distributed mainly to the four centres that dealt with them and, if necessary, PERH and others came to the aid in the case of third-degree intensive care or, for example, cancer patients who could inevitably suffer from COVID-19. So the number of patients in hospital care has also set this limit, which is another criterion. One is the intensity, need and burden of treatment, the other is the number of hospital care patients, which has really caused the situation that we have hospitalised COVID patients also in general hospitals, or very small hospitals, which have opened up COVID departments. The alternative would really be to direct not only the sick to a specific hospital, but also the health professionals. For example, if we were to direct health care personnel from Põlva or Võru or Valga to all the University of Tartu Hospital, this treatment option would not happen in South-East Estonia. It would not result in more beds, but rather in an even more complicated logistical operation. So at the moment, we have been guided by what Estonia's health experts estimate optimal capacity. And if the number of patients in need of hospital care falls, surely the volumes of hospital care will increase again.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U56	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U57	Let us move on to question five. Sven Sester, member of the Riigikogu, answers Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. The issue is crisis management. Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U58	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! So we are here: you, me and the National Audit Office review of the management and follow-up of the crown crisis. I would like to ask you a question that relates mainly to communication and the movement of all information. I read this report from the National Audit Office and, frankly, I don't even know whether to cry or laugh. I quote to you: in the opinion of the National Audit Office, the prerequisite for avoiding communication cophony is first that decision-makers themselves understand what decisions they make, what they decided. And then further on, the Auditor General says that it is also necessary to know whether it was decided at all and what is particularly important, why it was decided why one or the other solution was made. These are relatively harsh words that have been pointed out here. And he goes on to say that often government decisions will not be understood later by people, entrepreneurs, institutions, and when they start asking someone, those they ask will also say that we are not much smarter than you. If you look at your speeches, what you have said over time, they actually add a little more so-called juice to this porridge and cabbage. You can also literally quote your own speeches. At some point in time, you have said, for example, in Vikerradio on 12 October, that you believe that if the planned treatment is to be restricted, unvaccinated people should be directed backwards. At one point, the day after you have realized that some counsellor has told you that this is probably not correct, and then you have said that no-no-no-no, I stress that these are just theoretical discussions and that is my personal opinion, as you have mentioned today. Well, one week and a half later, however, you have said in the Daily Paper that no-no-no-no, we should still think that we will take into account vaccination and non-vaccinability in the event of a planned restriction of treatment. I have a simple question for you: what's this mess about all the time? Today, you even stated that at one point you are Prime Minister, at another moment you are a personal voice. Explain, please, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U59	Thank you. You're a much better politician than I am. I made an appeal to the Auditor General so that he would look at it alongside the whole crisis. At first, we collected lessons from the first two waves. I recall that this government took office in the middle of the second wave, and we had to gather lessons from the first two waves. I asked the Auditor General to take a look at [the situation] from the outside and, while at this table, to present his observations. I turned to him in June. We learned our lessons in July, the Auditor General took a little longer and really, it is now a good tool in your hands. And that's what I ordered, so it's really really stupid. But all these lessons are still two-wave lessons. It is not only our government that has been in office, our government has been in office for nine months, before there was a previous government. And there have been many lessons given that this has been a completely new situation in which we have been. One more thing I would like to say is, of course, that you have been at the table of the cabinet yourself. You know how this job works. The Chancellor of Justice and the Auditor General also sit at that table as equals. The Chancellor of Justice works very closely with you, says constantly his comments, which we also take into account. The Auditor General does not express his opinion at the table. But, of course, afterwards, it's easier to judge these things. As for the planned treatment, I would ask you to quote me correctly. What I have said on 12 October, and what I have said later, is exactly the same. Planned treatment is decided by hospitals, hospitals decide who gets the treatment who doesn't. These decisions have never been made politically, even though doctors and hospitals have approached the Prime Minister to make these decisions now. But we have said that this is not a political issue and politicians cannot decide these things. But when I'm asked, I see this clear logic. There are two reasons for this, should scheduled treatment be limited, and some hospitals must. Planned treatment means that it is not an unavoidable help, but it is an operation that can be delayed and done sometime later. However, if the operation is at this height, when the virus is spreading very much, and it is the unvaccinated people who are going to be in hospitals who are going to have to limit scheduled treatment that makes sense that people who have behaved responsibly should receive urgent treatment in the past. Their order will not be delayed rather than a choice can be made. But as I said on 12 October and later on every day when it has been asked, that decision is made by the hospitals and the doctors themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U60	And now the point to be clarified. Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U61	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister! You started answering that question, that it was some kind of weapon in our hands. Listen, I am an oppositionist and, of course, you can say that the aim of the opposition should be to criticise the government and so on, but I am still quoting the Auditor General. And I think with all due respect, you expect him to be objective in his statements and he is not a representative of the opposition. I understand when you say he's in the government's office. At least your quote was now that the government [in the office] will shut up and there will not talk, after it is very convenient to say. Maybe I don't know what to say about it, and then you'll talk to the Auditor General about why he won't tell you anything. But the fact is that when we look at the current situation, what I tried to tell you on my question is that people do not exactly understand what decisions are made and why such decisions are made. The reasoning is, to put it mildly, incomprehensible. That was my first question. I will actually try to address my second question to this very report by the Auditor General. I see that you have been speaking less about previous governments lately. Understandably, you've been in government for nine months, and it would be strange to say all the time that this was the previous government. The first few weeks you could say that. You have now made a vaccination plan on 20 April and on 28 July you have made a vaccination plan. They're all right in here. Most of these goals are still outstanding. I remember, once in April, there was a white book that you adopted with a big bang. Now no one's talking about it right. Perhaps in a few words you will comment on what these steps are, how to meet these goals. Perhaps you can pay attention to this once here and, in fact, perhaps stop to why these objectives have not been met today, which the National Audit Office has also paid attention to. There is no point in talking about this cacophony on the first question [referred to], because we seem to have different truths. You're saying everything's very okay, and there's no need to pay attention to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U62	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U63	No, I didn't say it was okay. I have said that we have also collected these lessons ourselves and, even before we received the Auditor General's report, taken these lessons into account and reorganized our work accordingly. I have absolutely no doubt that the Auditor General is objective. That's why I turned to him to write down those lessons. But I was referring to the fact that writing lessons in this form has given you a great opportunity. But I totally understand that you're doing your job. Now the decisions. In the spring there was a complaint that people really do not know what choices are made, that the decision-making process is opaque. That is why we have made it more open: at the moment these options are on the table, we are considering these options. We've been meaning to explain this more. But you can criticize it the other way around. In the end, no matter what you do, you get criticism. But you better do something if you don't do anything. Vaccination plan. Yes, this plan has been made at the Ministry of Social Affairs and various steps have been taken to meet this objective. But what I'm saying is, it's really hard to jump over my shadow. The Eurobarometer carried out a study in May, where it assessed vaccine compliance in different countries, and it is interesting that, when compared to the levels at which the countries have stayed, it is quite one-to-one compared to what this study said in May. Maybe that's where it's really hard to achieve the goals. The point of our supposed retention was 57%. We've crossed it by today, but really, this last job is going to be really, really hard. Let me give you another example that does not change people's attitudes in six months. Why is it that, at the end of the vaccination coverage, there are still Eastern European countries and, unfortunately, we are among Eastern European countries too? Or if you look at the states of the United States, there are very clear differences. If you take one state's head of vaccination, you take him to another state, it doesn't really work because people's attitude to the vaccine is different. And that's what we actually have to deal with. If you look at it, there are still a lot of interesting studies. But what are we gonna do? We still have anti-vaccinating and we have people left who are afraid or hesitant about vaccination. We've taken different steps to overcome these doubts and to convince these people to vaccinate. But it all takes time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U64	And now one more question, Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Kaja Kallas! This is about crisis management. The problem is that your decisions on crisis management are contradictory. It's about wearing a mask. It is no secret that you are also advised by a member of the scientific council, Irja Lutsar, who in the spring of last year publicly stated that neither the mask protects against the virus because the virus particle is so small that it passes through it. You can't create a [protective] mask. On the contrary, he suggested in the autumn that we wear a mask, resulting in an increase in the number of infected persons. At the end of October, we began to wear. At the beginning of November, everything ran to the ceiling. And right now, you've decided again that we have to wear masks. Please name me the expert who has advised you that people should wear masks. That's point one. And please also send me this specific expert opinion in writing, on the basis of which it can be assessed that masks are useful, noting also, say, respiratory obstacles, bacterial contamination, dust particles, etc. experts know better. So please send me this expert opinion in writing and answer the question who is the expert who now considers wearing the mask to be useful.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U66	Thank you. A little interlude, a procedural question. Sven Sester, isn't anything working right now? Is there a problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U67	Thank you. No, everything works fine, but I have this problem about how we're going to proceed. The Prime Minister here said I was wrong to quote him, but, you know, I looked at these quotations once and I still have everything right [quoted]. All the quotes he's been saying on Rain Radio and all the quotations in the Daily Paper are very correct. How are we going to do now, do I have to forward these quotes to him in writing? Maybe you can help me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U68	Thank you for that question. It's not procedural, but I'm sure you'll have to help your colleagues. Let's come up with a good solution together and move forward step by step, together again. Now, I ask Prime Minister Kaja Kallas to answer Kalle Grünthal's question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U69	Thank you. The Scientific Advisory Board advises the Government and advises it; decisions are made by the Government. The Scientific Advisory Board does not make these decisions itself. Now, yes, very strong feelings are involved in wearing masks in Estonia. When I attended last week's UN climate conference, where I think there were over 140 heads of government, Heads of State, there was a great deal of talk about COVID and the different countries' approach to it. There was just such an interesting topic when talking to a couple of prime ministers that wearing masks in some countries is very annoying. But why did we bring back the masking duty? It is precisely at the request of health professionals. For example, studies have been carried out in Bangladesh: there were two villages where masks were carried in one area and no masks were worn in the other. And 10% less infection, however, was where the masks were. Healthcare workers say that when the mask is in the front and both people have masks in the front, because it is an aerosol infection, it cannot just reach another person, and that is why we can use the mask to reduce the infection. So it's been this starting point. I don't like the mask either, and I understand very well that it's uncomfortable for people and it's bad to wear. But on the other hand, if I have letters from health care professionals, for example, if a nurse working in a third grade ICU tells me how she has bruises from the masks they have to wear there, then it seems to me that there is still a small sacrifice for all of us to make when we put on a mask in public indoors when we're there. This way we can limit the spread of the contagious disease.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U70	Thank you. That is not the end of the question. Kalle Grünthal, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U71	Thank you, Mr President. I have now learned from Kaja Kallas that he is currently relying on a study of two villages in Bangladesh. And the second question is that this masking proposal has been made simply by the doctors, and that is it. Do I understand [rightly] that there is no expert opinion on this? And please allow Kaja Kallas to answer my question in writing. That prayer still stands, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U72	Thank you. You asked, the Prime Minister answered. I certainly will not put my hand forward if the Prime Minister wishes to give you any further clarification in writing. There's no way I can deny it. But there was a question, there was an answer to as good a question as he was, as a good answer as he was. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U73	Let's move on to question six. It is presented by Peeter Ernits, a member of the Riigikogu, answers Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, on the topic of local elections. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U74	Good manager! Prime Minister! In recent local elections, the Reform Party received 64459 e-voices and 20 or 30 of them come from people like Sergei Gorlatš. Sergei Gorlatš, although in his forties, is an old party worker. He has more than 20 years of political office in the Reform Party, he is the Head of the Narva Department of the Reform Party and the Executive Board of the Ida-Virumaa Region. Here's my question. No handwriting was on that he took people, old people to Toila's spa, there was a tour and a small meal, and then in the back of the bus there was a small Sergei Gorlatch or someone with his fighting partner's computer and it was done. My question is whether Sergei Gorlatš really acted independently or whether he was an old party worker trying to apply the methods discussed in the party. Have you spoken to Sergei Gorlach? Has his party membership been suspended or has he been expelled in the meantime?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U75	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U76	In the style you have, you will continue to bring specific cases to the Chamber of the Riigikogu concerning law enforcement bodies. We have separation of powers, we have legislative power, we have executive power and we have judicial power. If a person has committed a crime, he or she will be questioned. If suspicion proves true and proven, the man will be punished by the judicial authorities. And when the judgment has entered into force, a person shall be deemed to be punishable by criminal law. But as long as there is no verdict in force, there is a presumption of innocence and every person has the right to defend himself. I am certainly not going to comment separately on any case the facts of which are still being clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U77	No further questions... Sure. Please, Members of the Riigikogu, let us be more operational. We have agreed that it will be possible to ask a more specific question and an additional question, so give a signal in good time. Specific question, Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U78	Good manager! Sorry my finger wasn't so fast! But we'll come back to the laptop of Sergei Gorlach that was in the back of the bus, or it was his co-worker, a 66-year-old woman. Do you think it should be possible to find out where more e-voices come from than one family, for example, according to the IP addresses of these computers? For example, at this point it has been said that, according to this external IP address, it is not actually possible to seize more than ten votes, with more than a hundred votes, perhaps more than a thousand votes. Should it also be possible, Prime Minister, to go to the IP address of this particular computer and to make some order of the first 100 or a thousand, where there will be more e-voices and who will own these computers, for example, which members of the party? Is that a good idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U79	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U80	Thank you. We have a secret vote. This principle is written in the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, that voting is secret. The e-vote is secure, there is also a separate way of identifying people, voters in the e-voting system. You can use an ID card, digital IDs or mobile IDs. And if the voter finds that he can't trust [so given] vote in any way, then he'll always have a chance to re-elect on election day, going to the station. So there are a lot of possibilities created. Controlled solutions guarantee the security of e-voting in Estonia. It is constantly audited and, in this respect, it has not yet been established that there have been any irregularities. [There are] all kinds of doubts just as I know that five complaints have been lodged with the Republic Election Commission regarding local government elections related to e-voting. And in all five cases, the decision made by the electoral commission was appealed to the Supreme Court, as the law allows. In all five cases, the Supreme Court also dismissed the complaints, i.e. such doubts did not prove true.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U81	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U82	Let us move on to the next question. It is presented by Riigikogu member Heiki Hepner, meets the Minister of Health and Labour Tanel Kiik, the subject of the health crisis. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U83	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, Vaccination is part of the resolution of the health crisis. According to the Auditor General, the organisation of vaccination has failed, to put it mildly, and it is difficult not to accept this argument. The objectives of the vaccination aimed at achieving a specific level of coverage of the vaccine have not been met. Vaccination is not entangled as a result of a vaccine deficiency, but it is a reason to seek out weak coordination, poor organisation and confused and conflicting communication. As early as February, the Auditor General expressed his concern that we might welcome a situation in which the vaccine will gather on shelves and the ability to carry out large-scale vaccination in practice is becoming a problem. The achievement of the objectives set out in the vaccination plans is characterised by the achievement of only those objectives relating to the introduction of vaccination. According to the vaccination plan of 20 April, 70% of the population aged over 70 had to receive at least one dose by the end of April. No, I didn't. According to the vaccination plan of 20 July, at least one dose had to be achieved in adult vaccination by 22 September and 70% in full vaccination by 31 October. No, I didn't. A target of at least one dose level of 70% among young people was also established by 31 October. No, I didn't. Has the implementation of these objectives been hindered by the coalition partner, the Estonian people or anyone else, and do you also see any responsibility and role in achieving vaccination?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U84	Tanel swing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U85	Thank you, good questioner! Let's start from the beginning. First of all, when vaccination began, many experts actually thought that vaccination would be carried out at least twenty percent of the population, because only the risk group needed it. The primary vaccination plan also envisaged 50% of the adult population by the end of October! This level of ambition, of course, was raised later. When this Government of the Republic took office, he agreed to a target of 70% of adults by the end of the year. We will certainly do this, but in the current view, this goal too seems too low, because in reality, new strains have appeared in the meantime and coverage must be higher in order to ensure adequate protection. These objectives, which you listed, have all been achieved with a real delay, for example in 70+ or only 60+ age groups, with at least 70% coverage in both initial and final vaccination calculations. In the case of adults, the primary doses have indeed been achieved today by about 71%, and it will take a few weeks to complete to reach 70%. In the case of children, we are not so far away, in the age group of 16 to 17. It can be said that when we talk about these last, young people and adults, about 90 to 95% of the target has been met by the deadline each time, 5 to 10% of the total volume has not been completed. This, of course, is a pity, because there have been a lot of people working in the healthcare sector to do this, health institutions to do it. I guess there's a lot of reasons. We must have been quite gentle with our limitations this summer. We did not ask for the COVID certificate on as wide a scale as many other countries, for example Denmark first introduced the COVID certificate. We were perhaps not strict in different areas of life; we have left employers free to decide. And we have not imposed, by law or otherwise, a requirement that vaccination should be carried out in a specific area of life. Again, many countries have done so. We have rather gone the way of a good word and persuasion, the way of explanation, which is, I think, basically in the long run is still the right way for people to reach a health-conscious choice and still be vaccinated primarily on the basis of the indication of protection of life and health, not some kind of intense pressure or fear of loss of job. If we look at the European Union, these numbers are really very different. You indicated earlier that 70% of Estonia arrived late. However, seven European Union countries have not yet reached this point, so in fact, this bar is not easy to overcome. If we look at Europe as a whole, it can be said that about half of the European countries have not reached it. In fact, Estonia's vaccination is ahead of the European average, indeed about 9% behind the European Union average. We are certainly working to level the gap, and we have achieved this by a few percent in recent months and we will continue to make efforts. As a responsibility in this role, I see, of course, that we increase the coverage rate, both among the elderly and other risk groups, as well as among the general population. And in this I will continue to ask for the support of all parliamentary parties and society at large, as well as positive calls on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U86	Heiki Hepner, please, a more specific question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U87	Thank you very much. Good minister! The Prime Minister has said that the organisation of vaccination is an area of the Minister for Health and Labour and he is responsible. We have to agree to that. Vaccination plans exist, while the Auditor General has indicated that they have not been confirmed by the Minister. This, of course, gives rise to hesitation and suspicion that these are plans that we will do as much as we can, and if we do not get much, there is nothing too bad. It seems to me that it is actually convenient for both of us: the Prime Minister does not have to ask why we are in this state, why this job has not been done, and also does not have to look for a minister who can do the job. The Minister can say that, but look how much I have done, Europe is doing even less. We're so good, and we're not overemphasising. There are sometimes very different opinions with the coalition partner, but the common interest of both is, above all, the persistence of the coalition, not the overcoming of the health crisis and the increase in coverage with vaccination. And unfortunately, there's only one price. The cost of such comfort management is the life and health of our people, and there is no way to agree with it. Why do we have plans that we're not really going to implement? And if they seem unrealistic, they should be changed, not left as they are. According to the vaccination plan, 80% of the 60+ population should be vaccinated by 30 November. Is this plan still in force, and if it is not achieved, will there be any follow-up? Are you taking political responsibility or what happens then? Are you going to change these plans, or are we still going to do the best we could, but did we achieve less, as usual?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U88	Tanel swing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U89	Thank you. I'll start with your reproach. Certainly the government, and I very much hope, I am quite convinced that the main aim of the opposition parties too is to overcome this crisis, to eradicate it together. The persistence or failure of a coalition is secondary if we compare it to the protection of public health, to the preservation of people's lives. Vaccination numbers. As I referred to earlier, the objectives have been ambitious. They have often also come from rules agreed in the European Union. We know the difference, which, unfortunately, can be seen when comparing western and northern Europe versus the newer Member States that have joined at a later stage. There, coverage numbers are lower and the spread of infection and hospital care burden is higher. I'm sure the easiest thing to do would be to plan the numbers that we know we're jumping over them. Let's put 50 to 60% for all purposes, then I can come in front of you and declare that you saw, we did it, we did it with a spare. That's not the way we've gone. We have consciously set high targets, high targets, for which we actually know that they are achievable, but this really requires such a broad-based contribution, effort, also from all the parliamentary forces. And that requires clear public support for the vaccination process, not any strange demonstrations that confuse people, not any dissemination of conspiracy theories or any such counter-work. Reaching the 80% target by the end of November would require a very rapid increase. The coverage of older people is now at 73%. A simple calculation says that 90% of this target has been achieved. However, there really is still a need to ensure that coverage is as close as possible to 80%. In several counties this is already the case, which proves that it can be achieved. This requires the contribution of local governments, the contribution of residents, of course the contribution of the health system, who have done a great deal of work here. For example, the vaccination start of these family doctors really made 400 family doctor centres throughout Estonia vaccinate. Practically all family doctors, family doctors and family nurses continue to receive vaccinations for both the effectiveness doses and the initial injections. And here I again appeal to you for cooperation, to the public, to all the people who have elderly relatives, parents, grandparents, other relatives, maybe workmates who have not yet had a vaccination. Help them with advice, if necessary by explaining what these options are, where they can be vaccinated. And, of course, when people need health advice, their family doctor and family nurse are the main worry-stricken, explaining and also vaccinator to protect people's life and health. So the goal remains to reach 80% of the elderly. By the end of November, this will only be possible if the pace increases significantly. The current forecast and the pace show that we are probably missing a few percent of it, but of course we will make an effort to achieve it this year or at the earliest opportunity, we can say so, in any case. Because the high coverage of the elderly is a major risk-relieving factor so that the burden on hospitals does not increase and their lives and health are protected.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U90	Thank you. Helmen Küttt, now please have an additional question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U91	Thank you very much. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister for Health and Labour, You also participated today in the session of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, which focused on the situation in Estonian hospitals. Two crisis staff leaders spoke about the situation there as a whole, but also about the specific hospitals, and said that the situation was stable. In fact, they also expressed concern about the questions of the members of the Commission that, apart from the Crown virus and the COVID, there are [a number of other diseases] and people in need of regular care have been left behind. The 35,000 treatment cases that Dr. Talving described as the end of the year's prognosis do not exist. Behind each one is a person's concern, his own pain, his own illness. My question is: will these cases be transferred to the next year? As people, of course, they will be carried because people need help, but will this also be reflected in next year's spending on funding? Will these come in addition to the planned funding so far? Perhaps, in the same question, you can also reassure the Estonian Medical Association, who has submitted his address on the question of funding. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U92	No, I'm sorry. I'm just gonna... There was still time. You want to ask me more? 37 seconds. No? Please, Tanel Swing!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U93	Thank you. Indeed, the situation of hospitals is stable and difficult. One way of saying this is that the fall in infection also gives them, of course, hope and clearly predictable assurance that the number of patients in need of hospital care will fall in the coming weeks. This also means that these interim escalation plans, which are in many ways not yet in force, both at health emergency level 3 and the opening of additional COVID-19 beds, are most likely to be cancelled or delayed. I hope very much not to postpone, but I will always say no. We will hopefully not need it, which would mean an even more extensive restriction of scheduled treatment. Now the other side. The order of the planned treatment in Estonia is long enough, we know that well. Of course, the issue is, in many respects, the resources of the health professionals from whom we expect these receptions to be made, the operations to be carried out. Of course, enough funding must be found through the sickness fund. We have talked about this with hospitals, and also with the Health Insurance Fund, that, of course, if these treatment volumes were not able to be done this year and something is being pushed to the next year, then there must also be money. It is certainly not the aim of the Health Insurance Fund to raise the state reserve on health care, saving health care money, but it was still the maximum amount of money to be used to satisfy people's medical needs. And that is why we certainly need to make changes to the budget. Some changes have already been made, both due to COVID-19 and to enable e-services, remote consultation or other services, for example, during the COVID crisis. The second half of the question referred to the referral of the Doctors' Association. Of course, if the COVID-19 pandemic continues, additional funds for hospitals will have to be found if the hospital peak is to continue. This has been done both by the previous government, [disbursing money] from the government reserve, with an additional budget, and twice by the health insurance fund's reserve capital. Now the Government of the Republic has been proposed freshly, and we have already approved it at the meeting of the Cabinet. So it can be said that it is a question of formalisation that 11,79 million more would be allocated specifically to the COVID-19 departments and to these hospitals for restructuring the medical work. Of course, this money is primarily intended for salaries, bonuses, overtime and other incentives for healthcare workers in a situation where we expect people to work under heavy pressure and often to stay away from home on a weekend. I assure you that if the COVID-19 pandemic continues next year, we will also find additional resources. These coefficients must in any case be guaranteed. Understandably, working in the COVID-19 department for the current highly contagious delta virus strain is, in any case, an intensive work, which is more dangerous than normal medical work. And we often assume that there will also be calls for employees from other departments whose regular work is not dealing with infectious diseases. So I'm sure there must be financial motivation. The fact that the government remained in the state budget...... was due to the unpredictability of the situation and not the desire to leave the money unallocated. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U94	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U95	Let's move on to question eight. It is presented by Kalle Grünthal, member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. The issue is vaccination. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U96	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Kaja Kallas! Just as Estonia has its own Internet site, the WHO also exists. And this WHO Internet site has a very interesting document in 2019 and it states on page 10 that the UN + WHO will carry out at least two system-wide training and simulation exercises, one of which will involve the release of a deliberately released deadly respiratory pathogen into the environment, the second wave of which must be spreading by September 2020. And as history shows, it's actually what happened. On page 26, it can be read that the Heads of Government must appoint a national high-level coordinator with authority and political responsibility for the attitude of government and society as a whole, in order to regularly conduct multisectoral simulation exercises and maintain effective preparedness. There is still a detailed timetable for a longer period and it is absolutely identical to what has happened. And the important issue is, to sum up, what time frame is that these 103 countries, including Estonia, are using fears around COVID-19 to promote top-down social control regulations, including strict travel restrictions, future cash substitution with "sanitary electronic cash," compulsory vaccination, unlimited monitoring, etc. My question: who is this national high-level coordinator in Estonia? Please, name!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U97	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U98	He who coordinates the health crisis is the Minister of Health. That could be the answer, but since I still have time, I'm going to answer more broadly. Preparedness for pandemics and these various exercises or exercises in order to cooperate on it began to be thought of a few years ago. I'm just reading a book about a pandemic in America. It starts with the President of the United States reading a book about the Spanish flu and how it worked the world and took the lives of 50 million people after the attack on the twin towers. And so he asked if America was prepared for such a pandemic. Let me just remind you that they had just this terrorist attack and a lot of other concerns about it. The president instructed that such a plan be drawn up in order to be prepared in case of a pandemic. But the problem with all these plans is that real life is going to be much more multilayered than these plans are going to be. As they say, the gods laugh when people make plans. [[The Juhate is ringing the bell.]] But, of course, it's better if these plans exist, not that there are no plans.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U99	And now the point to be clarified. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U100	Thank you. As I understand from your reply, Mr Kallas, Estonia has joined this simulation exercise and the high coordinator on the Estonian side is Tanel Kiik in carrying out this simulation exercise, which aims, as I said, to impose strict restrictions on travel, in future replacing cash with sanitary electronic cash, compulsory vaccination, unlimited monitoring and restriction of individual freedoms, banning political protests, monitoring contacts that can identify people who refuse to test and vaccinate. I am very sad to note that our heads of government and our coordinator, Tanel Kiki, have taken such a role from the WHO. My question now is that, given the suffering of people who have left their lives or suffered permanent health damage through this simulation exercise, this house of cards will eventually collapse. Do you, Tanel Kiik and Kaja Kallas, who are in charge of this process in the government, also stand ready to take responsibility, I dare say, for this genocideal activity?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U101	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U102	You know, I looked at the face of your party chairman while you were presenting this theory. Even he had an embarrassing thought flight, and not even a full moon. In Estonia, the Minister of Health is responsible for this health crisis or is involved in managing this health crisis. I don't know what you're talking about, and what plans or pictures you're painting for us. Please don't mix up all the stuff now. It's very difficult for me to go along with your busy thought flights because they seem to have no connection to real life.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U103	Thank you. Before we can go any further, it's a procedural question. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U104	I have a procedural question for you, George Ratas. You have just heard a question here where the Prime Minister and Tanel Kiike were accused of carrying out genocide in Estonia. A few briefings ago, I happened to be here when you intervened when Kaja Kallas dared to talk about a full moon and interesting thoughts about it. You asked for respect. Shouldn't this kind of playing with the concept of genocide lead to you interfering and saying sharply that such nonsense is not being taken out of your mouth in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U105	Thank you. I completely agree that such comparisons should not be drawn with such horrors. But I'll intervene if there's not enough silence in this room. When the Prime Minister answered, I look at your side as well, there was a very loud noise when there was a communication with a member of your Riigikogu on your left hand. I asked the Prime Minister to answer. So I'm still trying to get involved. But I agree that you really can't bring that parallel. But let's keep going. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U106	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good Prime Minister! Of course I have to say that I'm never embarrassed about other people, I'm only embarrassed when I've done something that's embarrassing. I would like to come back to the subject of vaccination. The Reform Party proposed that the Reform Party Group propose to the Riigikogu to go to teleworking. This concerns you in particular, as head of the Reform Party, but also the Head of Government. The group proposed teleworking and the justification was that the epidemic situation in Estonia is very dangerous and we should set an example. Now, in my opinion, the Riigikogu has set an example, especially if we try to get it into these messages in any way, well, if anyone understands what these messages are that come from the government to vaccinate society as much as possible. Vaccination was supposed to be what's gonna help us keep society going. Both ambassadors and workers have been vaccinated in the Riigikogu at more than 90%, and the few who have not been vaccinated have actually suffered. Despite this, 62 members of the Riigikogu, primarily under the leadership of the Reform Party, but also supported by the Centre Party, decided that vaccination would be of no use, that the 90%-vaccinated collective would still be exposed to the korona and go to teleworking. Now, your government, your ministers have fired defence forces, policemen, doctors, nurses, this has led, by the way, to a crisis in hospitals to force them to vaccinate. And the reason has still been that vaccination helps keep society open. With the decision of yesterday's Riigikogu, it has become clear that no, vaccination does not help to keep anything open. This is actually, on the contrary, a very clear message that vaccination or vaccination is still a closed society. Do you also agree with the approach taken by your political party here? And do you not see that this leadership of your group has declared a failure of your vaccination policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U107	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U108	Thank you. The Riigikogu has the right to self-regulation, to organise its own work. The Riigikogu can decide how it organises its work. We have recommended teleworking in the government, because the spread of infection is currently at a very high level. If the spread of the infection is very high, then because we don't have a very high level of vaccination and because there's a lot of virus, he'll just break through the vaccine defense. In order to cut through the infection chains and bring the virus under the background, it is recommended that contacts be reduced by at least 30%. So if the spread of the virus is extensive, there's a suggestion to reduce the contact. And I also want to say that everything is open in Estonia. We don't have anything closed. It's all open, it's all working, and it's because we have so many vaccinated people. At this point, I am grateful to all those who have acted responsibly. I don't know if it came today, but there's a medical checkup that says nicely how many vaccinated people prevent at least one person from getting infected. 22 people prevent one person from being infected, 32 vaccinations prevent one person from being treated, 153 vaccinations prevent the death of one person and 304 vaccinations prevent the need for hospital treatment and 1054 vaccinations prevent the need for intensive care. So, as they say, every thorn counts. All those who have played their part in bringing the virus under the background and preventing the deaths of people to the hospital are very grateful.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U109	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U110	Now, good members of the Riigikogu, if you have any questions, please ask these questions. I have a request that you tell me who this question is going to be before you ask the question. As you can see, the members of the Government of the Republic of Estonia the Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, the Minister of Health and Labour Tanel Kiik and the Minister of Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse are all in front of you. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U111	Thank you. First of all, I need to comment a little on what I heard here. Martin Helme's final question: the Riigikogu has decided to go to a remote hearing. Actually, that's not really the case. The Riigikogu has decided that we can be in the hall or be behind the computer from today. It's not a coercion. We, Martin, Helle-Moonika, I can see Peter Ernitsa here now, but we can also be behind the computer. It's not a coercion. And actually, this is my question: how the EKRE has come to the point that, as things are now being recommended in the country, something is being offered, they think it is coercive and it must be combated. Vaccines are offered, it's a forced vaccination, we'll fight it. That's what EKRE says. There is an opportunity to attend a hybrid session in the Riigikogu, whether or not to come to the Riigikogu depending on how you feel or how you feel about others, whether you are afraid or not to be infected or spread the infection. It's freedom, it's an opportunity. I don't understand why we're fighting this very hard. But I have a specific question and I will ask Kaja Kallas. I forgot to say it at first, but now I'm gonna say it. Echo, can you tell me what's going on with this Kõlva? Why are there massive infections in this county? County leaders groan and whine that the state has to decide something, the government should decide something, lock the whole country, but it's a long list of events. I was watching it too. There's an event chasing the other one. Would it not be easier for those who are responsible for one county or another to impose these restrictions on the ground by... (The President calls) the watch. )
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U112	Time! Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U113	Yeah, thanks! From the knee so much that, indeed, Põlva made an appeal to the government, which I immediately called the Põlva Crisis Committee and we looked into their situation, we contacted both the local hospital and the Head of the Health Board and also the local government. And indeed, I, too, took the Internet, and there came up three pages of various events that were granted local government permission. Põlva has given permission to organise these events, so Põlva can also cancel these events. My strong recommendation to them was that if the virus spreads so extensively in Põlva and the level of vaccination in the county is much lower than in other counties, the first thing that can be done is to cancel the big events. But on top of that, the head of the local government said no, we still wouldn't want to cancel them. The local Head of the Health Board also supported this and confirmed that they have repeatedly recommended that please cancel these events. It seems to me that it tends to be that no one wants to make unpopular decisions, and it may not be very popular to cancel these events in Põlva. But while it is the widespread spread of the virus in Põlva, these events simply have to be canceled there. Yesterday we had a meeting with the Crisis Committee of South Estonia, where other municipalities and hospital managers were represented, and this recommendation was made there too. That is what the hospital representatives have just said: the first thing: cancel these events when the spread of infection in the area is very high. But there was also the question that if there is such a wide spread of infection in one region, whether the local authority has done enough to invite people to vaccinate, has it created opportunities to vaccinate near home? We allocated money to local governments to do this so that they could use it for this very purpose. There are older people who can't come to the vaccination centers. So, for our part, we have provided all the necessary resources, and everyone in this crisis must play their part. In fact, local authorities also have a number of tools to specifically control the virus in the area.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U114	I will conclude on this issue. Helmen Hunter, please! So much for me to say that the introduction may be one minute and 59 seconds, but it doesn't have to be that long, it can go straight to the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U115	This one minute and 59 seconds isn't after your introduction.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U116	It's-it's-it's-it's on. You have two minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U117	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr Tanel Kiik, Minister for Health and Labour! I have a question for you, and I hope you noticed that the media has been talking about this. In my country, Viljandi, the head of a welfare institution is very concerned about the shortage of workers. It would have used relief workers from a third country, Ukraine specifically, but there is no such option because they would have needed to be paid significantly higher wages than their current employees. He pointed out the figures: EUR 1400 should have been paid to those who would have replaced them, and the salary of their employees at the institution is EUR 800.900. Of course it's gross. Has the subject ever been a speech? You are also the Minister of Labour, according to the title, has it been discussed that, for example, in health care and social welfare, maybe make exceptions? Or has it not been discussed at all and will not be discussed? Actually, that's a problem I was asked to pass on to you. I'm taking this opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U118	Tanel swing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U119	Thank you. This subject is very familiar. In this case, if we wanted to solve these situations temporarily with migrant workers, this would require a change in the law, would require certain jobs, seasonal work in certain sectors or some other distinctions that I do not consider realistic. Nor can we possibly adequately justify that social work is a seasonal work here, that is not the connection. This is still a year-round service requirement. If you ask what I see as a solution, I have also said it before, this is my position, not the government's position, that a care insurance tax should be introduced, which would provide an adequate increase in long-term care financing, that sufficient support should be provided to people in paying the place-of-care allowance and, at the same time, that they should pay a decent salary to their employees there. That would certainly motivate more people to come to work than today. There is no doubt that there is a labour crisis in the care sector. This work is both mentally and physically very exhausting and even more dangerous and riskier than usual under the conditions of virus spread. After all, a carer can also be an elderly person, who inevitably thinks about protecting his own health. Now the question is, has this been discussed? The health and social sectors are somewhat different here. You are probably well aware that, in the area of health, wage claims have not been a place of concern. Rather, there has been a question of certain qualification criteria. In particular, hospitals in the Ida-Virumaa region have wondered whether it would be possible, under certain conditions, to bring highly qualified workers from other countries in a situation where there are not enough health workers who have been educated in Estonia. Of course, there are, in fact, certain mechanisms for this, both at European Union level and at a broader level. This requires the acquisition of certain qualifications on the ground or the obtaining of certain certificates, a sufficient level of knowledge of the national language requires that the service can be provided. It's basically possible, but there's a long and complicated procedure. I have been approached with this subject. Social welfare institutions and local authorities, who are care homes keepers, have not really come with this concern that care workers need to be brought in from abroad. And I honestly say that my position or position is rather that in health care, but even more so in the social sphere, despite the fact that I am before you today as Minister of Health, you should simply find enough extra money to offer a decent salary, a motivating reward for our own people. And, as you are well aware as former Minister for Social Protection, it was probably your place of residence at the time, that it would certainly be important to offer more different home services and extend the range of long-term care services so that there would not be such a great need for large nursing homes and their expensive service.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U120	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U121	Thank you. I'd like to ask Kaja Kallas. First of all, of course, I should correct some of the untrue facts in your previous reply to me. Not every thorn counts! Your government fired 46 members of the Defence Forces who refused to play a part in this game, that we had a voluntary vaccination. And not all the agencies are open, one of the institutions called Sparta has been shut down. And as for this claim that the Riigikogu is autonomous and does what it wants, and you do not know anything about it, so you are still the leader of the party. I still remember the time when I was in the government and Estonia was well-governed. Then the political group of our party still asked the leader of the party before the group took any votes or undertakings, whether the leader of the party would agree. But all this beautiful statistics, which were read out here, that how many vaccinations are worth to anyone, well, I'm not going to comment any further on these statistics here. 1054 must have been a number to prevent, I don't know what. Well, we don't have 1054 people working here in the Riigikogu. We have about 300 and 95% of them have been vaccinated. And like I said, those who aren't, are mostly over, so we're almost 100 percent safe here. Nevertheless, the Reform Party insists that the current level of spread of infection is so dangerous that it is reasonable for the Riigikogu not to work. It is a common recognition that vaccination does not protect against infection, no matter how the sickness fund matches these numbers. It's a one-on-one confession. So I don't know what chains we're creating here at our 95% vaccination rate, but we can only stop them if you admit that vaccination doesn't help against the corona. Is that what you admit?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U122	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U123	Thank you. Maybe you don't call it the job that's going on here. You sit here and I see other members of the Riigikogu, and in general the Question Time has been part of the work of members of the Riigikogu so far. So the statement that the Riigikogu is not working , in my opinion, as a result of an empirical observation, can be said that this is not quite true. It's totally working. That's another thing. You're talking about 50 members of the Defence Forces who have been fired. Again, looking at the numbers, you might want to increase them. In principle, 34 people have been released as of 19 October, 20 of whom are active troops and 14 have been employed on the basis of an employment contract. According to the risk analysis, the Defence Forces have done so. And if we look at more numbies, you say that vaccination does not protect, but the Defence Forces is just a good example. If we take another wave with COVID-positive Defence Forces 82 and the isolation was to remain in 471 people, then this ratio was 1:6. And if we take now, as of September 15, where the vaccination rate was 90%, the COVID positives were 27 and isolation was 42 people, so that ratio was 1:17. After all, these numbers speak the language that vaccination works. Now, I'm gonna go back to the medical research. They talk about how much money goes into COVID's treatment, but they show very clearly: the biggest risk factor in the need for expensive hospital care is non-vaccination. Unvaccinated people have taken 95% of the resources for COVID-19 treatment, i.e. the greatest benefit of vaccination is that it reduces the need for hospital care. Nearly five times less hospital care money goes to vaccinated people, nearly six times less intensive care money, and more than two times less likely to die. In addition to vaccination, the severity of the disease is affected by age. If we look now, the average COVID patient is 70 years old. Second, [the risk factor] is male gender and comorbidity. These are factors that increase the chance that even if you have been vaccinated, you will still have a severe problem with this disease because you also have other illnesses. However, based on the information provided by the health insurance fund, vaccination is definitely needed to reduce the need for hospital care.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U124	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Let's move on. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U125	Thank you. My question goes to good Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. You did a great deal of talking here about cutting through the viral chains and reducing conflicts, how important this is and that the first thing is to cancel the big events and that Põlva must take responsibility. I clearly see bipolar or even tripolar action in making important decisions, the background of which is often not clear. At a time when the epidemiological situation is said to be so bad that even the Riigikogu was sent to teleworking on a proposal from the Reform Party, the government has exceptionally authorised the Black Night Film Festival to organise a major event. We are hearing for a long time that nurses and doctors are on the verge of collapse, scheduled treatment has been suspended, doctors are threatening the sick in hospitals with triage, i.e. essentially not helping Estonian people and assigning them to death. And now we see that thousands of people are kindly allowed indoors for hours. Vaccination, as we know, does not mean that infection or transmission of the virus is prevented. There are also galas where food and drink are administered and where people do not wear masks for this reason. With all due respect to the film people and PÖFF: why was such a decision made in the current situation? Why is there an unequal view of other activities that might be just as important, but they do not receive a special permit as PÖFF did?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U126	I have a request to all of us for a moment: let us not deal with these so-called diagnoses or references to them in this Chamber of the Riigikogu! Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U127	Thank you. First of all, I don't think long-distance work is to be disparaging in any way. Remote work is possible, thanks to the digital state, and is used by a large number of companies, if this possibility exists and if the spread of infection is high. Now, the special permission of PÖFF is granted on condition that, if there are any further restrictions, different steps have been clearly agreed in cooperation with the Health Board, which will be taken by the organiser of the event. PÖFF will then be able to organise its own event in accordance with these conditions. The Black Nights Film Festival is very signicant, it has been a very important festival that has brought Estonian film to the world scene. As far as Põlva is concerned, Põlva turned to the government to shut down everything because of the spread of the virus. If there is a way to approach things regionally, we will try to approach things regionally. And my question was whether the local government has done everything in its power to prevent the spread of the virus. If the local authority issues an event management permit which does not require the approval of the government if it issues these permits, it may also not issue them. And if the virus is spreading widely in Põlva, then the local government should feel responsible and not give permission to organise the corporals and other major events that bring people together. As far as major events are concerned, I would like to say one more thing that the acting Head of the Health Board pointed out. It was that the organisers of major events have actually acted in a very responsible manner and have done even more than they are expected to do in order to ensure health safety. For example, in addition to the fact that only vaccinated people, people with COVID evidence, can access the events, additional testing has been organised to identify if someone should carry the virus. And all the staff have been vaccinated.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U128	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U129	Good manager! And once again, Prime Minister! My question is, after all, about your head of Narva Division, Sergei Gorlach's keiss. Well, it's clear that Sergei Gorlatch had those 20 votes or more transferred to his account on the computer that was in the back of the bus. I don't think he let Katri Raig wear them, but I don't even care. I ask whether you support my proposal that there may be, as is the case, specific computers from which, for example, more than ten e-voices or more than 100 e-voices have been given. And I stress, I don't care now who's been given those ten votes or more than 100 votes, but just for the sake of clarity, so we know what computers they are, where more than one or two e-voices come from. Do you support this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U130	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U131	Thank you. It seems clear to you, and in your world, maybe the law enforcement authorities don't need to investigate anything at all. But if I listen to you, there's a question of how you can be so clear. Were you there? In case you were there, you have valuable information that you should share with the law enforcement authorities to find out the truth in this case. I would be very careful about cases such as those which do not concern Parliament in a specific form of speech. After all, this is a question that has been put to man. We have a presumption of innocence. A person has the right to defend himself. According to the Constitution, a person must not be considered guilty of a criminal offence until a judgment has entered into force. In the meantime, a person can defend himself. And I would say that the presumption of innocence is for the protection of all of us, and the court must make decisions based on evidence, and only then can we draw concrete conclusions, point the finger at someone, and say with certainty that this was the case. If you were there, please go to the police, let me know your information, testify, and so you can be a part of this process.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U132	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Question Time is over. I apologise to the procedural questioners, unfortunately they cannot be dealt with anymore. Thank you, honourable Members of the Riigikogu, for your questions. I thank the members of the government for their answers. Thanks to the viewers! Question Time's over.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U133	Ladies and gentlemen, on this side of the screen! We will start the 7th working week session of the VI plenary session on Wednesday. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U134	On behalf of the Isamaa Group, I submit to the procedure the Riigikogu's decision "Proposal to the Government of the Republic to create a Fund for Compensation for Damages Caused by the Side Effects of Vaccinating the Corona Virus" [proposal]. As you know, this foundation has been discussed for a long time. Several European countries have already set up this fund. Both our neighbours, Latvians and Finns, have set it up and launched it. With Finns, this practice is longer and has justified itself in every way. Unfortunately, the Government of the Republic of Estonia has not reached any decision on this issue. We understand that there are also differences within the coalition, but we have not heard convincing arguments as to why such a fund should not be created. On the contrary, it would certainly be necessary to create this, in particular, in order to ensure that people who have any negative effects on vaccination receive assistance. When the government calls for active vaccination, the government and public authorities also take some co-responsibility and give a message that they are dealing with the problems and concerns of all people, and that they also provide a helping hand for those who are expected to experience these interactions. Current practice in other countries shows that these interactions are very rare and should not be burdensome for the country. So this should also be a viable undertaking for the Estonian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U135	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U136	Dear Vice-Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby hand over the draft signed by four members of the Riigikogu, which is due to one thing. It has been a long time since the birth of the Republic of Estonia, and this has led to a situation where one and the same subject has been described in a number of laws. In fact, the legislation of the Republic of Estonia needs to be regulated. Above all, it concerns the Nature Conservation Act, the Forest Act, the Planning Act and others. The Beach and Coast Protection Act was passed in 1995. The Nature Conservation Act was adopted in 2004. The Forest Act was adopted in 2006. They often duplicate each other, increase administrative burdens and cause unnecessary confusion. I myself, Peeter Ernits, Erki Savisaar and Andres Metsoja are the authors of the bill. I hope that the Riigikogu will deal with this bill calmly and in a common sense, because, as you can see, concerns about these matters are common. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U137	I don't see any more words. I have adopted two drafts, and the Bureau will decide nicely how they will be dealt with in accordance with our Rules of Procedure. Now we're conducting a presence check. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U138	81 members of the Riigikogu registered. So, ladies and gentlemen, a little clarification on today's agenda. In fact, on the sixth item on the agenda, the draft law amending the Employment Contracts Act and the Tax Administration Act 403 at second reading, we have changed the Commission's rapporteur. This report is made by Urve Tiidus. After this little clarification, we will begin a review of today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U139	The first item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Act on the Social Democratic Party Group and Raimond Kaljulaid, a member of the Riigikogu, on the amendment of the Pre-School Children's Institution Act 415. Please introduce Eduard Odinets on behalf of the initiators of the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U140	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, As has been announced, I have the honour to introduce to you the draft law amending the Pre-Study Children's Institution Act, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group and the Social Democrat Raimond Kaljulaid. 415. But before I go to the bill, let me say a quote. The quote is as follows: "As a society, we have agreed to value raising children. Through parental benefit, we provide families with a sense of security during their first years of life, the Reform Party governments have raised child benefits and created support for a family rich in children. However, we have one stage of the child's life that parents have to pay for. This is the moment when the child goes to kindergarten, and parents have to pay the place fee for the kindergarten. The more children, the more expensive it is. This is the right signal for all mothers and fathers when the country takes on the role of parents. " So said our esteemed Prime Minister of the Reform Party, Kaja Kallas. Indeed, it is high time to give a signal to all mothers and fathers that the state agrees, that it is ready to take on the share of parents in the [child's] kindergarten, or pre-school facilities, of [going to] children's homes. At the moment, § 27 (3) of the Pre-school Children's Institution Act states that local governments may charge up to 20% of the minimum wage established by the Government of the Republic as the place fee for kindergarten. I'm pointing out it's a place payment. This is complemented by other costs that parents have to bear, including food costs, which are not too low. Since setting the amount of the place fee, i.e. its rate and conditions, is the exclusive competence of the municipality, this has led to very large differences across Estonia. The explanatory memorandum is accompanied by a table prepared by the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. This is a comparative overview of how this place fee has developed in the local governments of Estonia. There is a clear difference in fees between municipalities. The amount of the place fee, the benefit or the exemption depends on a specific municipality, but also on the registration of the residence of parents, the number of children attending [in a child's institution] from one family, the financial situation of the family, etc. Rare cases are not all over Estonia, if even one municipality has different rates in children's institutions depending on kindergarten. In many places, families with two or more children in child care receive benefits. In some places, the second child can walk at half the price, the third one free, for example, but in most municipalities, however, this place fee has been established and established as a fixed percentage of the minimum wage, as promised by law. In a number of discussions, both in this Chamber and in other auditoriums, it has been repeatedly said that linking kindergarten fees to the minimum wage is neither right nor appropriate. When the minimum wage rises, there will also be a mechanical rise in the place fee, as we will certainly see in very many municipalities on 1 January. Quite a number of municipalities, in particular, settle on the upper limit allowed for so-called "foreign children" or for those who do not have so-called "entry" in this particular municipality. Now, from some of the numbers you see in this table. This is 15% of the minimum wage in Tartu, for example. Along with food costs, this is well above EUR 100 per month. Tallinn currently has more than 70 euros, the new year will be more than 90 euros. For example, if there are two children in kindergarten, this amount is currently over EUR 140 and is going to be over EUR 180. Of course, food money is added to all of this, as I said, but also [remuneration] for children's interest groups, for their activities [participation], which parents also have to bear in order to ensure their children's full development. The second group of municipalities has set the spot fee as a fixed amount. There is probably no difficulty in paying a place fee in Rakvere municipality, for example, where it is five euros, or in Peipsiääre and Võru municipality, where it is ten euros. But it seems particularly generous in their context, for example, that Kanepi municipality, where both the kindergarten place and the children's food in kindergarten are completely free of charge for the children of its municipality. For those officially admitted to another municipality, this amount is EUR 10 per month plus food money. However, there are no such numbers in most municipalities. Not all municipalities support their families with such generous hands. If you look at this table, which is included in the explanatory memorandum, you will see that differences can be tenfold across Estonia. Studies also show that the higher the proportion of preschools in the municipality, the greater the total cost of the day-care centre is covered by parents. This adds huge regional inequalities to the material stratification of families. The desire and proposal of the Social Democrats is to create the same opportunity for all children across Estonia to go to kindergarten and receive high-quality early childhood education under the hands of teachers. The point is that no child is left in kindergarten because of the financial situation of the family. No child should remain because parents do not have sufficient resources without pre-school education, because it is the pre-school development of the child that lays the foundation for his/her learning and social skills, being a fundamental and integral part of the whole of his/her education. It was today that we discussed the future prospects for higher education in the Higher Education Support Group. One example that was given there was that, in fact, inequalities in higher education are due to inequalities that started earlier, already at the kindergarten level, at the basic school level, at the upper secondary school level. We talk about Estonia's success story very much about the fact that we have education free of charge. Yes, indeed, there is no tuition in comprehensive school. But in kindergarten, somehow we're asking for the money from the kids and their parents. Vocational education is mostly free of charge, upper secondary school is free of charge, higher education is fortunately still free of charge. But early childhood education, which is the basis for all subsequent levels of education, still gets us in some places for a pretty crisp amount of money. It is our wish to exempt all parents from the place fee across Estonia and to compensate for the minimum amount that local governments are missing from the state budget. The exact scheme, the exact allocation mechanism could be established by the Government of the Republic according to the draft. We can see that the problem is, because about 10% of children who are at the age are not in kindergarten. We may think that there may be other reasons than economic ones, but most children who do not attend kindergarten do not do so because of social problems. But even 10% of children who do not have early childhood education, who are excluded, are concerned by both the social democrats and, in fact, by educational scientists in several articles [of this concern]. We hope that the organisation of things that we offer with our draft will increase the availability of early childhood education, underline its importance, reduce the economic burden on parents, ensure equal access to early childhood education and, therefore, a more equal start-up platform for all children, and reduce educational stratification at the beginning of education. That is why we think it would be important for the country here, like at all other levels of education, to take this on its own. There are a lot of topics here that relate to regional inequality, [you can see it] if you look at this table. Of course, our concern is also that the cost of life in different regions of Estonia and the possibilities in all corners of Estonia are more equal than they are now. So we ask the Riigikogu, if possible, to support the draft of the Socialists and Raimond Kaljulaid, to which our current Prime Minister has already referred in several speeches and articles. Thank you. I'd be happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U141	They're going to be the start of Paul's Pulp Land. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U142	Thank you very much, Mr President. Eduard, can you tell me that? In itself, the idea that the place fee is as low as possible or absent at all is understandable and understandable, in itself this logic. But what is the reason for the desire to push this competence or to impose a central decision on the government and the Riigikogu? If the authority to change this place fee is in the hands of the local government, why do they want to centralise it? Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U143	The competence to organise early childhood education in their territory remains with local authorities, they must provide children with kindergarten facilities or other childcare facilities, as required by our legislation, and they must also compensate for certain costs for parents. But we can see that not all municipalities take this seriously enough. There are still a great many municipalities that take the last one from their parents and almost maximise this possible place payment on their parents' shoulders. We see that the state could intervene here, the state could come to the aid and say that early childhood education must be equally accessible everywhere in Estonia and the state is ready to take on this cost so that accessibility, accessibility and opportunities are equal everywhere in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U144	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U145	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! The aim is noble and I do not think anyone would like to vote against this principle here. But that's what I'm asking you. The bill states that it will be reimbursed to local authorities. We know that some time ago, kindergarten teachers' wage subsidy was allocated to municipalities, which has remained at the same level for years. You and I were together at a seminar on funding for higher education this morning, where we found that the funding has remained at the same level for years. If we fix this amount today, in five years' time, we will say that the local governments will not receive that amount again. How can this risk be mitigated?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U146	Thank you for that question. As we say in the draft, these exact terms, formulas and distributions, depending on children, kindergarten services and municipal costs, should be laid down by the Government of the Republic in its decree. He should, in our view, also provide for some indexation there, as is the case with indexation in higher education and other areas. The question is, as we did this morning, that the Estonian state is not fulfilling its promises and that the Estonian state is not fulfilling its commitments to the universities under an administrative agreement. We want to hope that the country will behave prudently, behave politely and keep its promises. If that is not the case, of course I am sorry to hear that. The Social Democrats are not in the government right now, not yet, and I cannot make promises for the government, but I would like to hope that once we are in the government, we will not break our promises.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U147	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U148	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! We're thinking about the service and the quality of the service. Whether for our money or for taxpayers' money, the quality of the service must be high. We know that we have private day-care or early childhood education, we know that we have municipal day-care, we know that we have beautiful kindergartens, we know that we have ugly kindergartens. We also know that there are kindergartens that offer additional services, where more swimming pools are built, etc. Do you still see with this bill that it needs to be differentiated? However, if the quality in kindergarten is much higher than the standard, should the participation of the parent be slightly higher? Or do you see that this platform is one for everyone and no matter what service is offered in this kindergarten, be it for private or public money, it must all be compensated at the same level?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U149	Thank you. We now foresee that the state should compensate the municipality for the money it is missing if the parents do not pay the municipality the part they are currently paying. For example, if in the city of Tallinn it is already differentiated by the services provided in kindergartens, right, and if the city of Tallinn misses this amount, the state will compensate for the amount that has not been paid if it is already differentiated. But once again, these detailed calculations, we see it that way, do the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U150	Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U151	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good front speaker! I caught myself in one thought during the discussion. The Pre-school Children's Institution Act provides that the local authority is responsible for this or is obliged to have a kindergarten place for all children from the age of three to the age of seven. We know that there are municipalities where this availability is not guaranteed, or literally violates the law. Now, if you put in place free day care for [the child] for parents, who is responsible for access? Will it fall to the state or will it continue to fall to the local government? There could be a pretty sharp conflict here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U152	Thank you for that question. I thought I answered a similar question once. The obligation to organise kindergarten services in the municipality and to provide kindergarten places remains with the municipality and must continue to fulfil this obligation under the Local Government Organisation Act and the Pre-school Children's Institution Act. Our draft states that the state will compensate the municipality for the amount it will not receive if we exempt the parents from paying the place fee.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U153	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U154	Thank you. My second question is slightly resonated by Mr Metsoja and is based on the opinion given by the Government of the Republic on the draft. How, then, would the answer to what is said to be that the logic of compensating for the place payment proposed in the draft is unfair to those local authorities that have made greater investments in the area and where the parent's own contribution is already non-existent or very small? How do you say?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U155	Thank you. I don't understand the logic of this government's position very well. If the sum of the sum currently paid by X's parents in the municipality is Y and now the state says that we are taking on this amount, then we are not doing any advantage or harming anyone. The amount that the municipality is therefore missing from the budget is compensated by the State. It comes not only from the pockets of the parents of this municipality, but from the national budget of all of us. That's it. That's why I don't understand the logic of the government very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U156	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U157	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Good waitress! That's the angle I'm asking. We know, as the explanatory memorandum suggests, that really, the amount of the place fee is very different. Up to 20% of the minimum wage is a ceiling. Have you seen this reimbursement in such a way that the municipality, which today has, for example, 5% of this place fee, is compensated for 5% and the person who has 20% because he/she has paid certain expenses or pays the kindergarten teachers a higher salary is reimbursed 20%? How have you seen this coming?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U158	Thank you. As I have already mentioned, the exact mechanism should be in the Government of the Republic, naturally in consultation with the parties. The bill states that this amount must not be less than the amount paid when the law enters into force. But once again, our bill says that the amount must not be higher, right? Here, there is a risk that municipalities will run up their fees to 20% to fund it from the state, so to speak. That's not the bill, is it? This mechanism, the exact percentages and things should be laid down by the same decree of the Government of the Republic. But what's important is that we don't pay less, that the local government doesn't miss anything that it still had.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U159	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U160	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good waitress! Why don't you still explain the logic of regional inequality? I have looked at the coalition agreements that are being concluded all over Estonia. There are very different approaches: who freezes the kindergarten fee, who loses the kindergarten fee, who goes on at an increasing pace. These perspectives are very different. But if we look at the place fee as an instrument, then it is often that the poorer you allow to say so, the lower the place fee in general. They sense the local background and they cannot charge the price that maybe can be charged in Tallinn's golden circle. What exactly do you mean by regional inequality and levelling out?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U161	Thank you. We still mean that the share paid by parents should be equal, or zero, in all municipalities. Take, for example, the municipality from which I come, which is not the richest government in Estonia, right? There will be 33 euros for one child from the new year, plus food money, plus circles, etc. It's not a very small amount. There are apparently certain municipalities that are based on the general standard of living and the level of pay that the municipality has. But not everyone behaves that way. This creates this inequality that people in different corners of Estonia feel good or bad, in different ways. Then the game that we know of all those who have ever worked in the municipality or have been involved in something like this will begin: pendening, right, finding cheaper places and registering there or there to get some kind of discount and so on. It's all a domino effect. When a parent moves to a neighbouring municipality because of the place fee in kindergarten, there is income tax, right? This is also what we have seen with the support of the first class and the birth grant, which are equally very different in municipalities, very unequal. To stop these games somehow, it's free for everyone. Then it all ends and ends with this inequality, which is very striking in the municipalities, as I said before, it [the gap] is almost ten times different in the municipalities. That's what we want to end.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U162	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U163	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear waitress, Here's the question. If the state takes on pre-school education, as it has done in school education, vocational education, vocational higher education, even higher education, to a greater extent, this is your objective in a fair way, can it also be accompanied by a transition to education in Estonian, more generally in Estonian, to pre-school education?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U164	Thank you for that question. I didn't really understand how it fits in with this bill. But I believe that all political parties currently represented in the Riigikogu support an increase in the share of Estonian language and Estonian language learning in kindergartens. We know very well that in Russian kindergartens, Estonian language education is compulsory since the age of three and, of course, more should be invested in it. Here a colleague has already spoken about these coalition agreements in various municipalities. I have also seen the municipalities who pay attention to this, they pay attention to Estonian language learning in early childhood education. Are we ready to go at some point to complete education in Estonian in all our pre-school facilities? I think we're gonna get there someday, but I'm not quite sure that we can forcefully force it right now. Easy and easy.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U165	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U166	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I certainly agree with the aim of this draft and consider it to be very important. But what raises questions is the question of autonomy of local governments. I also consider it important that the municipalities themselves have the opportunity to make this decision to reduce or lose the place payment in kindergarten. This is, in my opinion, the ideal solution to this problem, that the municipalities themselves are making this decision. After all, this has also been one of the mechanisms that municipalities can compete with each other, perhaps bringing people from larger cities to live in smaller municipalities. It is of great value that local governments have such levers. My question in this sense is perhaps world-viewed. Do you also consider the autonomy of local governments to be important, or are you rather in favour of a highly centralised unitary state?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U167	Thank you, my good colleague, for your support for our draft. I can assure you that the Social Democrats do not wish to restrict the autonomy and decision-making powers of local governments by any means with this draft. We want to come to the local authorities and help their children and parents. Not all municipalities are moving towards making it as cheap as possible, as sustainable as possible for their residents. Rather, the tendency is that it is one of the places where the so-called money-making opportunities are sought. The state has generously promised 20% of the minimum wage, and I believe that every year, when we prepare a budget and a budget strategy in local governments, this issue is on the agenda again, whether we should not raise or lower this fee. I recognise all those municipalities who really think about their children and reduce this reward or make it completely nonexistent. But, as I said in the report, the more statistics show that the larger the municipality and the more children, the more kindergartens, the higher the pay. We could move in the direction that local governments think a little more about this than just their wallet. But as long as it's not there, the state could come to help.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U168	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U169	Thank you. I will correct you: not all political parties support the increase in the share of Estonian language and the teaching of Estonian language. Our reason is that this is a substitute activity instead of a transition to Estonian-language education. But Signe Kivi's question was perfectly understandable to me. I'll open it. One of the dominant justifications for not taking money for early childhood education is that it should be taken as a preschool, including as an Estonian-language school, so that preparation for basic education takes place in kindergarten. Would you agree with this logic that it actually means preparing for a national school and that it has a link with the language of instruction?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U170	Thank you. I totally agree with the logic that kindergarten is the place where we prepare children to go to school. His name is Pre-school Children's Institution. This means that when we are talking about the transition to basic education in Estonian, we must also talk about the transition to education in Estonian in the pre-school institution and create the conditions for doing so. My answer to Signe Kivi is that we have to do it calmly, not by foraging. We need to prepare for the previous steps before we make a big jump. Similarly, in Ida-Virumaa, where I come from, kindergarten directors and school leaders say that they would like to offer more instruction in Estonian, more in Estonian and so on. There is only one concern: there are no people who can help children on this journey; there are no teachers physically. The readiness is to do this not immediately by 100%, but step by step, perhaps even faster than it is now. If we can solve this problem, ladies and gentlemen, then perhaps these thoughts of the Reform Party will someday come true.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U171	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U172	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, For me, there will be interesting views from both the floor and the government. First, you will be asked whether kindergartens should allow municipalities to compete, as if kindergartens were a means of competing, measuring and attracting people, not children themselves. And the government's position is that of a government that does not plan to raise child benefits, the cost of living is increasing and all other problems are added to it, but that of a government that does not raise child benefits, evaluates or is able to see the problem of some kind of inequality between municipalities. But that it could somehow reduce children's inequality, the government couldn't see. Is there any way you can explain why this is happening?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U173	Well, it's hard to see the spirit of government and government ministers and guess what's behind this logic. Indeed, you have the right comment that we are looking first at the interests of the local governments and their ability to cope, but let us forget that the real people, the real children, are behind it. We should first think about their well-being and how children's growth, preparation for life and further education could be equally guaranteed in all the corners of Estonia. As I said in my presentation, from the point of view of scientists, everything ultimately reaches inequalities in higher education, economic inequality, the stratification of our society and all the problems that this entails. Indeed, yes, this whole government position, as I mentioned in answering one question here, does not seem very logical to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U174	No further questions. Today! Now let's hear the report from the Committee on Culture. Please, Marko Šorin!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U175	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Culture discussed the draft that was pending at its meeting on 26 October, with the participation of Aadu Must, chairman of the committee, Eduard Odines, members, Luck Pillak, who replaced Heidy Purgat, main member of the Committee on Culture, Üllar Saaremäe, Margit Sutrop, Jaak Valge and Marko Šorin. Heljo Pikhof, representative of the Social Democrats, was invited to present the draft. Through Telesilla, Deputy Chancellor Liina Põld of the Ministry of Education and Research, Triin Rass, Head of the Legal Policy Department, Raina Loom and Legal Adviser Kristel Möller participated. Heljo Pikhof introduced the bill. As I heard from the waitress yesterday, he had to report here today exactly what Heljo Pikhof introduced to us in the Commission, so I am not focusing on it. The position of the government was presented by the Deputy Chancellor Liina Põld of the Ministry of Education and Research. His main observation of the draft was that early childhood education concerns the competences and responsibilities of local authorities, which have also been delegated in accordance with the law. When it comes to the cost of operating costs, the money invested in early childhood education services is important in terms of quality. The field said that 20% of the minimum wage is the maximum rate that the state allows municipalities to ask parents. Seven municipalities have used this maximum rate in Estonia. The rest of the municipalities have seen the possibility of providing more support to the parent's participation fee and the cost of operating activities is 10 to 15% of the cost of parent's participation fee. Hence this question, which was raised in this Chamber too, that what does it mean that who has invested more? This investment meant that if the participation fee was very low or even zero in one case, this is clearly the part of the municipal taxpayers' money covered. For example, the municipality of Kanepi, where the participation fee is zero, would receive exactly zero euros from the State if this law were to apply. At the same time, they pay for a very large part of the maintenance of kindergarten. According to the explanatory memorandum to the draft, the amount of the place fee for kindergarten is a problem in Tallinn, the municipalities of Harjumaa and the city of Tartu. Vice-Chancellor Põld said that the Government of the Republic does not support the dissipation of responsibility for the cost of operating costs of early childhood education between the municipality and the state. The government maintains that the state should not interfere with local government policy. If the service is not available to the family due to the lack of the necessary financial resources, it is definitely a matter for the local government. He also pointed out that according to the Ministry of Education and Research, there are about 7% of children who do not participate in early childhood education, and not 10%, as was said here. It is often a family choice, which is not a matter of lack of finance, but of sending a child to kindergarten for various reasons. The Ministry does not see the need to make early childhood education compulsory. Among this 7% are children who attend childcare. This may be precisely the reason for what I have pointed out in my question that kindergarten places are simply not available. There are more than one or two of these cases in Estonia. The logic of the compensation proposed in the draft is unfair to those local authorities who have made efforts and added greater investments to the area and where the parent ownership is already non-existent or low. It's the same subject we discussed earlier. It should be taken into account that the income base of local governments will be growing faster in the coming years than the possibilities of the state budget and that local authorities will have the flexibility to make choices that support families with children in the region. Finally, he pointed out that the Government of the Republic decided at its meeting on 22 July that the draft would not be supported. A discussion followed in which Heljo Pikhof drew up a quote that he had read about Postimees. The Prime Minister had said that the place fee for kindergarten should be abolished because it is the most difficult time for young families. The Prime Minister added that higher education should not be free, but early education. This was answered by Eduard Odinets with his question of the impact that food costs have on kindergarten and why food should not be free, as in general education. Then there was the discussion between the two Social Democrats, Eduard Odines and Heljo Pikhof, because Heljo Pikhof replied that food should certainly be free in early childhood education. In view of today's situation, we should start with a spot fee first. Again, Eduard Odines asked what happens to children whose municipality is unable to cope and because of the inability of the municipality, children must stay away from early childhood education. Here Vice Chancellor Liina Põld replied that the Ministry of Education and Research is supervising the implementation of the Early Childhood Education Act and the national curriculum. The Ministry does not supervise local authorities as to whether they are able to manage to manage [support] and map families in need of assistance. However, the Ministry continues to believe that the local government is responsible for organising public services and local life. Margit Sutrop said that kindergarten pay is a very important cost for families, especially for families with several children. Sutrop asked if the salaries of kindergarten teachers were correlated with the size of the place fee. Both Heljo Pikhof and a representative of the Ministry replied. Heljo Pikhof replied that in most municipalities, the pay of early education teachers depends not on the amount of the place fee, but on the minimum wage. Liina Põld added that the cost of operating costs per child for municipalities is certainly linked to teacher's salary in the sense that it is one of the components of operating costs. Whether the proportion paid by the parent is linked to the salary cannot be certain, and there is no record of it. That concludes the discussion in the Commission. The chairman of the committee proposed that Jaak White be appointed rapporteur for the Commission, and I would like to state why I am not Jaak White, to propose that the draft be put on the agenda of the plenary on 9 November and to propose that the first reading be closed. All these proposals received consensus support. However, at the meeting of the Committee on Culture on Monday, the debate was that if the procedure had taken place as planned yesterday, Jaak White would not have been able to perform, which led to the decision that I was the Commission's rapporteur. Since we ran out of time yesterday, this [draft] came on the agenda today. So, two of the three decisions went so-called water drag. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U176	Okay. Jürgen Ligi would like to clarify why you are not Mr. White. Or was there something else? Please, Mr. Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U177	Yeah, that's right. That's right. All those people who are white and who aren't and who are black are going to cross. But how did this struggle end between the two? Who's on top?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U178	Thank you! That's a very good question, one of the most unique in this hall, I suppose. I honestly admit that although they were both physically present at the meeting, this measurement was not really carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U179	With that knowledge, we will end this debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U180	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U181	I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 415. We have finished our first reading and by the deadline for tabling amendments, I will set 24 November at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U182	Today's second item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Commercial Code and the Accounting Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. The lead committee has proposed a final vote at third reading, but before that we will be able to open negotiations. So please, good factions! I don't see words. We are going to the final vote and I would remind you that we need a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu for the adoption of this draft. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that at the third reading, the final vote is on the draft law amending the Commercial Code and the Accounting Act 394 initiated by the Government of the Republic. We need a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu for adoption. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U183	75 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one opposed, 1 abstention. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U184	The third item on today's agenda is the third reading of draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act and consumer protection law initiated by the Government of the Republic. We need to have a final vote, and before that, the political groups will be able to participate in the negotiations. Please! That's not what you want. I'm closing the negotiations. Since we have just had the final vote, can we go to the vote? Thank you! I hope the people on the other side of the screen feel the same way. Mr. Metsoja... [[Laughing.]] Exactly, on the other side of the screen, people agree. That's good to know. That's good to know. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I will put draft 404 before you for the final vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U185	74 members of the Riigikogu supported the draft and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U186	Our fourth item is the draft Act 386 on the approval of amendments to the Convention on International Carriage by Rail and its Annexes initiated by the Government of the Republic. Here, too, we have a final vote, but before that, Sven Sester, Vice-President of the Committee on Economic Affairs, will show us how it has been between the first and second readings in the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U187	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, There is no need for a long introduction; the first reading has already gone through the contents. It can be said, however, that no amendments were presented separately between the two readings from the members of the Riigikogu, from the committees or from the political groups. The Commission took procedural decisions on 19 October but also on 25 October. In conclusion, these procedural decisions were such as to put this specific draft 386 on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for second reading on 10 November, to conclude the second reading and to conclude the final vote. All these decisions in the Commission were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U188	There's no questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. I'm closing the negotiations. As you have heard, the Commission's proposal was for a final vote. Can we go to the final vote, or is there a wish for me to ring the bell? (Voice of the floor: "Yes! " Which one is it? I think we can go to the final vote. I don't see any objections. So, ladies and gentlemen, I will put draft 386 to the vote before you. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U189	69 members of the Riigikogu supported the adoption of the draft, no one opposed, 1 abstention. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U190	The fifth item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Construction Code initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please, Member of the Economic Commission Mikhail Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U191	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Five amendments to the draft were tabled between the first and second readings. The Commission discussed these amendments at two meetings, the first meeting on 22 October and the second on 8 November. The first two amendments were made by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications in connection with a decision of the Supreme Court, which entered into force, specifying the qualification requirement. Previously, the qualification requirement was duplicated in two places, one place was a law and the other was a ministerial regulation. These first two amendments will improve this situation, i.e. only one of these two options will remain. The third and fourth amendments were amendments of a technical nature, i.e. amendments of a language, and the fifth amendment concerned the date of entry into force of the law. Finally, procedural decisions were taken: to place the draft on the agenda for second reading on 10 November and to hold a final vote on 17 November. All decisions and amendments were adopted by consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U192	There's no questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. There are no requests to speak. I'm closing the negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. There are four amendments to the draft. Everything has been submitted by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs has taken full account of them: one, two, three and four. We have accepted the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading. We're done with second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U193	Let's move on to item six. Second reading of Bill 403 of the Act amending the Employment Contracts Act and the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please, by the Legal Affairs Committee, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U194	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The preparation of the draft law amending the Labour Contract Act and the Tax Administration Act for the second and third reading took place in the Committee on Legal Affairs on 25 October. There were no amendments to the draft, although the draft was addressed in writing and one proposal was submitted by the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. In addition, the Ministry of Social Affairs presented two technical proposals aimed at amending the dates of entry into force of the draft. The original [date] was, as we know, 1 July of that year. Ulla Saar, Head of the Labour and Pension Policy Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and Peep Peterson, Chairman of the Confederation of Trade Unions, also attended the meeting. The date of entry into force was clear, a bit longer was discussed on the proposal of the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry to supplement the regulation of the variable hour agreement in the retail trade and precisely the part concerning restrictions. As a result of this discussion, the author of the draft, the Ministry of Social Affairs, explained that it wanted to move forward with the initial agreement between employers and trade unions and its wording, as it was written into the draft as a result of long negotiations. The justification was also that it is actually a pilot project and that, after two and a half years, everything will naturally be reviewed. However, there was an in-depth debate in the Commission and questions were also asked. Would it be reasonable to allow this regulation of the variable hour agreement in a pilot project in smaller companies with fewer than six employees? The replies and comments were very relevant and convincing and the Commission was not difficult to take decisions. There were two amendments. The new proposed date of entry into force of the above provisions will be 15 December 2021. Consequently, it is also necessary to amend the time limit for [the entry into force] of the draft [the entry into force] resulting from a goodwill agreement between the social partners and the State signed on 7 April this year, according to which the possibility to conclude variable hourly agreements will be valid for two and a half years from the entry into force of the amendments to the Employment Contracts Act to the pilot [the project]. All these proposals were taken fully into account by the Commission in consensus. It was also decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 10 November, today, to propose that the second reading of the draft be terminated, and there was a consensus, and when the second reading is closed, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and that the final vote be held on 17 November. This consensual decision was made by Marek Jürgenson, Sulev Kannimäe, Jaanus Karilaid, Uno Kaskpeit, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Heljo Pikhof, Anti Poolamets, Urve Tiidus, Vilja Toomast. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U195	Okay. Oudekki Loone would like to ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U196	[[Remote connection]] Good afternoon. The Estonian Seamen's Independent Trade Union has pointed out that this bill actually allows the employer to put pressure on the employee to 10% of the working time and salary, respectively, by giving a job, not by giving and paying a one-off fee. In fact, flexibility is also possible today, it requires written consent, but in this case, overtime pay is due today, 1.5 times higher. A trade union of seafarers has pointed out that it puts people earning less pay in very vulnerable situations. That is why the question arises: did you discuss this problem, putting small-wage earners in an even more difficult position? Did the question arise that such flexibility could, for example, only be applied at a higher level of pay, for example from EUR 1 500 onwards?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U197	Thank you very much, Mr Oudekki Loone, for this question. The issue of seafarers' trade unions was not on the agenda of this committee meeting. At the same time, the trade union leader Peep Peterson stressed that this draft, which is remembered and known to be the subject of a pilot project, included an agreement between the social partners and assumed some responsibility by the social partners. The social partners are the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Estonian Employers' Confederation, the Estonian Trade Union Confederation, the Estonian Trade Union Association and the Estonian Service and Trade Workers' Union. So this concerns these areas. It's probably the subject of the future you brought up.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U198	Honourable waitress! I have a question for you for your part, which is procedural. I have received information that the commission has proposed to interrupt the second reading of 403 SE. Can you be more specific about that? Commission counselors, I see, nodding.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U199	Okay. Thanks for the question. A little technical rush. Right now. If the Commission's advisor nods, then that is what it is, and I have done a little childhood. Yeah, in that case, abort. We can discuss it further, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U200	It's okay, it's all in that sense...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U201	One reason here might be that I'm a substitute here. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U202	You don't see any more questions. We'll allow you to leave the chair, but there's a procedural question in Mr. Woodland.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U203	Yeah. What's the reason for the interruption? There must be some reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U204	Dear Paul Pulpland! I'll give you the details right now. I'm sorry for the delay.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U205	Okay. Well, we're gonna figure this out fast. The advisers of the commission have also nicely signalled to us that the commission has indeed proposed to interrupt the second reading. But before that, we will examine the amendments. The amendments, all three, have been proposed by the Committee on Legal Affairs, and the Committee on Legal Affairs has taken them all well into consideration. One, two and three. These amendments have been incorporated into the draft. And like I said... Well, Mr. Grünthal now has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U206	Thank you, Mr President. I have a procedural question. You're a more experienced politician here, and you're definitely smarter. What does it mean to be interrupted? Do we still have to examine the amendments? I think it should end there. If there is an interruption, then it is all now, the amendments do not need to be examined.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U207	The new deadline for amendments will come. That is what I will say right now, and then it will be possible to table amendments again. However, the amendments that have been tabled in the Chamber are still being examined, because we are currently in the middle of a second reading of the draft. Before we finish our second reading, we have carried out all our procedures since then. Okay. Urve Tiidus wants a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U208	Thank you very much. I will state once again that this interruption is justified by the fact that a request had to be withdrawn from the Ministry of Social Affairs because it wants to clarify another nuance in the draft. So we can discuss this one more time here. Nothing complicated, nothing special, nothing sudden.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U209	Thank you. To remind Mr Grünthal that this is, however, a perfectly normal practice. If we think about all the other drafts, then the amendments will still be examined first and, as a result of their review, there may be a need to interrupt the second reading of the draft. So, in this sense, of course, these amendments, which have already been tabled in the Chamber, will be examined. Mr. Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U210	I understand your explanation, of course, but if you listen to the explanations of Urve Tiidus now, that there is still a desire to change something and more important here, then, in essence, the current amendments will become [in substance] if the entire content of the [draft] changes in reality.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U211	Thank you. You're wrong. These changes, which have already been introduced, have been introduced. The Commission came before us with a request to interrupt the second reading. Normally, the large hall has accepted the Commission's proposal, the second reading is interrupted, the preparation of the second reading moves back to the Commission, and then the draft comes here. So in this sense, it is a perfectly normal practice. It is also worthwhile to read earlier material about the work of the Riigikogu. Okay. The commission has brought before us the proposal to interrupt the second reading. We have interrupted the second reading, and now I am setting a new deadline for the submission of amendments, which is 12 November at 16:00.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U212	Let's move on to item seven. Second reading of the draft law amending the Public Information Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 409. Please, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Andrei Korobeinik!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U213	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Draft 409 was in preparation for a second reading in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 26 October. a. Kalle Grünthal participated in the meeting, I participated, Oudekki Loone, Paul Puustusmaa, Priit Sibul, who replaced Urmas Reinsalu, Marko Storm and Mart Võrguship. Let me remind you that the idea of the draft is to make open data even more accessible. As this issue concerns a wide range of stakeholders, a wide range of stakeholders were involved in the preparation and processing of the draft. A number of amendments to the draft have been received. The debate in the Commission was very thorough. There were nine amendments in total, of which only one found support. With regard to the remaining amendments, the Commission concluded during the debate that these ideas are very correct, but some of them relate to such good practice rather than so much legislation, while the other part, which relates, for example, to classified data, requires a longer discussion. We are dealing with the transposition of this draft directive, so it is in the interest of all parties that this draft be adopted as soon as possible and that progress can be made more quickly. The ninth amendment, which refers in principle to the deadline for disclosure of data, was supported, so that this obligation would be after adoption and not after publication of this regulation. In addition to voting on the amendments, the Commission took the following decisions: to place the draft on the agenda for the sitting on 10 November, the decision was consensual; to propose the termination of the second reading, the decision was not consensual; 4 was in favour and 3 was in favour; when the second reading is closed, to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda for the plenary assembly and that the final vote be held after a week, 17 November at 2 p.m., and that proposal was not consensual, 5 in favour and 2 against, 2 members of the Commission. I am happy to talk about the content of the amendments and other issues when some want to ask questions and questions come.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U214	Yes, they are. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U215	Thank you. Good Andrei! You're on the remote right now. I believe that the public would also like to know more about this situation or the nuance, which is why the government did not support and why the Commission did not support the AK notation, i.e. the letter 'for official use'. After all, it is clear, and the recitals also made very simply about this amendment, that it is too simply a sign to be considered, that there could be a specification of who, and for what reasons, has made such a sign. But it wasn't supported. Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U216	Yeah. This and a few other amendments were those in which such a proposal did not actually exist. All parties agreed that this is a problem that needs to be resolved, but we are already already falling behind the deadline in the case of transposition of this directive. It was supposed to be done in the summer, right now we have to look out the window in autumn and soon it will be winter. That is why it is very urgent. I believe that we can open this [the subject] all together in the Commission again, just in a slightly different context.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U217	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U218	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I'll take it from here. You said that there was no concrete proposal, and we can also discuss these matters further in the cost charts, which was such a brief summary. However, what happens now when the Riigikogu has to take some decisions, we have received guidelines from international organisations on how we should behave, but these are classified by officials and officials present exactly 180 degrees of the opposite position, based on the same document that is not published to members of the Riigikogu? Why are we even making this law? Should we just take him in and leave it to the officials to fill it in later? Or was it found in the Commission that it should still be dealt with more seriously, rather than talking about it later in the costaires?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U219	Thank you. First of all, I wouldn't call a committee meeting a costaard. It is still a rather common form of work, where people meet officially. There will be a protocol, the cost maidens don't usually make a protocol. But to answer the question of why we are doing this, why we want to adopt this bill, it simply makes our lives better, accelerates development in Estonia. While open data is more accessible, the private sector can build its own applications on these data, compete with public services, and citizens get better services. That's very positive. Maybe you could ask me something else, but that's the question I remembered.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U220	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U221	Thank you very much. Good waitress! I will ask about the first amendment. We know, in fact, that it is [important] that it is easy to find and easily accessible to ensure that public information is available. Data sets created next to the document register may not all be uniformly accessible and usable. Did you have such a substantive debate in the committee on this amendment? Why did the Commission not finally support this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U222	Thank you. When it comes to the first amendment, in this debate we came to the conclusion that this draft issue is not very related. Again, as with other proposals, this direction may be the right one, but we currently have a directive governing the disclosure of data in the transposition process, and in the context of this directive it has simply not, let us say, been a very subject. This practice, to which you refer, has actually been in use in Estonia for 20 years, that we do not encourage duplication, and it generally works quite well. But these cases, when they do not work well, are not a legislative problem in themselves, but rather a practice problem. Exactly the same as that AK badge and exactly the same as disclosure of data that there is a law, but just the practice is left behind. So it's rather a matter of good practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U223	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U224	Thank you. For years, we have stressed the importance of sensitive personal data and their non-publication, but this law abolishes existing concepts and deletes the text: "This information is not given for general use or is given for general use only a part of the information whose general use does not significantly undermine the privacy of a person, or'. Is privacy no longer important or important to be expelled?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U225	Thank you. Nobody throws anything like that out of there. Today, too, in the case of sensitive data, disclosure is done simply by hand scanning the paper, where more sensitive places are covered. This practice does not change and the law does not change this practice. So I don't know exactly where you got this data, that information, but no, that law doesn't. If any parallel procedure goes somewhere else, I'm not aware of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U226	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U227	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You mentioned the pressure of time in the context of the transposition of the European directive. At the same time, you also mentioned that all parties in the proceedings were in principle of the opinion that the concept of AK restriction was a problem, that it would need to be clarified and that it would need to be dealt with. On the previous item, we have come to the point that the Commission has proposed an interruption. Did you once discuss that maybe this is such an important issue that it should be resolved in this very context? Is this time pressure so great that it cannot be done?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U228	Thank you. As a senior politician, you understand [a situation] where the transposition time is in the past. There's two sides, all right? First of all, we were really late, but second of all, it has nothing to do with the logic of this law. I would not say that this concept is problematic; rather, this practice is problematic. If light-handedly simply put some kind of long deadline for secrecy, then of course it isn't, I think, what we want. But if we are going to change this, there must be a concrete solution that should be properly discussed. Since this directive is not directly related to the subject matter, I do think it could be a separate theme. Well, there are people in the Riigikogu capable of completing it here in a year and a half.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U229	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U230	Thank you, good manager. I'm still teasing you about the pressure of time. I believe that many will understand that quality, not quantity, is essential in the drafting of the law. We already understood the answers to the questions here, and it turned out in the same way in the Commission that there are problems here. We still need to change one decimal point here, to specify whether it is either the "Intra-Institutional Use" or the cross-use of data issues. There are problems. But we're still in a hurry. You were referring to time pressure. The public wants to know what time pressure is, how this time pressure is rushing us, why we couldn't have done what we had here today, so we could have stopped second reading and fixed this thing. What would have happened if we hadn't rushed it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U231	Thank you. I hope that we will never know what would have happened, because we are still adopting it [the law]. But in 2014, I believe that the Open Data Act was passed, which basically obliged the country to open up data to the private sector. Now, in seven years' time, we'll see that it works, but it's gonna work pretty hard. This bill will make the situation a little better. Unfortunately, most of the problem of why we do not have all the necessary data in the public domain comes not from legislation, but from practice. It's just that a ministry or official doesn't want to deal with it, and that's why the data isn't public. But if we accept this bill, we will take such a small step towards a bright future. If we're even more late, it doesn't really get us closer to solving the problems you're referring to. In fact, in addition to these classified data, there are a number of other nuances that could be handled separately and which are very important. However, they are not directly related to this draft and therefore their procedure in the context of this draft procedure would perhaps be a little too spread.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U232	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U233	Good waitress! Does this draft not create such a risk that sensitive information about the Estonian economy, industry or also government may become more accessible to foreign interest groups who may not have the best intentions for the Estonian state and people? How are these dangers grounded?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U234	Thank you. These risks are not mitigated by this draft, but they do not increase either by adopting this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U235	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U236	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I have always been interested in the fact that if we were to adopt some kind of law, it would also be unambiguous. My question is the experience of [my] Tallinn City Council [member]. Perhaps Hannogi still remembers that when the city of Tallinn separated the housing belonging to the city for police officers, the hearing was suspended. In order to see the text of the bill, we had to log in somewhere in the ACTAL. Just because we didn't get the name of the policeman, teacher or nurse who got it from the city of Tallinn. Was it legally very correct, or was it overslaught, if all this had to be done, because the city of Tallinn, as a public institution, allocated an apartment to the necessary employee? This decision was made, but it was simply not the name of the person before [knowing], but after that we could look at all those who were entered into that house.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U237	It was a very exciting historic journey now. From the experience of Pärnu Council, I can tell you that we have never had such a thing. But maybe I didn't quite get the question right now. I'd love to answer, but I don't know what. [[A voice from the hall.]] We've done well, yes. I think it's getting better and better.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U238	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U239	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Actually, the situation isn't that rosy. I dare say from my brief practice as a member of the Riigikogu that some times I have received a reply from the Ministry that, unfortunately, we cannot publish it because there is an AK on it, as if it were not related to the work of the Riigikogu. After a great deal of business and gymnastics, it turns out that this [cause] is someone's name, and it was just comfort. Just comfort. To this end, the laws should actually be clarified, if necessary, in order to bring these people out of the comfort zone. I think that the small step that this directive is going to take could still be a little longer. However, I would ask a specific question and it concerns Amendment 2, which is precisely the part of the names. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Was this amendment No 2 being discussed in the Commission and what was the Commission's position?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U240	Thank you. Well, the Commission's view was that, if the document contains sensitive data and can, for example, be omitted from this document and still be made public, this possibility exists today. Whether it is being used and to what extent it is being used is a second question. As you mentioned, often it's just convenience, an official doesn't want to bet his time and deal with it, he answers that the data is classified. Even if this is some kind of big package of documents that once mentioned the name of a person and everything else is completely innocent information, you're gonna lose that information. In order to change this practice, it is primarily necessary to change the attitude, but I fully agree that the amendment to the law could also be on the agenda. It is simply a clear longer debate. There was also the question of how to rule out that these sensitive data would not go where they would not have to. These two sides must be balanced. So I hope we come back to this. This is certainly not some sort of subject of a single sitting, but it is a bit longer. But I, like you, believe that we can take this step. So let's look ahead optimistically.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U241	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U242	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress Andrei! Your answers have actually given an idea of the magnitude of the confusion around this subject. Consequently, this is still a crucial issue that should be mentioned in the context of the term. You have stressed many times that practice is bad and officials are in the comfort zone, and finally, well, the directive also says that we are talking about the directive in the past. It is difficult in my mind to find a directive that we would have been able to deal with earlier here. Rather, all the deadlines for directives have come into force before they come into force, and only then will we deal with them. So, what do you want to do now? Maybe we shouldn't be dealing with a legislative amendment, but we should be issuing a white paper or some code of ethics in the context of the AK restrictions. If the concept is clear, but the officials do not understand and the practice is wrong, maybe it is not at all the subject of the Riigikogu Chamber?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U243	Thank you. In this sense, you may be absolutely right, I also think that we need to look into the problem and understand where there is a problem with practice and where there is a problem with legislation. I'm not so optimistic personally that we're gonna publish a book, all the officials are gonna read it, and then the quality is gonna rise. It may not be possible to change the law, but we need to deal with it [the subject]. When we come to that conclusion, it is therefore the subject of changing mentality, which is not so much within the competence of the Riigikogu, but we would not be able to deal with it in the context of this draft procedure. I do not agree with you, we usually transpose the directives in time. It's just that these are a little different times and some things are dragging on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U244	No further questions. Thank you! Let's open the negotiations. Please, Tarmo Kruusimäe!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U245	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good, brave ambassadors, who are not afraid of you! And, of course, you, too, who are shaking a little bit there, maybe that rabies or what's going on in the woods! It doesn't infect people. But it's not what I wanted to say. Oh, the representative of the Commission is leaving too, so he can speak more calmly. Well, it's always like we find a million and two reasons not to do anything. It was, of course, absolutely incredible for me that, when I was in the previous composition of the Committee on Economic Affairs, it was manned by strong, tough, brave men who didn't chicken out in front of any weight, even in front of it, to discuss this "for professional use" notation, but o tempora, o mores, maybe now there are really some softmen put into work, who will see if we are actually going to change it now that it will lead to that. For those people who watch over the Internet: it goes broadly so that if a party makes an amendment, the ministry officials say that we do not support it, and the majority of the Commission actually does not support it. But we need this data to make these decisions. In accordance with the law, we have several authorities to collect data. If you turn there as a member of the Riigikogu and you wish to receive the data they collect, they will tell you that it is either a business secret or it is sensitive personal data or whatever. So what? I'm asking you, so what? If we're here to legislate, we should have it all figured out. Or we'll interrupt the transmission if a bird slips over our lips, or we'll play such a prank game again that, you know, it's the guy who's coming Christmas, with a white beard who needs to read a poem, but we don't dare say who he really is. They say we're taking a little step forward right now. What we are taking here on the ground, we are taking one of the neatest and most powerful steps! The Commission may suspend [reading] and review this matter. Perhaps at this point, a person or an envoy has not encountered the fact that he is unable to obtain the necessary data in order to make [something] better. Worse still, we will never know when two proposals have been put on the table in some ministries. One proposal wins, but this other proposal will not be disclosed to us. In fact, in 20 years, this alternative proposal may well prove to be much more competent than what came out in good times, perhaps because of changed circumstances. Perhaps the need for the target group in itself has already changed considerably. But no, we've got all this classified so we can look at these data from somewhere. Another thing, if this notation were to be removed, the amendment tabled by the Fatherland could be in the document register from the next day. Nor is it supported. Who doesn't? Is it not supported by the members of the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu, or is it not really supported by the Ministry and its sub-offices, who do not simply want to keep track? Really, it's pretty easy for IT guys to make some kind of proge run with a date, this document goes public, and it's now going to be placed in a public register. But no, the people of the Committee on Economic Affairs decide that they will not support it. Surprise surprise, the Ministry doesn't support it either. I'm not going to repeat those words here, whether or not I'm a rubber stamp, I'm more of a leather man, this rubber thing I'd leave to everyone else. Let's get our backs straight one day, because we need the best decisions and knowledge. That is not the answer, if we tell our constituents that we did not have all the information. We, the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia, did not have all the information, because officials simply decided with their best discretion that they did not wish to transmit these data. Because officials have ruled our country for decades, but a member of the Riigikogu is such a...... the wind of attraction, comes, goes, comes, goes. [[He's whistling.]] It's not like you need to worry about him, he's lived without information before, and he's still alive. Hardi Volmer has said: I can't be without information, I need how much air I need. I need information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U246	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U247	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think any of us doubt the need for free access to public information. Perhaps it would still be wise to do a little field trip today, why we have come to this step or a situation in which we acknowledge that this bill should have been adopted a while ago, the directive would have needed to be enforced a while ago, and now we are saying that, well, we are going to take this small step, the rooster step, this rooster step is in the right direction. There was a long summer, and indeed, if the coalition really wanted this rooster step to have been made in time, then I dare say that it certainly would not have been behind the Fatherland Group. We would have come together in the summer and taken this step and, if necessary, also took the time to deal with the subject in substance. Eight very substantive amendments have been tabled by the Isamaa Group. Very substantive. The main answer we heard was that, indeed, these are substantive proposals, they deserve to be discussed, but, well, you know, now is not the time to deal with it. This, frankly, gives a poor impression of our work if we justify it that way. However, I would also like to mark some of these amendments, briefly what the Fatherland has proposed and what has been done. Why are they really important? In part, I have already pointed that out in my questions. I myself have experienced in this Riigikogu how, when asking for information from the Ministry, the answer is that it is for official use and it cannot be obtained. If you turn to the Chancellor of Justice to clarify the matter, then the answer will be: indeed, yes, it could have, there was a name inside, it could have been covered. And it's like getting out of trouble. It can also be said that it is really a matter of being in a comfort zone. Not all things can be regulated by law, but if this problem exists and is not an isolated case, then you should still look deeper. Maybe we need to limit these comfort zones a little bit. One of the reasons that is here, and which is also one of the amendments of the Fatherland, is that no regulation serves the purpose unless there is liability for this violation. At present, responsibility is in case the document is wrongly published, but there is no liability for misrepresentation. The result is the concealment of unwarranted information, which makes it difficult to overestimate the extent of the damage suffered by society. Perhaps we have really put such responsibility on one side. In some ways, these officials can also be understood. He's better off hiding. The worst part is that he has to publish this document at some point. Otherwise, it's like he's thinking that maybe I shouldn't publish what my superiors think about what someone else thinks about it or what the public thinks about it. That is how we have artificially pushed this problem to the edge where we encourage the concealment of certain information. Tarmo, a good previous speaker here, actually pointed out that some problems would be relatively easy to solve in today's digital society. After all, we consider ourselves an e-state, or at least we think we should be, so that the AK mark can automatically disappear from the document register when the deadline arrives. Elementary, completely elementary. Why, then, should it not also be regulated by law to force it to do so? A little extra time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U248	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U249	Why, then, should it not be legally binding if otherwise this problem cannot be resolved? Of course, it could be solved without the law. I totally agree, totally elementary. But it seems that we have fallen into a dead end where there is a need for some kind of push and, if necessary, the Riigikogu needs to give such a boost. These are, in fact, completely substantive problems. Let us look at the amendments tabled by the Fatherland. It is desirable to provide for an obligation for the holder of information to comply with the request for information on the working day following its arrival, if it seeks information which, according to law, should be available in the public view of the register of documents, but is not. This should be done figuratively the next day. If it must be, these officials must be brought out of the comfort zone and allowed to do so. Believe me, an open society is much more effective on the economic side; it is also much stronger than a closed society in solving various crises. If we do not give enough air to openness, we will not be able to create an open society enough. Finally, we recognise that we do not have any money, we have a poor health crisis, we cannot reach the deadlines for vaccination, etc. The result is exactly what we do not want. So it is a great pity that these eight proposals of the Fatherland have been disregarded, because they are very substantive proposals. But, of course, we are not going to leave it that way, so we are going to come up with these issues again, because these are very important issues for the whole of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U250	Speaking in a position. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U251	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, One detail needs to be corrected. My colleague Tarmo Kruusimäe came to the remote control and went so eager to hear his own voice that he changed the Committee on Economic Affairs with the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. However, this draft was dealt with by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Having repeatedly encountered laws in this area, I assure you that they have their place and their point, but the committees are different. So it needed fixing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U252	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U253	[[Remote connection]] Just a short reply: there are rules in the business. It is very common that some things need to be done at several stages. They say you have to speak to the driver in the driver's language, soccer player in football. I would say that this is also the case with public information, the Euro Directives and everything else. If you go to the car repair[workhouse] to change the oil and discover that you could also replace the seat covers, but if you have not even chosen seat covers, you sometimes have to come back a second time to deal with it and see what colour and how they are needed. In this sense, Heiki Hepner came to the right conclusion at the end of his long speech. Yes, every theme needs to be taken apart again when there is a critical mass that needs to be discussed and decided on. So don't say now that one law has to solve all the problems in the field. We are not only dealing with one law; we are dealing with legislation whose links are linked. One more thing saddened me. I like it when people complain about it. I sincerely regret colleagues who do not receive public information, who are told that they are not affected. Over the last few decades, I don't know why I haven't had any trouble not getting the information I need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U254	Paul Woodland, please! You have a registered address.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U255	Yeah, I forgot! Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to say that our own legislation should not be hasty. We have a strange tradition in lawmaking that, if there are any special types of sensitive personal data, they are immediately public, anyone can look at them. This is not in line with [business practice] or practice in European countries. On the other hand, we have these databases and public information that are being treated in rape and haste. This draft is a very concrete example that there is a great rush to rape. I understand and we understand very much that there is a need for remediation here, we see that there are shortcomings, but this haste and the resulting legislative failure is still completely unacceptable. The amendments proposed by the Fatherland are, for the most part, very sensible. There is no justification for rejecting them for the simple reason that we are in a hurry. Therefore, such a law cannot be found to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U256	Okay. I understand Mr. Hepner wants a line.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U257	That's right. Yeah. I would like to say above all that my main criticism is based on the reason put forward by the previous speaker, Paul Puustusmaa. We say, on the one hand, that we need to do this awfully quickly, and in this principled law we are in a hurry, say that we are now taking this rooster step. At the same time, we are in the coalition precisely, I would like to stress, however, that the coalition's leadership was wasted all summer, if we had been able to work in essence, but we did not take advantage of this opportunity. Now we're telling you, too bad, you see, good suggestions, but still we can't use it because we're in a hurry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U258	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U259	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, above all from the Isamaa Group. I'm really sorry. This was a very professional debate, which was held in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The amendments tabled by the Fatherland were tabled by Priit Sibul and did so very professionally, we discussed very substantively and, in fact, on many of the amendments, the Commission reached a position, too, and I repeatedly proposed to the representatives of the Ministry that these proposals should be worked on in substance. But it doesn't make any sense when they say at one point why you're not in a hurry, and at the other point they say why you're not taking them. Please understand, these are two different things. One is the transposition of the Directive. In order to transpose the directive, as Mr Andrei Korobenik, the rapporteur for the Commission, nicely and accurately expressed, the deadline is over, so it is very sensible to make these changes which make the situation considerably better than what is today. These amendments by the Fatherland, not all eight of them, did not find substantial support during the debate, but the most important reason was that they would require a longer period of study. I don't care if it's the AK theme. No one denies that such a debate should take place, and no one prevents either the Fatherland or any of the ambassadors, on their own, from initiating a draft on the basis of the amendments tabled by the Fatherland. It is very important, once again, without underestimating the amendments and the content of the amendments tabled by the Fatherland, that there are no amendments to the subject matter of this directive. To say that someone was asleep, I'd like to say that you must have slept with those who ask and criticize. There was a deadline for amendments. Indeed, eight amendments were received, no more, not by any other party, nor by the EHRE, nor by any other party. There was also one amendment from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and no further amendments were received. So, members of the Riigikogu who criticize, please look in the mirror. Why, then, did you not make these amendments in time when we are talking about the subject matter of this bill, above all the transposition of the directive? There were no amendments to the transposition of the Directive. Once again, I would like, on the one hand, to commend the Fatherland for actually pointing out these pains. These [proposals] will certainly not go under. This was repeatedly my request to the representatives of the ministry to deal with them in substance. For me, in this context, it is still completely incomprehensible that there has been practically a fair here, and now, as is the case, the world is again discovered. Please ask your colleague, Mr Priit Sibula, who took part in the committee meeting and presented these amendments. In my opinion, the debate was very constructive. Once again, I recognise that many of the amendments deserve to be discussed. I do not rule out that they also receive the status of a so-called letter of law at one point, but it cannot be done over and over again. Mr. Kruusimäe said we shouldn't be in a hurry. Now we're saying we're not in a hurry, we're taking more time. It was also a request from the Ministry that we analyse them and then decide what we will do. Otherwise, we must put this directive to a halt. It doesn't make sense. We will adopt this directive and then it will be possible to present these legislative amendments at any time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U260	Since Mr Kruusimäe's name was mentioned during the negotiations, the possibility of a rejoinder exists.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U261	Yes, thank you! For the sake of protocol for people who watch. I hope our protocols don't get that AK badge. What Mr. Kivimägi said now was that today is the day of the martini and run wherever you want, but we just don't do your business. If we are going to make a proposal at random, then the draft from the Commission will simply be suspended at first reading and will not reach second reading. We now have a good opportunity to discuss it here in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu. In my opinion, all the drafts could still reach a second reading so that the ambassadors could give their opinion. This recommendation, which was made there, sounded at the moment that the directive was more important to us than ever. But I even remember the more than a thousand suggestions made about a public survey. I still have them in physical form, but maybe the others won't find them again. Time will come, and we may be able to publish a book, good Aadu Black, "Nowhere" is the title of this book's working version. I've got plenty of footage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U262	Mr Kivimägi's name was also mentioned, so please, rejoinder!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U263	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague Tarmo Kruusimäe! I'm sorry, but I'm forced to say that not all days are brothers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U264	We're done negotiating. Let us examine the amendments. We have nine amendments. The first amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Isamaa; the commission has failed. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U265	Thank you, Mr President. I ask for this amendment to be voted on and to confirm that all the amendments tabled by the Fatherland are already mature for adoption and do not need to be further dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U266	Then let's vote it through. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? We are discussing the 409 SE's first amendment. Submitted by the Isamaa Group, the lead committee has neglected. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U267	21 members of the Riigikogu supported the proposal, 55 against. The proposal was not supported. The second amendment. Submitted by the Isamaa Group, the commission has failed. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U268	I also ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U269	I believe we can go to the vote now. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall put the second amendment to the vote. Submitted by the Isamaa Group, the commission has failed. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U270	The proposal was supported by 24 members of the Riigikogu, 52 against. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 3. Submitted by the Isamaa Group, the commission has failed. Mr. Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U271	This amendment, too, deserves to be voted on, and I ask for it to be supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U272	I shall put the third amendment to the vote. Submitted by the Isamaa Group, the commission has failed. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U273	The proposal was supported by 26, with 53 against. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 4. Submitted by the Isamaa Group, the commission has failed. Mr. Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U274	Thank you. I would also like to ask for a vote on this good proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U275	I shall put to the vote Amendment 4. Submitted by the Isamaa Group, the commission has failed. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U276	The proposal was supported by 30, with 51. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 5. Submitted by the Isamaa Group, the commission has failed. Mr. Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U277	Thank you. As the support for the amendments is growing here, I would also ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U278	I shall put the fifth amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U279	The proposal was supported by 28 against 52. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 6. Submitted by the Isamaa Group, the commission has failed. Mr. Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U280	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I also ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U281	I shall put the sixth amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U282	The proposal is supported by 27 members of the Riigikogu, 52 against. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 7. Submitted by the Isamaa Group, the commission has failed. Mr. Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U283	I would also like to ask everyone to be aware of this motion for a vote on the AK mark.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U284	I shall put the seventh amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U285	26 members of the Riigikogu supported the proposal, 49 against. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 8. Submitted by the Isamaa Group, the commission has failed. Mr. Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U286	Thank you. I also ask for this amendment to be voted on. This is also the last opportunity to support some of the proposals made by the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U287	Okay, I got it. I shall put the eighth amendment to the vote. Submitted by the Isamaa Group, the commission has failed. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U288	The proposal was supported by 28 members of the Riigikogu. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 9. Submitted by the lead commission and fully accounted for. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft. We're done with second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U289	Our eighth item on the agenda is the second reading of the draft law amending the Penal Code and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic, 407. Aivar Sõerd presents this by the Finance Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U290	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We had discussions in the Committee on Monetary Affairs in preparation for the second reading of this draft on 19 and 26 October. When there was a meeting on 19 October, Thomas Honourable, Head of the Financial Markets Policy Department from the Ministry of Finance, and two advisors from the same department, Siim Tammer, Member of the Management Board of the Financial Supervision Authority, and Marju Kohv, Head of the Legal Department, we also had a representative banking union, from which Kaire Husu and Anneliis were from the Räpo Luminor Group and Kadri Haldre LHV Group. In short, what is the essence of the draft. The draft law transposes the European Union covered bond directive on the issuance of covered bonds and the public supervision of covered bonds into the covered bond law. This draft will create a better possibility for credit institutions to issue covered bonds, covered bonds whose underlying assets are located in different Member States. This is important for the Baltic countries, because there are largely the same banking groups here. Changes to this draft will allow better integration of the Baltic capital markets. It is recalled that the first reading of the draft was completed on 15 September. The deadline for submitting amendments was 29 September, but they were not submitted to the Riigikogu. We asked stakeholders for opinions on the draft and involved them in the discussions. The opinion was requested from the Auditor Board, the Financial Supervision Authority, the Estonian Banking Association and the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. The opinion was delivered by the Financial Supervision Authority and the Estonian Banking Association. In particular, the Financial Supervision Authority asked for clarification of the purpose of the stress test on the covered bond portfolio and the principles of finding sufficient collateral. The Estonian Banking Association wished to exclude from the provisions implementing the Penalty Act the requirement that only collateral granted before the entry into force of the Penalty Act can be used as collateral, the outcome of which is documented and the valuation methodology is identifiable. In addition, the Banking Association asked to exclude from the draft the requirement that the trustee and the bank auditor should be different persons. However, the Ministry of Finance issued an opinion and asked the lead committee to specify the requirements for applying for the authorisation of the issuance of covered bonds and the requirements for the valuation of the assets backing the mortgage credit. However, the Ministry of Finance also proposed to clarify the purpose and procedure of carrying out stress tests on the covered bond portfolio in the draft and to simplify the terms and conditions for the use of real estate covered bonds as collateral before the entry into force of the covered bond law. The representatives of the Financial Supervision Authority, the Banking Association and the Ministry of Finance presented their proposals at their meeting on 19 October. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance gave an overview of the additional proposals of the initiator of the draft to amend the draft. Okay. As a result, four amendments to the draft were tabled by the lead committee. The first of these specifies the requirements for a credit institution when applying for an authorisation to issue covered bonds. The second proposal clarifies the regulation of stress tests on the covered bond portfolio. The third amendment clarifies the requirements for the valuation of assets backing mortgage credit. The fourth amendment simplifies the conditions under which the valuation of assets that took place before the entry into force of the covered bond law is considered to comply with the requirements of the covered bond law. Explanations of the amendments are also included in the list of amendments. At the same time, the lead committee did not support the Banking Association's proposal, which intended to exclude from the draft the requirement that the guarantor and the bank auditor should be different persons. Neither the Ministry of Finance nor the Financial Supervision Authority supported the proposal because they considered that the collateral controller of the covered bond portfolio must be as separate and independent as possible from the issuer and its auditor. Okay. I also have a brief overview of the discussions that took place at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 19 October. There were no amendments from the Riigikogu, but since opinions were submitted by the Financial Supervision Authority, the Estonian Banking Association and the Ministry of Finance, we dealt with them. I asked myself, as the Ministry of Finance, the Financial Supervision Authority and the Banking Union are reaching a compromise position, whether the content of this compromise proposal is that an additional reserve in case the collateral becomes weak or weaker will be accounted for in the covered bond portfolio or is a reserve elsewhere on the bank's balance sheet. Why is it important for market participants where this guarantee is specifically located? The Ministry of Finance explained that if the guarantee is already included in the covered bond portfolio, this means that the bank must also have the ability to issue unsecured debt. The share of the bank's unsponsored assets will remain smaller and the position of unsecured bond holders or depositors will become worse in the final stage. For example, if a client is carrying out its loan obligations and is not indebted to a bank, the bank should still assess whether, in certain stress situations, it may remain in debt for more than 180 days and, in advance, point out that its loan cannot be considered as collateral for covered bonds. According to the compromise, if the client is not in debt today and is fulfilling its loan obligations, such a loan could in any case be strong enough to fully enter the cover of the covered bonds. My colleague Aivar Kokk said that, if the Minister can impose conditions in his regulation, it is good practice in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that, before the third reading, the proposed regulations are being reviewed by the Commission. How about this? Thomas Honourable, representative of the Ministry of Finance, replied that the regulation did not impose new obligations, that the law laid down principles, that the regulation merely specified them. The original version of the draft regulation is also attached at the end of the draft explanatory memorandum. The chairman of the committee asked the Financial Supervision Authority to comment on its proposal to amend § 47 of the Financial Supervision Authority Act. The answer of the Ministry of Finance was that the inspection letter had a proposal that one amendment should be removed from the draft, which concerns who must be notified by the Financial Supervision Authority in relation to who issues the fund notes in Estonia. However, this cannot be deleted as the covered bond directive explicitly provides for such an information obligation. According to the Ministry of Finance, such a requirement cannot be excluded from the draft. I myself asked such a question that, since this is a transposition of the directive, how far are the other Member States in this process? The point is that this question was put here at first reading, and then there was no such review, but today it is known that Latvia has transposed the directive, but Lithuania is not yet known to have transposed it. About a month ago today, there were only five countries that had transposed the Directive. The deadline passed in the summer, but the representative of the Ministry stressed that it was more important, however, to argue with the banks and not to rush into adopting the law. The chairman of the committee summed up the debate so that the Commission was expected to provide clarifications and additions to the draft for the next discussion by the Ministry of Finance. Then we can move on. We had the next meeting on 26 October. We continued the debate on 19 October, we reviewed the proposals of the Financial Supervision Authority, the Banking Union and the Ministry of Finance once again. I asked myself about carrying out stress tests on covered bonds, how this would happen in practice. Thomas Honourable, a representative of the Ministry of Finance, explained in detail that scenarios of a certain degree are being developed when carrying out stress tests. For example, it has to be decided that if 5% of the borrowers are unable to repay the loan or are delayed for more than 90 days, how can the bank cover the deficit? The corresponding loans must be replaced by other loans in the covered bond portfolio. The scenario where, for example, property prices fall by 10% on the market and the value of collateral to cover claims decreases accordingly must also be taken into account. In this case, the deficit must be covered and new loans added to the portfolio to the appropriate extent. In order to cover any shortfall, the Bank may also take up reserves or other liquid assets. But the banks need to develop their own solutions. The Financial Supervision Authority shall assess whether these measures are genuine. Okay. The Commission examined the proposals and, in its new wording, decided to support those proposals that were not the subject of a previous opinion. To sum up, the Commission made consensual decisions. Firstly, it was decided to propose that the draft be put on the agenda by 10 November and that the second reading be closed. When the second reading is closed, the Commission will propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda for the third reading by 17 November and that a final vote be taken. That's all for me right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U291	But there are also questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U292	Good manager! Good waitress, thank you for an interesting and thorough review! Here's the question. After all, this is the transposition of the directive, which it is, 2019/2162. The Banking Association has a proposal that one requirement should be removed that a different person should be a checker and an auditor of the underlying assets. The reason was that there are not enough large and capable audit firms in Estonia. My one question is whether some things can be left optional in the directive and some can be taken. Was it discussed who are even capable audit firms in Estonia and how many are there?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U293	Yes, it is a matter of substance, and that is what we discussed in the Commission. Indeed, this was proposed by the Banking Association, but was opposed by both the Financial Supervision Authority and the Ministry of Finance on the grounds that the guarantor must still be as separate and independent as possible from the issuer and its auditors. We also felt that the reasoning was correct. In fact, this situation is not so bad on the market, yet among the auditors operating on the market, there are recognised auditors who are able to assess this underlying asset. It's not that bad, maybe the banking union's overdramatic. That was our position.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U294	Peter Ernits again, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U295	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! Let's keep going. So there's still a little bit of an audit firm. But still, if you characterize this directive, how much is this degree of freedom in its transposition? Besides, the banking union should know how the directives are being transposed, not by taking and fingering here. What is the degree of freedom in this directive? If you look at other countries, five countries, or what you said, how many have taken over it, some are definitely smaller than Estonia, or I do not know if it is smaller, is there any similar differences that there are no capable audit firms and then you have to apply for it instead of taking over?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U296	This five country was in a state a month ago, maybe more countries have come here. But the Estonian market is small compared to large countries, we have fewer companies operating in certain fields on the market, and audit firms too. But this may not be the kind of question that cannot be resolved. This situation is not so bad that we do not find a sufficiently recognised and reliable auditor on our small market who can evaluate this collateral. Our market isn't that small.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U297	Thank you. No further questions. We can go to the negotiations. If you want to negotiate, let me know. You don't see that wish. I'm closing the negotiations. The amendments now need to be examined. Four amendments to the draft have been tabled. The first amendment is tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and has been fully taken into account by the Commission. The second amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and has taken full account of it itself. The third amendment has also come from the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the commission has taken full account of it. The fourth amendment, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. We have examined all the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 407. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U298	Now we can go to agenda number nine. Draft Act amending the National Budget Act 2021 initiated by the Government of the Republic 431. This is a second reading. The rapporteur is Erki Savisaar, Chairman of the Monetary Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U299	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the preparation of the second reading of this year's draft law amending the State Budget Act on 26 October. No proposals were received from members of the Riigikogu, political groups or committees by the deadline for submitting amendments. However, the Committee on Monetary Affairs, in cooperation with the Ministry, drafted six amendments specifying costs and one amendment to the text. Explanations of the amendments are given in the list of amendments to the proposals. The Commission unanimously decided to close the second reading of the draft and to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 14 a.m. on 15 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U300	Peter Ernits is asking.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U301	Good manager! It would be interesting to know some backgrounds. The church was supposed to rise or rise to the river, but I read here that half a million have decided to direct the Ministry of the Interior to the reserve fund of the Government of the Republic of Estonia for the construction and furnishing of the church building of the Estonian Evangelical Lutheran Church Jõgeva Congregation. Does this mean that the church will be flushed, even partially?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U302	Thank you, good Peter! No, the other way around. The reason is that construction will not be completed this year, and this change will allow the next year to continue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U303	No further questions. Then it is possible to go to the negotiations. But there is no wish for negotiations either. I'm closing the negotiations. Let us go to the amendments. The first amendment is made by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which has been fully taken into account by the commission. The second amendment is also made by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the commission has taken full account of it. The third amendment, which is tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. The fourth amendment, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. The fifth amendment, quite substantial, is made by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and the commission has taken full account of it. The sixth amendment is tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and has been fully taken into account by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The author of the seventh amendment is also the Committee on Monetary Affairs and has taken full account of this. We have examined all the amendments to this draft. The commission has proposed that the second reading of draft 431 be terminated. Second reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to this draft, including on 15 November at 14:00. We have also gone through the ninth item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U304	Today's 10th item is the draft decision of the Riigikogu entitled "Accepting the State's Summary Report for the financial year 2020" submitted by the Government of the Republic 432. This is a first reading. The rapporteur is Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of Finance. Oh, and he's part of the distance, that's right. Hello, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U305	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! You have before you a summary report for last year, the country's 2020 financial year, giving an overview of how the government and the government sector used taxpayers' money as a whole in 2020, and how the country's financial situation changed as a result. The summary report for the financial year of the State has been compiled on the basis of the accounts of all public sector entities. It shall consist of an annual report and financial statements and shall include data on the state, local government, government and public sector as a whole. At the end of last year, 2020 the general government had total assets of EUR 19.55 billion. By comparison, the government's assets amounted to EUR 17.67 billion a year earlier at the end of 2019 and liabilities amounted to EUR 10.3 billion. Compared to a year earlier, assets grew by EUR 1.88 billion and liabilities by EUR 3.28 million. Last year, the government budget balance fell, as we all know, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, to a deep deficit of 1.35 billion euros, or 5% of GDP, according to Statistics Estonia. The deficit was 3.9% for central government and social security funds, respectively, and 1.2% for social security funds, which was slightly balanced by the surplus of local governments, which was a pretty small but surplus of 0.1% for GDP. The deficit in the budget of the social security funds was similarly due to the crisis, which resulted from a very sharp, exponential increase in expenditure levels. The financial situation of local authorities was quite affected by the crisis. This is mainly due to reduced income tax receipts. However, with the support of state support measures and, ultimately, the more prudent spending behaviour of local authorities, the budget surplus of EUR 6 million was closed last year. Due to the negative outcome of last year, which amounted to over EUR 1 billion, EUR 1.18 billion, as well as the cash-flow deficit, which in turn was an additional EUR 2.46 billion, the Riigikogu cannot decide to increase the stabilisation reserve at the expense of the cash-flow surplus. The summary report of the financial year passes before the government comes before the Riigikogu, including the audit of the National Audit Office. As Members of Parliament know, the National Audit Office has been quite critical, but it has found that the state's annual accounts for 2020 fairly reflects the state's financial position in all important parts, the economic results and cash flows of the reporting period that ended. The National Audit Office made a note of the fixed assets of the Defence Forces included in the report. The National Audit Office has noted that the organisation of the accounting of the assets of the Defence Forces, as well as the errors in the accounts, still does not make it possible to ensure or ensure that the balance of tangible assets is correct in the consolidated and non-consolidated balance sheet of the State. The Minister of Defence, who has responded to this remark from the National Audit Office, agreed with the observation made by the National Audit Office regarding the organisation of the accounting of the assets of the Defence Forces, as well as with the recommendation to continue to register assets in the fixed assets module, so that a reliable statement can be made at least once a year in the future, which would make it possible to verify that the assets are recorded on the balance sheet. According to the National Audit Office's audit report, the state's economic transactions have been carried out in a substantial part in accordance with the State Budget Act, the National Budget Act 2020 and the State's Supplementary Budget Act 2020 and the National Budget Act of the previous year. The National Audit Office has confirmed that the report on the implementation of the 2020 budget provides reliable information on revenue collected by the state, expenditure incurred, investments and financing transactions. The National Audit Office has noted that the sum totals of the National Budget Act 2020 adopted in the Riigikogu were erroneous. At the same time, the revenue, expenditure, investment and financing budgets of the constitutional institutions, the State Chancellery and the ministries were all correct in the Budget 2020 Act. The National Audit Office was critical of last year's state budget process and explanatory memorandum. As I have confirmed several times before Parliament during the defence of the budget for next year and of the revision of this year's budget, we really want to improve this process. So this draft, which has been submitted to Parliament for the following year, 2022, is better monitored as a whole and the same applies to the explanatory memorandum. I can confirm that the Ministry of Finance is working on improving the budgetary situation, implementing the recommendations of the National Audit Office. I am grateful to the National Audit Office for these recommendations. In order to avoid purely technical errors in budgeting, the information system has also been developed in such a way that the rules governing the control of budgeting and the development of an information system supporting the establishment, execution and cost and management of an activity-based state budget are at the planning stage. In drawing up the explanatory memorandum to the draft state budget for the following year, as has already been said, the proposals submitted by the National Audit Office, as far as possible, were also taken into account and improved in terms of comprehension and comparability of the state budget with the various earlier periods. So, honourable Riigikogu, I would like to ask Parliament to confirm the final report of the state's financial year for 2020. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U306	Thank you. There's some questions for the waitress. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U307	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for this review. I wanted to ask that, since the 2020 report is about a budget that was activity-based, this is the part of a very comprehensive report, which is the tables of performance indicators and actual implementation of action plans. If you look at these metrics, it is estimated that about half of them are fixed at the initial level of 2018 or 2019 and then this metric runs out unchanged until 2023. These metrics also depend on surveys. If, for example, people are now asked how high they value the risk of immigration, in view of the events in Lithuania and Poland, we will get the results of a completely different survey than they do at a stable time. The assessment of several metrics is missing in the table, for example, the effectiveness of government work is no longer measured at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U308	Aivar, time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U309	Do these meters have any meaningful value at all, or are they just placed here to fill in this table?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U310	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for your question. I'm sure the surveyors have a meaningful point. It is no secret that you and I also have a certain different approach to the activity-based budget. I am convinced that the activity-based budget itself, the principle of the activity-based budget, is absolutely reasonable and correct. The fact that objectives are set and that the use of funds is actually planned to reach these objectives is a very grateful and right thing. What I have noticed in this very short period of time when we have implemented an activity-based budget in Estonia is that politicians have decided and, as if they have agreed to move to an activity-based budget, but often setting these same metrics or targets and dimming them, this targeting is largely left to officials, which is not right. The budget is, in any case, a very political document. This sets out not only one year but also, in the longer term, very important targets for the country. I therefore think that the same metrics or objectives that you have pointed out here should also be looked at by sectoral leaders, politicians, ministers with precisely the view that better can always be done. But in principle, I think it is necessary to set such targets. If, indeed, as you say, metrics give the impression that they are simply added as a result of receiving a letter of cross, if that is the case, then of course it has to be reviewed. These metrics and targets must still be substantive.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U311	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U312	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. Yes, the Auditor General has shown us how hundreds of millions have been misled and misled in this calculation. But I now read that there are final budgets and they end with specific numbers, such as 489, and are very specific. I ask you, honourable Minister of Finance, if you are willing to take the poison, that the numbers you are now presenting to us for confirmation are true. I'm not saying strong poison or weak poison.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U313	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I'd rather not take the poison, if you don't mind. We have really tried to do our best to make sure that there are no similar mistakes in the future when we make the budget for next year. I have to clarify or correct your question in this key that the sum totals that have been highlighted were those that had simply become erroneous as a result of the consolidation of different costs. However, as has been said, the own budgets of individual government areas, including constitutional institutions and all ministries, are also correct in the National Budget Act of 2020. In this sense, there should be no impression that the budget for the previous year has actually erred in terms of expenditure or that Parliament has adopted a budget which does not correspond to reality. It's not correct. But yes, we have really done multiple checks when we put together the budget for next year. The governments themselves have done so within their own budget. So I'd like to hope there won't be any more mistakes like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U314	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U315	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. An operational and performance-based budget is actually reasonable, but it is not necessary to break down the budget law, the explanatory statement of the state budget or the annual report in a different way than in the past. It must be a substantive management instrument, then the indicators will also be relevant and the benchmarks will be updated at all times. My question is how to get to it. What is the plan of the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Finance that, instead of the technical change that has taken place in the ministries, there will also be a substantive change so that all ministers around the table can understand why it is an important management instrument and that it will actually be used in ministries to move towards the objectives of the field? What's your plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U316	Thank you. As I answered one earlier question, I consider it very important that the budget is, first of all, a document drawn up in its substance and whose content is drawn up by the substantive heads of the fields, i.e. members of the Cabinet, ministers. It is the most important document in terms of its impact and scope that will form the country's plans for next year and that is why it must be so. I think that a substantial deepening will also help to set targets in such a way that they will ultimately best communicate the real situation and real objectives, as reflected in the budget. Once again, it must be said that the activity-based budget, so that it as a whole is activity-based, we still have a rather new thing. It is probably necessary to give some time to practice with the setting of substantive targets in the course of budgeting and to be taken as something that is really self-evident and exactly as you said in your question, which is actually a management instrument. You have to be demanding. I believe that in time, it will be accepted more and more in substance.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U317	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U318	Good manager! Dear Minister of Finance, There are so many numbers here, and it seems to me that we're actually going to approve here in a corpore pig bag. On the one hand, it's a little anxious that you didn't dare take the lean poison, that these numbers are right here. But my particular question is this. I read here that there are currently 200,000 euros of consolidated animals in Estonia and 100,000 euros of non-consolidated animals. I ask you, Minister, who are these consolidated animals and who are non-consolidated and where, in which areas there are the most consolidated animals in Estonia and where there are the least.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U319	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good questioner! It is true, as you said, that the budget contains quite a lot of figures and requires deepening. I do not think that this is about buying a pig in a bag, especially in your case, since we are talking about the 2020 report and also about the 2020 state budget, which was mainly put together by the current chairman of your party. This is the budget drawn up during the previous government coalition, so I believe that the background and numbers of these figures themselves are, in fact, well known to you from the earlier period when we were processing and discussing this budget in Parliament, also in substantive terms.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U320	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much. We can go to the co-report. Aivar Sõerd, member of the Monetary Commission, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U321	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed the preparation for the first reading of the draft decision "Accepting the National Summary Report for the financial year 2020" at its meeting on 25 October. The Minister of Finance briefed us on the summary report and the results for 2020 and answered questions from the Members of the Commission. Auditor General Janar Holm also attended the meeting of the Monetary Committee, who gave an overview of the opinion of the National Audit Office on the consolidated report for 2020. Indeed, as the Minister told us, the purpose of the summary report of the state's financial year is to give an overview of the achievement of the objectives set in the state budget, the financial position of the state, financial results and cash flows, and to enable the Riigikogu to exercise its control function vis-à-vis the Government of the Republic of Estonia. The National Audit Office's audit report is included in the summary report for the financial year. I will briefly talk about what we discussed at the meeting on 25 October. The Minister also had a slide programme to show us about the consolidated accounts for the financial year. We got this more overview of these numbers and consolidations. Indeed, the report itself consists of four parts: the activity report, the annual accounts, additional information on local authorities and the public sector and government sector. So there's a lot of paperwork. According to the Minister, much attention was paid this time to the reasoned assessment of the National Audit Office. At the same time, this assessment by the National Audit Office has also been a good input in order to review the budgetary process and improve and refine the results. The report is necessary to assess whether the objectives set have been progressed and whether they have been achieved. The Minister also briefed the Commission on key financial indicators, assets and liabilities, revenue-costs and the distribution of performance budgets. In his speech, the Auditor General said that the National Audit Office assesses in particular the accuracy of the annual accounts and the legality of transactions. In general, accounting is well organised in public authorities and at the State Support Services Centre. The report provides reliable information on both the country's financial situation and its financial performance. One of the comments addressed by the National Audit Office was the organisation of the calculation of the assets of the Defence Forces. The Department of Defense has been working on this calculation for a long time. They also have an information system under development that allows transactions in fixed assets to be better reflected. The Auditor General also said that economic transactions are in accordance with the State Budget Act. This is because, since the national budgets for 2020 and 2021 have been made at a high level of generalisation, the next year, 2022, this activity-based view will be more detailed. The report on the implementation of the state budget is correct as regards the aggregates. However, in the course of the audit, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of the Interior could not verify how the costs were distributed between the programmes, based on the calculation of the economic content. Members of the Commission had questions and we had a debate. I asked myself how these expenditure breakdowns are made across programmes. Differing is estimated, but there should be some standard or guidance on how these costs are taken into account in the cost of operations, evaluation should not be arbitrary and should not simply be based on any assessment. The Minister explained that such a guide already exists, it is also available and indeed this guide was sent to the Commission. Regina Vällik of the Ministry explained that when moving to the ABB in 2020, planning was based on economic content as in previous years. But there was an activity-based view. The National Audit Office also has a complaint that the years are not comparable. Indeed, this time in the previous years could not be made sufficiently comparable, as it is a technically complex and time-consuming process. However, the explanatory memorandum to the state budget for 2022, which we currently have on this agenda, has tried to make the data comparable and the problems encountered in practice will be corrected. As far as rules and guidance materials are concerned, in the future, these rules for the breakdown of costs should become more standardised and can be better achieved through comparability. The Minister also stressed that comparability was indeed necessary because it would otherwise be difficult to understand whether funding in one area or another would increase, decrease or remain at the same level. This is also necessary when carrying out compliance checks. Commission Chairman Erki Savisaar pointed out that the metrics by which we measure and assess that the activities have been successful should also be clarified. Riina Sikkut also stressed the need for comparability, as performance-based governance in the public sector needs to be put to work. Okay. I myself asked about the errors that the National Audit Office pointed out in its part. The Auditor General confirmed that there were no errors in the accounts report, the errors were in the state budget law. Chief Accountant Juta Maar added that the errors were in the original state budget. The final budget, which is now presented in the report on the implementation of the state budget in the same way as the initial budget, has corrected these errors. These initial errors are set out in an annex to the report on the implementation of the state budget, which were the errors and how many were the corrections. But the final budget is right and the budget implementation reports are also correct. My colleague Aivar Kokk asked what the role of the state's head accountant was. Chief Accountant Juta Maar explained that she works at the State Support Services Centre, which has consolidated financial accounts held for all state institutions. The Centre shall carry out the collection and compilation of the consolidated reporting of the public sector as a whole. A monthly report on the implementation of the state budget is carried out. Once a year, the State's annual accounts are drawn up, including a report on the implementation of the state budget. Our debate was not very long, and I gave a very detailed overview. The Commission decided unanimously to put the draft on the agenda on Wednesday 10 November 2021, to close the first reading and to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 17 November. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U322	Thank you. I don't see any questions, so we can open negotiations. Negotiation request... Aivar Sõerd. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U323	Thank you, manager. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to briefly highlight a few aspects, which the Minister also spoke about, but which may still need to be emphasised. I am not going to talk about the pros and cons of an activity-based budget, but a few things could still be said for this financial year's report. There are these numbers given, are specified a little bit in this background that preceded this reporting period. According to revised estimates, the national budgets for 2019 and 2018 were already in structural deficit: 1.5% of GDP in 2019, 1.8% of GDP in 2018. Despite good economic growth in comparison with the European Union and other countries, the COVID-19 pandemic period with a relatively large deficit entered. By 2020, when the budget deficit and the debt burden increased, yes, indeed, it was a pandemic year and inevitably the public finances deteriorated. But here's a little bit of a lesson: if 2018 and 2019 were still good years in economic terms, then it was precisely the time when budget buffers should have been collected and strengthened to survive possible difficult times in the future. But it's usually forgotten. It also happened to us that in good times it was forgotten that public finances and state budget buffers should be strengthened. In order to cover the deficit in the 2020 budget, the Estonian state was able to issue bonds and, historically, it was possible to issue long-term bonds on very favourable terms and at lower interest rates than the European Union countries, which had several times the size of our economies, have succeeded. Thanks to Estonian public finances, we managed to obtain loans on favourable terms during difficult times. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U324	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 432 be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 17 November at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U325	Today's 11th item is the Auditor General's overview of the use and management of state assets in 2020-2021. The Commission's assessment of the compatibility of the aid with the internal market is based on the following considerations: The rapporteur is Auditor General Janar Holm. Please! The duration of the report shall be 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U326	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Each year the National Audit Office submits two reports to the Riigikogu for discussion. The first is the audit of the annual report of the state, which has just been discussed in depth by the Minister of Finance, and the second is the annual report on the major problems in public administration. This year, the corona crisis is at the heart of the annual report. First of all, an audit of the annual report of the State. I confirm the words of the Minister of Finance that the annual accounts for the previous year are, according to the National Audit Office, correct in an important part, i.e. it correctly and fairly reflects the state's financial position, economic performance and cash flow. According to the National Audit Office, the state's economic transactions are also substantially in accordance with the State Budget Act and the state budget for 2020, which has been adopted as a law. But this is certainly not a surprise to the National Audit Office or to the Riigikogu. I have also pointed out in the past that the annual state budget law has reached a level of generalisation which makes it quite impossible to break this law in addition to understanding the state budget. It is to be welcomed that the Minister of Finance has initiated an amendment to the basic law on the state budget. The aim is to make the state budget a meaningful document. Yeah, the Ministry's intentions are good. Yes, the budgetary picture will be more detailed when approving this draft. Unfortunately, the problems related to the state budget are much more serious. I am, unfortunately, convinced that even when the new draft is adopted, the information provided in the state budget does not really give the managers or the public a clear knowledge of where the state budget money is going and what the impact of this financed activity is. As a result, there will also be no financial management in ministries based on programmes and the structure of the state budget. Rather, more writing is being done, the result of which no one needs. One budget is considered to be for real and practical life and the other in order for reality to be translated into the form required by the basic law of the budget. I dare say I know what I am talking about, because I have had the honour of being the chancellor of the Ministry of Education for nine years, and in my time it was the Ministry of Education that first tested the operating budget. The imaginations created by the ABB enthusiasts are tempting, but merely describing the theoretical advantages does not replace reality and practical needs. In real life, we do not see the advantages promised by an activity-based state budget. Unfortunately, there has been a loss of comprehension and comparability. The current budget is activity-based only in terms of name, not in practice. Of course, anything that involves a great deal of action, such as the drafting of this budget, can be called activity-based. By the way, neither does the government use the budget option that is brought here to the members of the Riigikogu in its budget discussions. The government is still talking about specific amounts and specific costs, not programmes. Since the Riigikogu receives the budget in the form it can, the Riigikogu has its own choice. Parliament itself has approved the current basic law. However, only making the basic law more meaningful will not make the budget even if the budget is drawn up in even more depth and detail in the future. The law provides a framework that must be filled with understandable and meaningful content, while maintaining flexibility in the budget. This requires strong and meaningful leadership in the Ministry of Finance, the Government as a whole, as well as in the Riigikogu. The National Audit Office continues to be happy to be able to support its knowledge and experience when Parliament is now undertaking a thorough reform of the budget. The second report, which is discussed here, usually deals with the current problems in the functioning of the state. This time, the functioning of the country in the corona crisis is clearly under review. During the last two years, the National Audit Office has produced and published several audits, reviews and memos concerning aspects of resolving the corona crisis. These have been discussed by the Special Committee on State Budget Control and other committees of the Riigikogu. The review before you today brings together the main elements of these reports. The third wave on the broom shows that the lessons of the first and second corona waves have not lost their timeliness. These five important lessons of the Coronary Apandemia are in the report, you can get acquainted with them. However, I am talking about two more pandemics: an analysis of a pandemic that is exhausting, but does not lead anywhere, and an abandoned pandemic of responsibility. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The origins of many of our problems today are not in current decisions, but in the past. What has been decided or left undecided in the past. The consequences are now felt. Estonia marched against the corona crisis with the knowledge of government agencies that the Health Board is unable to man the crisis management structure and is unable to deal with the crisis. This was the last time the Health Board had been there in 2018, two years before the outbreak of the crisis, said that the state almost did not have health care supplies, including personal protective equipment, that the ability of ambulances and hospitals in the event of a crisis caused by an infectious disease was not known, etc. But that cry for help was like a warning signal from the Health Board's cold warehouse that didn't get anywhere. The health department was left alone with its tasks and problems. The result was that, as the crisis deepened, the designated authority turned out to be in need of help. On the other hand, when we entered the crisis, we had pockets full of various crisis analyses over the years. They described quite precisely what would happen during the epidemic. One example: The preparedness gaps concerning vaccination were already identified ten years ago. A description of the problem of vaccination in 2011 drawn up by the Health Board sounds like an excerpt from some newspapers in 2021. The analysis shows that in the event of the spread of dangerous communicable diseases, difficulties may arise in the operational conduct of mass vaccination, the problem is the time-consuming identification of risk groups, information and referral to vaccination sites, the limited capacity of primary vaccineers, i.e. family doctors, and the negative attitude of the population towards the need for vaccination. Among other things, the analysis drew attention to the problems of identifying close contacts with regard to the rigid attitudes of the data protection authority, etc. What happened after this analysis was completed? Instead of solving the problems presented in the analysis, the following risk assessments were increasingly born over the years. They further described the outstanding problems already known. Why, however, did the identification of problems not result in decisions on solutions or allocation of resources? I suggest a few possible reasons. First of all, it is clear that it is difficult for decision-makers to channel money into hypothetical future problems, especially when urgent running problems raining through the door and window every day. Secondly, there has been no strong political pressure to decide, as preparation for crises has not been a priority issue for governments. It is much more popular to offer the public new different measures. This is unfortunately the case where essential basic functions have been overlooked. The subject is seemingly technical and, in a situation of peace, remains too distant for ordinary people from their everyday problems. Not to mention that a large number of problems related to preparing for emergencies have been protected by the wall of state secret, and the actual poor state of affairs has been hidden from the public and also from the Riigikogu. Unfortunately, instead of solving already known problems, the disease of continuous analysis is not just a matter of crisis management. It has spread as a pandemic to many areas where the public or stakeholders are waiting for decisions, but decisions are not taken. Decisions mean difficult choices, or a high need for money, in a situation where there is a great deal of questioners. Whoever worked harder in the state system knows that if there is a political or administrative intention to slow down something, there is often a map of the need for analysis. And no one can complain that the problems are not being dealt with. We're on it. We're on it. We're on it. Continuous analysis has become a kind of cover, behind which it is good to hide decisions that have not been made. At the time, the need for administrative reform was analysed in an endless manner, although this need had long been clear. Now, for example, much has been said about increasing the financial autonomy of local authorities, but it is moving on with difficulty. Despite the fact that the Ministry of Finance has done all kinds of calculations, they are still sent back every six months to analyse and calculate something. Again, in fact, decision-making is only a matter of political will. Examples of undecided analysis flows could be further provided. This type of tactic also includes, on a number of occasions, plans to develop draft laws. Their real aim is to give the impression that they want to solve the problem, but in reality, such an intention to develop is designed only to slow down the subject. If there is will, everything goes quickly, if not, the subject will be directed to an endless circle of analysis. It should be borne in mind that the Ministry of Finance has also stated that they intend to initiate the development plan next year as regards the fundamental amendment of the State Budget Act. I looked at the last two government action programmes, both of which are not exactly under-represented in the analysis. At present, the word "analysis" is found 173 times and the previous government action programme quite 300 times. There is no doubt that some things need to be analysed. Good analysis is helpful. However, there is an urgent need for an agreement that any issue identified in the most important analysis or study should be followed up by a decision at an appropriate level. A decision as to whether a problem will be resolved or whether the problem is serious, but it will not be dealt with. Or it is decided that the problem is not serious and therefore is not dealt with. Then it is clear what is being dealt with and what is not and who made the decision. This also means that it is clear who is responsible for this decision. It is possible to channel a large amount of resources used to detect the same problems over and over again by means of analyses to really solve these same problems. Good listeners! There is also reason to talk about responsibility this year. There is often one mush and cabbage with responsibility. This year it became clear, for example, that public authorities may have tasks for which the public authority is not responsible itself, but rather its contractual partners, builders, architects and others. So there's something amazing about collective responsibility. When such thinking begins to appear in public administration, things are bad, because when everyone is responsible, nobody is really responsible. Responsibility needs to be made concrete again. Everyone needs to know what his mission and responsibility is. If you don't know, it'll be very good in crises. In addition to collective responsibility, the crisis also highlighted the signs of abandoned responsibility. One small but eloquent example has to do with the drafting of the same annual report in your hands. In the report, the National Audit Office points out that during the period prior to the crisis, the Ministry of Social Affairs left the Health Board largely alone with its tasks. After sending the report to the Ministry for review of the text, the National Audit Office received an unexpected reply at official level that the statement made in the report about the central role of the Ministry of Social Affairs in regulating the crisis in the area of government is incorrect. The officials of the Ministry had worked hard in their feedback to the National Audit Office to shift responsibility from the Ministry of Social Affairs to the Health Board, quoting a number of provisions with references to the responsibility of the Health Board. However, the National Audit Office quoted and quotes in its report literally what is stated in the Emergency Act: crisis management in its area of government is organised by the respective Ministry. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! What we have experienced in the current crisis has taught us all many lessons. They should be taken to the future. The aim of the National Audit Office was not to search in the past or to find out who did it, but to understand what should be done differently in the future. Misleading is human and mistakes can be learned. The report of the National Audit Office says that the biggest mistake would be not to learn from the mistakes that have been made so far, because new crises are coming. We do not yet know what the nature of these crises is or when they will arrive, but they will not be missed. On this optimistic note, I will finish and thank you for listening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U327	Thank you very much. Now we can ask questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U328	Good manager! Dear Auditor General, Thank you for your excellent work first. But we were here one morning discussing that there was also a local government report that thought they were going to do worse. They were strongly supported, but in fact only eight municipalities went wrong, the revenues decreased. Now I got the answer to who the eight are, and it turns out that Kohtla-Järve, Narva and Sillamäe on the one hand and Mulgi Parish on the other. I'm not going to name those little Anijai and some more. But can you tell me what connects the great cities of Ida-Virumaa to Kohtla-Järvet, Narva and Sillamäed, where the revenue was significantly reduced during the corona crisis, and at the same time Mulgi municipality, where the same thing happened?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U329	Thank you. Well, I guess that's the main thing that connects them, that they've lost revenue. These eight municipalities out of all 79 municipalities were the ones where revenue actually decreased during the crisis. In others, they did not decrease.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U330	I would point out that all ambassadors have one question. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U331	Thank you. Dear Auditor General! You have rightly and fairly pointed out that the activity-based budget has few consumers, that even ministries continue to make decisions based on the budget broken down by economic content, and that budget decisions are made on a resource-based basis, not on an operational basis. Perhaps it will take into account whether and how much money to give, but it will not ask what service or programme it is required for. I am asking you that such unnecessary activity-based exercises involve quite a lot of resources; in the case of this activity-based budget, the cost side of the entire budget is divided into 240 programmes and services. The price of each service will be calculated, handled by dozens, if not hundreds of officials, through the development of an information system, with long and complex instructions. Does anyone appreciate the amount of time and working hours, resources needed for this activity-based information collection and systematization, which is used little, for this activity-based report? Is this resource going to the right place?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U332	I'm sure it'll take some time. As you actually rightly referred to, or at least I have read it out of your question, this is not a completely discarded time either, because, within this process, of course, at least at the level of planning, it also makes sense to what purpose this money is used for. But I'm sure it'll take some time. We also have a number of ministries complaining that they do not fully understand why they have to do this in the form they do. But I think it is more important not to start measuring now how much it costs, but to make this budget in a reasonable way, in a more reasonable way in the future, so that there is not much empty work.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U333	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U334	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, We know that people have different attitudes, some make decisions more pessimisticly from the base and others more optimisticly from the base and so on. You have an excellent example here that this year's forecast of tax revenues has actually been made on a pessimistic basis, but the result is excellent. All this analysis, which you have submitted, is very useful, but I am asking whether Estonia is any different from the other Member States of the European Union, its neighbours. Do we have lessons that others don't have? Have you had time to deal with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U335	Thank you. Estonia is not alone in the crisis and all countries are currently in crisis. If you meant with the question of whether others have experienced the same, yes, I think that a lot of countries have experienced this. As far as preparedness for crises is concerned, I think I dare say that almost all countries can sum up, that they were not prepared for this crisis in the form that this crisis came from more, who is less, and I think everyone will learn from it. This, of course, does not mean going to the extreme, stocking everything in terms of stocks, for example, but it could be clear that, if there is a crisis experience, how to deal with this crisis in the future, who exactly controls it, and what are the main problems that stood out there. I think that all the other things that we have pointed out in this report also concern communication, or that concerns vaccination, more or less there are problems everywhere. Why? Because this is a crisis, and that is what it means that people's lives are disturbed and not everything is happening just as smoothly. In the case of the crisis, it must be understood that when the crisis is at hand, there is a change in life, everyone must compromise on their conveniences. The point of this report, too, was that we will see some places here where it will be possible to do better in the future in the next crisis and here you can learn. This does not mean that we will have no problems in the future. It is, however, difficult for all countries, including Estonia, during the crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U336	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U337	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Auditor General, It's understandable that it's difficult and everybody's having a hard time, and everyone's having problems. As the Chairman of the Corruption Commission, I am very concerned about this chapter in your report, which talks about those business grants where everything was not well, it was not all clean. A number of cases have been brought to both the Commission and the law enforcement bodies that I manage, both in relation to KredEx and in relation to the Rural Promotion Foundation, etc. All these violations and the "non-regular" distributions of money to those who do not have to get, and those who have to get, do not get administrative procedures and other such things and even corrupt criminal transactions, can all of this be written down in the same way in the face of the crisis, that it is difficult for everyone? Or are there things that are deeper about just too much money coming at the wrong time to share it with our authorities? How can you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U338	Thank you. First of all, I would still say in a positive way what concerns the economic measures or the support measures that have been implemented. We have also pointed out in the report that the wage subsidy implemented through the unemployment fund was a very good measure. I would also stress that we made a comprehensive overview of how the money of the Enterprise Development Foundation, KredEx and Rural Promotion Foundation went where, probably by turnover numbers, the problem was the biggest. Yeah, well, you could say it did. Not everything can be measured very accurately in times of crisis. There were problems. We have done, as you well know, a report on the Rural Promotion Foundation, where we believe that perhaps we should have better thought about the way in which the money is distributed, and also in the case of large-scale investment grants, where it was simply a question of transparency of this decision, which will certainly contribute much better to fairer treatment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U339	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U340	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear Auditor General! In my opinion, the crisis cannot be resolved if there is no courage to take responsibility, and it seems to me that today, in fact, there is a deficit of this responsibility. It may be reflected in this endless analysis to hide this responsibility. But if we take a vaccination plan, which has not actually been confirmed by the Minister, and which is like a plan, and just as there is no plan, if we look at it being carried out, and if we all know how it has been said, then in this light, it is not strange that the Ministry of Social Affairs does not see its central role in resolving the health crisis. How can we ensure that there is still this courage to take responsibility and that this crisis can be resolved? What should be changed?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U341	I'm gonna start from a distance. I think that, in times of crisis, we all have to accept that mistakes are made because, in times of crisis, urgent decisions have to be made. The worst part is that you don't dare make quick decisions. I think that these quick decisions have been made, but if we are too critical of all the decisions made during the crisis and disregard that this is not a calm time, then the courage to take responsibility will disappear at some point. Then what happens is that no employees are found in the institutions to deal with this crisis. I think one very big problem is: if we are talking about, for example, a cold room where vaccines and medicines were spoiled, then the main question is who is responsible. I think this is certainly an extremely important question, who is to blame. But for me, the first question is what happens to these drugs, where they're gonna be kept. Let's fix this. And then you should see who's guilty. Moreover, a distinction should be made between responsibility and guilt. These are completely different things. It is the responsibility of the institution to do something. It must be very clear. The next moment is where it has to be assessed that if something has been done wrong, was it guilty of what were the roles of the other parties. But I fear that this time of crisis is where, with too sudden criticism, we have achieved a situation where we are no longer encouraged to assume this responsibility. I'm talking more about the level of officials right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U342	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U343	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Dear Auditor General! Your review of 8 November throws a criticism to the point that informing people must create clarity, not confusion. This criticism is also demonstrated by the meeting of our group today with the Head of the Alarm Centre. He made it very clear that the various stages of this crisis are clearly well illustrated by the fact that the national hotline 1247 has been in operation, to a large extent, precisely for the fact that, if there is an additional restriction or arrangement, this phone will start to ring indefinitely, because people often do not understand the content of these arrangements. But my question to you is whether, in your opinion, this crisis has led us to see that our human capital or our people at different workplaces may have another major bottleneck. When we talk about nursing homes, especially those services that must be guaranteed, but there are problems in filling these jobs because there is a shortage of money. Did this, too, come up somehow with this crisis for you?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U344	What was really about the lack of people was about the same time last year, when we dealt more specifically with the shortage of family doctors, rescue officers and police officers, the so-called regional shortage. This is a major problem in Estonia. It is precisely the lack of people who would be prepared to participate in the provision of these vital services, and certainly the crisis here will also have its impact on precisely the positions you referred to here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U345	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U346	Thank you very much for your interesting presentation. I would argue with you a little bit about this activity-based budgeting. I have been engaged in activity-based budgeting in a number of organisations for many years and I cannot imagine that this could be any different. Because it's very simple: the Rescue Board, for example, how many cars and how many houses they have. There's a budget, count cars, count houses. But this activity-based budgeting starts there, how many trips they made, whether they reached all trips quickly enough and whether the population is satisfied with their activities, whether the rescuers are satisfied with their working conditions. In fact, after all, we are ultimately deciding on the effectiveness of the use of money according to these qualitative indicators. The people of Estonia are most satisfied with the activities of the Rescue Board. How else would you measure important objectives, if not on an operational basis?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U347	Thank you. I am not against ABB. In principle, it is possible to make a budget in every way. An activity-based budget can also be clear, and the benefits of an activity-based budget are certainly exactly what you mentioned. I would point out that, if this were the case, as you describe, that this information would exist and be decided on the basis of it, but that is precisely the problem that is not to be decided. I think that, if you move in this direction, this is certainly a very good way to approach the budget. But now the question is, can we actually do this, should we start doing it in smaller pieces, start somewhere with smaller programs? That's the point. I would rather suggest, as has been said, that it must be learned. But that's when you have to learn. Let's start over somewhere. We make small pieces on a project basis, why we do some projects, aim for it and get bigger and bigger. In fact, I fear that some things cannot be budgeted on an operational basis, because it does not seem logical in the decision-making process. There are also examples of many discussions in this Chamber where it is very difficult to find this connection. Maybe it won't be a problem if we can't put everything under this goal. But let's put as much as we can and make sure we all actually understand it. That would be the solution, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U348	Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U349	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. There's no picture ahead. Mr President and Mr Janar Holm. I do not have a question, I just really want to acknowledge not only today, but also before and after, you and your institution's very constructive analysis and proposals in the very difficult situation we are in at various stages. I can only hope that these analyses, these objective proposals, will be implemented in the hands of those who are actually responsible for the life of Estonia and for the fate of the people of Estonia. Thank you and your institution very much. I wish you a lot of strength! This is not easy, and we are looking forward to further advice.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U350	There was no question, was there? Let's keep going. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U351	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Auditor General, I also agree, of course, with everything the previous speaker said here, and I commend and want the Auditor General and the National Audit Office in every way. But I was a little short of this positive message, both in your report and in today's speech, that something must still have been done correctly. You bring out a number of mistakes that have been made, but the conclusion is that Estonia has done quite well. Then perhaps there could also be a few points that Estonia has done right. Now, in the round of questions-answers, some things came up [out], like this unemployment benefit measure and such things. But can you perhaps say some, I don't know, five things that Estonia did right in this crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U352	Thank you. In fact, the unemployment benefit measure was also mentioned as positive in this report. Now, when we read exactly what we wrote, what we wanted to say, our goal was not to look for the guilty or to pry in the past, but to sum up what we wanted to do better. Not everything can be prevented, but something better can be done. Therefore, I may have had a little bit of a hold on this very critical approach to how the National Audit Office has completely destructively assessed crisis management throughout this period. No, it's not! We have made proposals to take from this crisis for the next crisis. What's positive? In my opinion, crises should be assessed at all after the crisis has ended. The crisis assessment we can say about the first wave and we can say about the second wave, but the third one is still early in my opinion. If we imagine ourselves in the first crisis, we had many different doubts. The crisis was over, let's see that actually, when we compare ourselves with other countries, it didn't go badly at all. Of course, it is not good to hear it from people who lost a loved one because of this disease, but did not go badly. Let's think about another wave. We were critical, there were moments, yes, where perhaps we could have done the same or the other way around, but it didn't really go badly either, compared to other countries. You could always do better. Now, to the third wave of crisis, I think, it would be fair to make an assessment, instead, I do not know when this crisis will end, I think it will be falling in a few months' time. And it doesn't have to be the National Audit Office. I think this is an opportunity for all of us, and also for everyone in this Chamber, to take a stand.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U353	I'll remind the ambassadors that one question can be asked. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U354	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I didn't see a direct assessment of it now, maybe, but I still have a little bit left to scratch at the fact that we gave the entire decision-making power to the Health Board in the spring of last year. With this, both the Ministry and the Riigikogu have inadvertently reduced themselves. We did all this in good faith. Although I was quite critical and skeptical at the time too, could we have been able to carry out any other means of parliamentary supervision in the situation where we are at the moment? Was this one of our premature human mistakes in good faith?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U355	I cannot take any position on the amendments decided by the Riigikogu. I think that this is the position adopted by all of this at this point in time by the best knowledge and by the majority. What I would say aside is: I think it is actually sensible what the Secretary of State proposed to the Government of the Republic about the beginning of July to start drafting a draft law on crisis management, where, in the case of crises involving long-term and diverse areas, the government would take the lead in the crisis with the support of the State Chancellery. In every way we support it, we have offered it before, in 2018. This makes perfect sense because a small, narrow sector institution cannot and it is very difficult for it to take decisions in other areas. So that would make sense, and the Secretary of State has also proposed it to the government. And the government, as far as I know, has approved it too. So it makes perfect sense to go that way. But in the case of minor crises, I think it makes perfect sense for the Health Board to continue to deal with crisis management. It is important that he also obtains the necessary resources for this, because, as I pointed out, looking back, he did not always receive this resource. It is now the consequence that the government that is responsible for resolving the crisis will be beaten at all times, even though there are, in fact, many things that could have been done the other way around in the past.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U356	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U357	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! After we have listened here to the daily congratulations of the representatives of the Government of the Republic and the Ministry of Social Affairs on their work, your criticism on such a high level is basically like a fresh breath of air, which shows that reality is quite different. Because of the limited time I can't have a long conversation here, I'll take your report off at any point and look at the vaccination. For example, half the table for vaccination coverage has been reddished. This shows that there has been a gap in the current published vaccination plan. Perhaps, in conclusion, we say that the most important thing in managing the crisis is the clear management of vaccination, but this has not been done. Under normal circumstances, the builder gets kicked away if he doesn't put a mixture between the stones. What is your opinion, should we at least replace the head of the Ministry of Social Affairs here in order to improve the situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U358	Thank you. This is the kind of human resources policy you have to deal with in this Chamber. I would say this about meeting these vaccination targets, as I said in my speech, that the fact that this could be the case was already seen in the 2011 risk analysis of the Health Board. It was written in there, these problems. Although, yes, I admit, and this is not a hindsight, as is the case with the National Audit Office from time to time, but already in February and March and rolling, we pointed out that the vaccine will collect and be able to vaccinate more quickly, vaccinate those who knock on windows and doors. I guess that wouldn't be much higher then, but I think a few red cells would have been green.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U359	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U360	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I would like to come back to the activity-based budget you talked about. You reminded me that you were one of those who experimented with an activity-based budget, and you were not too optimistic about it afterwards. At the same time, you mentioned that, in fact, the ministries make budgets just like they used to. But have you analysed how much time and energy it takes for ministerial officials to put this budget normally drawn up within the framework of programmes and action plans, etc.? Have you analyzed it, or do you have such an analysis planned?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U361	Thank you. In fact, Aivar Sõerd asked a similar question about these costs. We haven't analyzed it. We know that ministries are struggling with this issue, let's say, some ministries officials. I think that the question is not so much what a cost it is, but how meaningful the actions we do are. It could, of course, be approached in such a way as to say what the cost of this current activity is, but I think you might rather wonder if it makes sense, not only in terms of money, but also in terms of content.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U362	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U363	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Here, a moment ago, we were talking about vaccination, and I guess vaccination is the only solution to come out of this crisis and to avoid serious incidents. You also said that and I have read these proposals from the summer, I think there was something in July and perhaps in August, where you wrote what measures could be taken to increase vaccination. Do you have any new proposals on this newly presented and transferred analysis in today's circumstances, in the third wave where we are today? We have reached a difficult situation where everyone who has wanted has been vaccinated and there are those who are afraid or fundamentally opposed. Do you have any good suggestions here on how to grow this number?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U364	Thank you. In fact, I already presented certain problems to the Minister of Social Affairs in February. I think that the main task or challenge will be how to build up this vaccination system. We know that the third 'vaccinating round' is currently underway, and probably this is perhaps a longer-term issue. Here we need a good, strong, functioning system where we need to take into account that this vaccination may remain in our lives for some time. We pointed out this already in March that we are thinking that we do not know very much about this vaccine how it will work in the future. So I think now would be a good time in a crisis, but now would be a reasonable time to think about how to build this vaccination system. Otherwise there's a bit of design, a little bit of programming, but there could actually be a functioning long-term system.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U365	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U366	Thank you to the President of the sitting and thank you very much to the Auditor General for this presentation. I am interested in the fact that, since you are a lawyer from the Agency, in fact, the Auditor General has the opportunity to look at the impact of interpreting the legal framework or law on how decisions are taken, for example, in regulating the same crisis. I am specifically asking about international [experience], for example. I understand that today you met a Polish official. What is it in other countries that we can learn because the legal framework seems, in fact, to be very different in order to solve the same crisis? Let it be the same case, for example, that a decision is taken in a neighbouring country, Latvia, that the whole public sector and, as far as I know, the private sector will make vaccination compulsory. France has done this. Or some other different measures trying to regulate the crisis. What would be the impact of the so-called legal framework and do we have such data on how other countries have managed, from which we might learn?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U367	Estonia has its own legal system and its own constitution and it is very difficult to lift the right directly. After all, Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise has done a great deal of work on this subject, including dealing with everything concerning personal rights issues, very intensively in government meetings. I think that, unfortunately, the legal system is very central in this country and can be learned from experience, but there must always be an assessment of what limits our constitution has allowed for the introduction of one or another solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U368	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U369	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Auditor General, Thank you very much for this material and its very objective analysis. I agree with you about vaccination, like you're bringing out here. In the spring, the seizure slowed, although there was a vaccine and there were people who wanted vaccination, but there was a lack of organisation. Family doctors were deprived of certain opportunities [and were given to] large centers. I also put a question like this to the Prime Minister today in Question Time. This could be seen as teaching material to prepare for the next crisis. The Prime Minister took that idea with him. At the same time, changes come when it is sometimes acknowledged that misbehaved, and mistakes have been made. Just as you said in your report, anyone who does can be wrong, but admitting mistakes is human. The Minister in charge of the field practically speaks to the death of all the ambassadors who ask questions, but he hardly ever confesses to mistakes. How do you feel that admitting mistakes would be the way to finding a solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U370	Thank you. I can't comment on whether or not the Minister of Health and Labour recognises mistakes, but I think at least accepting mistakes is the first way to understand how to do it the other way around. Once again, there is a great deal of unpredictable, very much ignorance about vaccines in this crisis. So a little more acceptable to these mistakes in times of crisis. Otherwise, no decisions will be made. The worst part is that in the fear of making a mistake, decisions are never made. This does not mean that decisions should be made lightly. But decisions must be made, and certainly, as you rightly point out, admitting a mistake for yourself is the first way to take the next step.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U371	I don't think the questions are over, but those who wanted to ask have run out of questions. Thank you, Janar Holm! Now we can go to the negotiations. The speeches can be made by representatives of the political groups. The first to sign up for the Reform Party is Jürgen Ligi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U372	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, With the Auditor General and his team, it is always interesting to exchange ideas and the pleasure of agreeing to the basics, but it is even more a pleasure to sometimes argue, because it is interesting and his appointments may need to be completed in some places. First of all, of course, this presentation was surprisingly abstract. Just talking about responsibilities and things leaves this particular problem a little shadow, hints of these things cannot really be discussed. Plus, Mr. Holm, the headlines are still alive. When the Auditor General's text becomes the title that he destroyed the crisis management, it should also have been the tone of this report, that he did not, he did not destroy it. Yeah, fortunately, Janar mentioned that. He mentioned it on TV, but it's gone missing. Timing is always important. The fact that the Auditor General is actually looking at the past and, in this case, mostly last year, has not remained the sound of the present, because he has assured me that he is talking about the first and second waves in this review of the corona, not the third. I would not be talking about this form of state budget right now, because I think this is a pompous issue simply because, compared to the modest nature of the interest of the members of the Riigikogu in the budget, it does not matter how much they understand it exactly. I have no problems with understanding, I say frankly, and I think that the activity-based budget is actually usable, as the Auditor General said, but just these interests are so small and the big picture goes so badly in Riigikogu discussions that I do not focus on this right now. Go on. Since it was so abstract, I have to help the Auditor General to concretise a little bit. I thought there was a huge problem with money during crisis management. If the Minister of Finance informs the Riigikogu that this money is going somewhere, that he is not going to the molehole, it should, frankly, receive criticism from the Auditor General. If we have criminal cases, Porto Franco is definitely a criminal case, if we've been given money to the rural community just to hear that the bank's the first thing to take the money is spring sowing, and for this reason, they're gonna give their sausage, they're gonna be taken over by the government. It's lame, it's corrupt, Riigikogu taunting. All in all, there have been problems with the MES. There have never been any problems with spring sowing. If in KredEx, which is designed to leverage, give guarantees and put banks' money into circulation, it happens that money will just stop because banks will be presented with ridiculously risky conditions, and then the Minister of Finance will say that banks will have to give it, and they will not give it, then there is a problem. The money stood at the head of the Auditor General's attention it could get. But I understand he's admitted it in other contexts that it's not really good. In cooperation with him, the head of the State Budget Control Commission, I have these things on my mind. Now, I really liked a new point of criticism in this presentation, which I myself felt very well, that local governments, municipalities, were given money about. It was like sharing a sausage like that again, so let's give it to the local governments, and our minister can tell us something. In fact, it was not the self-governings who were suffering from the crisis; in fact, it was a huge burden and it is the state, the health system, that has so far been the case. In the case of taxes, too. In fact, in the case of municipalities, this setback was not directly so that it could be said calmly that the municipality... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U373	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U374	Thank you. ... not a social risk group, he's part of the country and we don't just have to give because it seems to be some kind of lobby to support and whose popularity to share popularity. This talk of decision analysis, I agree with that. Abstractly. But it's going to be very abstract. One that has gone wrong in this government's criticism, which I share to a very large extent in the newspaper, in the case of both governments, communication is screwed up. Then how the scientific council is like a free radical has over time shared its views, then the members of the scientific council have [shared] their views, then the Health Board is doing some sort of panic interview and then the people don't understand anything. Then there are different ministers, then different ministers post before the decision. It's been a chronic problem, I admit it, but let's just say it's gotten better. Indeed, right now, I think the public already understands where this decision-making place is and where the personal opinions of these professors or officials are with some setbacks. Last time it came from the Health Department, it's like there's going to be some kind of closure, this news has gone out, actually the government hasn't planned anything like this. I agree with that, but yes, the decision, as such, that what it is, is completely caught in the middle of it. If the government decides not to make this decision, it is often a more painful decision than simply deciding to lock up and shut things down because the public insists. A much stronger decision is to be able to keep society freer than public opinion thinks. I say that this time to the government's praise, I generally don't praise governments. Both governments have received a hand at some point, including during the second wave. In the first time, it was stuffy, talk about goose fat, how there's too much of a coroner's death, and that's all. It was hysterical, flawed, unsustainable. It was pretty clear it wasn't working. That we have the choice of whether money or life is not good for anything, it is unintelligent and frightening only, but in fact no government can speak or think like that. But in the end, yes, it has been tried to learn to live with the corona, and that has finally been the right attitude for both governments. At the moment, the right attitude is to divide people into vaccinees and non-vaccines and to treat them according to the real risks they bear. Vaccination as a process in itself, I have also been critical, but I have not considered it to be the basic thing for which to bag the government, because he has still been very synchronised with the actual vaccine accumulation. I forgive a lot of things, and I leave Tanel Kiige alone in that sense, so I'd rather protect him. Yes, there have been some struggles, but in general, the problem now is that vaccines are no longer available, that the government does not offer vaccines, that there are problems elsewhere. But yes, once again, in general, I am soulful in the texts of the National Audit Office and I admit that there is a great deal of value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U375	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U376	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, It's good to be here after Jürgen. The position depends on the seat. After all, Jürgen used to be the chairman of our committee, and I remember how we worked. First of all, thank the National Audit Office for its excellent work. We have been discussing this in the Commission for quite a long time already and all these cases of the corona crisis. So, in fact, this committee, as I have said, could be a special committee on control of the government's corona policy. So if you start now from the positive. Valdo Randpere here thought they weren't talking for some reason, but I'm talking. In fact, you all remember how it started. I also washed kefir packages, maybe some [other] also washed, and other things. Fear was great at first, I don't know what's coming, plague, etc. Everything was unexpected and perhaps more than needed was done and perhaps more money was spent, including for local authorities, to know how it was going. But the result is excellent now, with the economy in mind. Remember what was said at the time, how economies collapse and all that, but the result was that Estonia's performance in 2020 among the 27 countries of the European Union was one of the best, a fall of only 5.9%, and in the first half of this year we are again in a better position to rise than the average in the European Union. So it's clearly positive. Hundreds of millions have come to the Treasury, and soon the budget will go to 15 billion even, and the public debt will still be 18% for the European red lamp. So it's all positive. There's a lot of negative on the other hand, and I don't want to be black and white here. The Auditor General has said very well that we marched into a crisis knowing what our position is really like. The situation was rather sad. 2011, 2013, 2015, 2018 The Health Board was also aware that we were unable to cope. We didn't know what kind of crisis was coming. It was known. At the same time, we have written a huge number of all kinds of documents and everything else, and now suddenly the crisis came and everything changed. I am not sure at all how we will deal with the next crisis, any of us will not know what it is and what it will do. But these 'not quite positive' things are the five lessons that this report illustrates figuratively. By the way, Prime Minister Kallas was probably today, the days are fast, yes, I think today he said that he ordered this report, the Auditor General made this report with his team, and now he's being beaten with this club. Yeah, it was right here today. About the kind of talk that the Auditor General is such a sneaky and the government's sitting doesn't say anything, but now he's giving him a club and the opposition's beating him up. You didn't hear me, Mart, but he didn't get a comment today. I don't think that's the way to talk. The opposition always uses and should use [the opportunity] to draw attention to things, because the situation is actually quite a cripple. During the current government twice, under Kaja Kallas' leadership, we have made a so-called world record. It's gone back a little bit now, but all this communication and these things aren't gonna work anywhere. The Health Board has been groaning about things, now it is not until 17 November that the Alert Centre will deal with these answers, even in writing, which is given to the Health Board 300 each day. I realized that a little time was needed...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U377	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U378	Thank you. In this regard, these signals have indeed been very contradictory. I'm not going to read all those five, all of you, I think. These lessons here have been described politely. In fact, it could be said, for example, that the third lesson could be worded in this way: the country has not been able to explain the need for vaccination to people, has not created the means and processes to manage it adequately. But I would like to remind you again: in our committee, these sessions have been innumerable. For example, Dr. Vallikivi, head of family doctors, told us how May 5th, or May 15th, was ordered by the Ministry of Health to rest your feet on the vaccination site. And they did, the 425 list of family doctors were resting on foot for a few months, because then they were, remember, a man like Seer and they were big campaign vaccinations. They just wasted some time they could've taken advantage of. This is one small example of the fact that these signals have really been very contradictory. The result is where we are now, and I think that we have twice made a world record this year under the Prime Minister's leadership, well, doesn't that show the best thing. But now, if we come back to this fundamental issue, the same activity-based budget, we cannot talk about it now, that such intelligibility has clearly decreased and that comparability has also decreased. Here Mr Sõerd mentioned that one of the many metrics, but there is no measure to assess the efficiency and smartness of the government, which is, like, lost in the meantime. So on the one hand, I would like to thank the National Audit Office. It is one institution that constantly and very effectively reflects. This report, look, there are 24 pages only, sums up all that stuff. But the question that I had left, and which the Auditor General did not answer, was that only eight municipalities really lost revenue. The 200 million government gave it to me, just in case, to decrease and about the same amount you got, didn't they? But it was down to eight. We might wonder why only the large towns of Ida-Viru and the municipality of Mulgi, for example, were reduced, others were not reduced. It is such a rhetorical question to colleagues that which combines these things, that why this happened on that side, but most others did not. So an interesting lie that is always interesting to read and think about, and not only in black and white to think that someone is here evil and someone is... because in fact we are responsible for everything. Remember, just recently it was said that we don't even know if the numbers that are in the state budget are right or whether hundreds of millions of people are flying this or this way. So I hope it is not in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U379	Thank you. A procedural question. Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U380	Thank you. This is not so much a question as the mention of my name. My colleague, Peeter Ernits, worried whether I listened to what Prime Minister Kaja Kallas said today in Question Time because I was not in the Chamber. I wasn't in the hall, but since there's a long-distance hearing, I did listen at home. It was just there that the EKRE ambassadors attacked yesterday that the work of the National Audit Office largely says that the current government could not manage and the problems were there. But, in fact, Kaja Kallas tried to explain it, and it has been said here that this audit, however, has a great deal to do with the first and second waves. There are also a number of things that have been learned in the first and second waves and which have now gone better, as well as, of course, some of the mistakes that have now been made. As the Auditor General said, mistakes still occur during the crisis. But it's just to stress that EKRE was then in the government. That was the point the Prime Minister was trying to explain that it was still a mapping of lessons from before, and that's where we all have to learn.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U381	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu speech chair Tarmo... I'm sorry! I'm not asking you. No, I'm not asking, you see. I'm sorry, but what are you gonna do? Kalle Grünthal has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U382	Thank you! Yeah, right now, there's such a speech left by the Reform Party that it's not such a mess, it's still an EKRE delo. However, I would like to remind you that vaccinations and other things did not begin until January, so I believe that the Auditor General has also dealt with the third wave in part in a very thorough and very progressive way. So it's all the responsibility of the government of Kaja Kallas.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U383	Thank you. Well, that wasn't a procedural question, either, but let's move on. Now, really, Tarmo Kruusimäe, I ask you to come here to the Riigikogu Chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U384	Thank you, good chief! Good coworkers! The visit of the National Audit Office to the Riigikogu is all excited, just like Santa [should], but we cannot bring this comparison, because it is the policy of the rod that we cannot talk about. But yes, the opposition always rubs hands, and the coalition is the one who thinks, "Well, what do we get for now? " Today, in fact, because we have had the time to bring about a change in power, we can find a common ground. This is the common role of the people who have remained in these positions and who are also apparently or indirectly responsible for this. Communication has really been a bad thing, and it's a place that can't get any better. The fact that people have fears, the fact that people have ignorance, the fact that some people may be afraid of a needle, the fact that maybe some religious reasons do not allow blood exchange or something like that to be spoken to, talk to and talk to these people. Remember that on April 28, last year, the Health Board recruited four PR people, assuming communication would improve. No. This year, however, we noticed that in spring people who were afraid of tagging began to be called flatlanders. It actually gives people more defiance. It's a lot of ignorance. If I can say one good communication shot, it was last week in the "Actual Camera" that showed an old lady who said yes, I was sick with this disease, but no one in our village dared to vaccinate because we had been given this information. We need to get to these people and talk to them, as Aadu Black said here in the meantime, to a football player in footballers' language and to an IT man in IT men's language. State Audit Office. I think it's always good that he doesn't have to choose sides. I dare say at this point that one of the first brief, but never forgetting meetings was when I approached Janar Holm, that what hedge you and three tons of you are lifting these water cranes at the University of Tartu. And that answer that came, it was so wonderful. It was so golden. I'm not going to turn to it here, but you can all ask me. That is just how people's questions need to be answered. The Fatherland is the faith of the National Audit Office. Of course, we've always, when we've been in the government, pulled a tail between our legs for what we can get. But we have the courage to admit our own mistakes. Now, this backwards maybe you can see from these bottlenecks. It may also set the order of importance of the people in the party, say, the message, who was once sceptical about something and who was not sceptical about it. Collective responsibility or not taking responsibility is a problem. And it's not just in this crisis. The Auditor General drew attention to the year 2011. I draw attention to the year 2018 when the chemical pollution disaster of Lasnamäe was played in Tallinn. It was played over the phone. Sixty percent of the phone numbers that were given didn't answer, because every institution thought we were gonna put somebody in. Who are we gonna bang? Who do we have? Let's get the OTC. These numbers didn't even exist anymore. We were critical at the time, we should be critical at this point. If a person is responsible for this and has not placed his or her phone, a landline, on his or her phone, that person does not have to work there. As long as we're not changing staff, we're not gonna change a bit, and we're gonna keep telling people that we're making mistakes. The time has come for us to take extraordinarily courageous decisions in an emergency situation that we have not been declared. The right decisions in difficult times are the slogan of the Fatherland. Thank you very much, Janar, for the work done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U385	Thank you. This was then Tarmo Kruusimäe, representative of the party of the Isamaa Party. Let's move on. I would like to ask Lauri Läänemetsa, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U386	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Auditor General, First of all, thank you very much for this report. In fact, let's just say that what we have all felt here in one way or another for months or perhaps years has now been written down by the competent institution and before us. It must be said that the situation is really bad, extremely bad. One point from this report sums up this situation quite well, in my opinion. I quote: "In the opinion of the State Audit Office, prevention of communication cophony is a prerequisite for the decision-makers to understand equally what was decided first. In addition, it is necessary to know whether it was decided at all, and which is particularly important, why it was decided in favour of one solution or another. " In some ways, let us be honest, it is very embarrassing, very sad and, in fact, very scary about the governance of the state, that we have to admit that this is the situation with regard to government administration and crisis management. Of course, I think there are very many among us who would like to say today that the Prime Minister has not done his job. Personally, I think he has failed on this issue. I'm sure the Minister of Health is believed to be the same and for a lot of other people, but maybe at this point it's not the right place to be dealing with pointing fingers at each other, which we've heard a lot in this Chamber. Hopefully, we'll have a little more time for that later. Right now, there are some important things that need to be done. One important thing is getting the vaccination up. Now, by increasing this vaccination in the situation described by this report, we need to understand that it is difficult to do so in a way that we continue to do what we have done so far. Clearly, this kind of work, this activity, has not produced any results. We have to do something different to achieve the result. One important thing, I think what should be done about doing this differently is that today the different political forces should work together and together try to find solutions to normalise the situation. There is much distrust of the state, distrust of politicians and, no matter how much work in the government today, someone is trying to regain that trust, it is quite difficult, perhaps even in this period impossible. If you do not have confidence, then it means that your message will not be heard or heard, which means that people will not be vaccinated just as easily. This requires cooperation. In short, this should mean that we hold a debate here in the Riigikogu Chamber and try together to decide and search for these solutions. We need every party to be able to say a specific thing to its supporters and to those who rely on them. I think that these messages would sound a lot more credible from their mouths, and that would be more reliable information for people. I looked, 1637 people have died in Estonia because of the corona virus. Can I have three more minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U387	Yes, you can, but you have to make a wish for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U388	Well, I'm asking you. 1637 people have died in Estonia during this period. In fact, it does not matter whether they have died in the early days of this crisis or in the times of the end, people will die. I think it's one of the worst things that can happen in a family's life, because all these people are somebody's grandmothers, somebody's grandfathers, somebody's dads, somebody's moms, somebody's friends or somebody's co-workers. In my opinion, there is nothing more important in the governance of the country than to preserve, preserve and prevent human lives, so that the virus cannot do any harm. The important thing that I have looked at is that there is a great deal of description in this report of the support measures that concern entrepreneurship. This is undoubtedly very important because there are jobs in business. But as far as people are concerned, people are able to cope, people are coping, I think it needs to be given more attention. Because we have people who are directly hit, and we have noticed some of them, supported and helped in this crisis. But some we haven't noticed and supported and helped. And then we have those people whose jobs and jobs aren't directly lost, but they've lost a lot of income there. Coping with these people has been compromised. This message has been conveyed by social scientists that those people who get into difficulties, those who hear from day to day that they have to exert, vaccinate, subject themselves to these restrictions, all to do so in order to overcome the crisis, that is the very right message, but when they do, they lose their income, their livelihoods get hit. Then at one point, these people will be disappointed, defied, and more likely to work against it. Because you're making an effort, but the rest of the community isn't making an effort for you. I think that when we talk about this crisis and these solutions, it is a very important side. We need to know how to spot these people. It's very hard to talk to someone who doesn't listen to you. He doesn't listen to this country, he doesn't listen to the government. He just doesn't listen because the country doesn't exist for him. In fact, the state must be there for man if we want to achieve these common goals. My appeal and that of the other Social Democrats is that we have proposed that political parties together try to find a solution and, in fact, that society together try to find solutions. If we leave someone alone, or if we try, the government and the opposition all stand apart, you know, this isn't gonna work. So, good cooperation!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U389	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. I thank Auditor General Janar Holm. I would like to thank the National Audit Office for this very important document, which is 'The Five Lessons in the Coronary Crisis'. Thanks for that. I thank all the members of the Riigikogu for their questions and their comments. That concludes the 11th item.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U390	We will move on to the 12th item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the National Security of Exports Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm asking for a presentation, I understand that on the screen, yes, Andres Suti, Minister of Entrepreneurship and Information Technology. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U391	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has submitted a draft law amending the National Export Guarantee Act to the Riigikogu for discussion. The purpose of the draft is to create opportunities for better taking into account the needs of Estonian exporters in providing credit insurance services guaranteed by the national export guarantee and thereby encouraging exports. The amendments to the National Export Guarantee Act are divided into two parts. Firstly, most of the changes are necessary in order to create the possibility of granting a national export guarantee also under credit insurance agreements for short-term transactions which identify an insured person other than the guarantor, i.e. an intermediary. Under the current law, a national export guarantee is not issued to cover insurance risks for which the claim against the buyer does not belong to the policyholder himself, but to a third party having an economic link with him. This means that there is no reasonable insurance solution for exporting companies wishing to secure the export sales of all companies in the group under a single insurance contract or who have built up their sales activities, for example through sales-oriented subsidiaries. The amendment concerns credit insurance for short-term transactions, where payment periods are less than two years, normally these payment periods are up to 90 days. The second amendment amends the restriction on the volume of national export guarantees in force at the same time. This volume will be increased from EUR 191.7 million to EUR 400 million. Following the outbreak of COVID-19, the European Commission found in March 2020 that short-term export credits generally lack sufficient private insurance capacity, and countries can also temporarily treat EU and OECD countries as non-marketable risk countries. As a result, the need for a national export guarantee for operators increased sharply. The changes proposed by the draft act will have a positive impact on Estonian exporting companies. The impact is export-friendly, as there is an opportunity to offer insurance solutions guaranteed by a national export guarantee to a greater extent and to design and design these solutions in such a way as to better match the practices actually used by operators when exporting. The proposed changes to the draft also bring the provision of national guarantees more closely into line with the needs of Estonian exporters and the practice of export practices. The result is more secure access to the additional means of export and the use of modern sales structures with the support of the national export guarantee. All this improves the competitiveness of local exporters compared to foreign companies. The law is designed to enter into force in general. Thank you. I would ask for this bill to be supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U392	Thank you very much, good waitress. There are no questions. Thank you. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Sven Sester, Vice-Chairman of the Economic Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U393	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! Yes, true story, the Minister has already given an overview of the'main focus' of this draft. Indeed, feedback from Estonian exporting companies is one of the most important motivations for drafting this draft, mainly for KredEx credit insurance. This feedback clearly provided information on the need to increase credit insurance services with a national export guarantee. This is also one of the main objectives of this bill. The Commission discussed this issue at its meeting on 11 October. The Minister gave an overview of this in the Commission, as he did today in this large Chamber. In the Commission, things seemed relatively clear, so the members of the Commission had only one question. It was requested to know how much insurance premiums have been paid per year in relation to the damage. Andres Sutt provided information on this, responding to the fact that volumes have been relatively small, currently have a credit limit of 258 million, exports account for 72% of these limits and 139 million national export guarantee limits and most of them are short-term. There were no more separate questions for the members of the Commission, and we went straight to the Commission's decisions. The decisions were as follows: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 10 November, including by consensus, and to propose that the first reading be closed (this decision was equally consensual). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U394	Good waitress, thank you very much for your thorough presentation! There are no questions. Thank you very much. Do the groups now want to open negotiations? No requests, no negotiations. The lead committee has proposed that the first reading of draft 423 be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including on 24 November at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 12th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U395	We will move on to agenda item 13 - the first reading of the draft law amending the Consumer Protection Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Once again, I ask the Minister of Entrepreneurship and Information Technology Andres Suti on the screen of the Riigikogu hall. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U396	Thank you, good manager. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I present the draft law presented by the Government of the Republic, which will make it clearer and more transparent for consumers to search for online offers and make transactions. This is essential to ensure a level playing field for businesses and to increase consumer confidence and confidence in online activities. We are also transposing a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council aimed at modernising consumer protection standards and better ensuring that they are complied with. There has been a significant increase in the number of transactions when shopping online, but there have also been some risks. In an online trading venue where, alongside different traders, private individuals are also providers, it is not always clear to the consumer who is the second party to the online contract and how the ranking of the bids submitted as a result of his search will be formed. In the event of a problem, it is therefore important for the consumer, for example, that the 14-day right of withdrawal can only be exercised if it has taken place with a professional trader. That is why the requirement to provide such information to the consumer on an online trading venue is introduced before the transaction takes place. This shall be done on the basis of the data provided by the provider of the goods and shall not require the trading venue to carry out a separate verification. In future, when searching online, the consumer must also receive clear information about the outcome of the search depending on the payments made by the operators, i.e. the trader has purchased or brokered the search to a higher position. The website shall have available general information on the criteria underlying the ranking of the offers to be submitted as a result of the consumer's search. Large platforms, such as Google or Yahoo, are already subject to this requirement. We will also clarify the regulation of misleading trading practices and complement the list of misleading trading practices whose use is prohibited at all times and under all conditions. In order to ensure that tickets for sports and cultural events are available to individuals, it is prohibited to resell tickets obtained using online robots, thereby violating the conditions imposed by the first seller of the tickets. It is also prohibited for a trader to describe opinions and reviews on goods or services that have actually purchased or used goods or services as consumer assessments without taking reasonable measures to verify them. The submission of false statements and the misuse of consumer reviews are also prohibited. We will also see new misdemeanours for breach of consumer protection requirements in the Law of Obligations Act, and we will increase the financial penalty for misdemeanours to EUR 400000. Non-compliance can affect the economic behaviour of many consumers, resulting in consumers making transaction decisions that they would not otherwise have taken and which cause economic damage to consumers. The economic damage suffered by each individual consumer may not be significant, but given the potential high number of consumers, the potential income from an offence may also be significant. To ensure better compliance with consumer protection requirements and to prevent infringements, penalties must therefore be effective and dissuasive. The law will enter into force by 28 May 2022, then the directive to be transposed will also apply. Dear Members of the Riigikogu, I ask you to support this bill!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U397	Minister, thank you for this report. There are no questions. I now request Raimond Kaljulaid, member of the Economic Commission, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U398	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. It is an exceptional honour for me to introduce you to this discussion, which was held in the Committee on Economic Affairs on 11 October 2021, where this bill was presented to us by Mr Andres Sutt, Minister for Enterprise and Information Technology, accompanied by Mr Merike Koppel, Director of the Business Environment at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The Commission's discussion began with the speech of Andres Sut, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology, where he presented the draft law amending the Consumer Protection Act, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic. This was followed by a discussion between the members of the Commission. Members of the Commission wanted to know and find out whether the entry into force of the law was realistic. They also wanted to know how compliance and monitoring would be ensured. The Minister explained that, according to the Ministry's opinion, the entry into force triggers have been sufficient and that supervision is carried out by the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority, which is quite right, as the name of this office says. With regard to supervision, it was also clarified that this is both the case for consumers when consumers feel that there have been significant non-compliances, but that spot checks on businesses are also being carried out. They wanted to know how much this amendment would lead to administrative costs for the State. The Minister explained that no additional administrative costs are foreseen at ministerial level and that the corresponding posts for this work already exist in the Ministry. There was also a question of whether this would lead to additional bureaucracy. The Minister explained that this would not lead to additional bureaucracy, but, of course, companies must, according to clear rules, offer discounts, for example. To conclude this very nuclear, very substantive debate, it was decided to propose that this draft be put on the plenary agenda by 10 November 2021. This decision was consensual, and all the members of the committee present supported it. Secondly, it was decided to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading and I am pleased to announce that this decision was also consensual. I thank you, fellow Members, and I am ready to answer all your questions about this committee's debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U399	Thank you. The presentation was very thorough, but there seems to be one question. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U400	Thank you very much, Chairman. Good colleague! Did the Commission also have this question in the debate that we know that this focus in e-commerce is primarily on global companies, and also on reading from the explanatory memorandum, when it came to the question of why, for example, a fine of EUR 400000 needed to be imposed in order to call such large companies into order, was it also said how these global companies would be able to obtain this money or how they could be called into order?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U401	Thank you, good questioner, for this question. Well, I could, of course, easily answer you that there were no questions in the Commission specifically on this issue, but certainly this is an important matter to which you are pointing out. We have an e-commerce support group operating here in the Riigikogu, which, I think, could also discuss this issue. As far as these fines are concerned, of course, it is important to stress that there is a certain margin of discretion here, it is not necessary to charge a small company a fine of EUR 400000 for every minor mistake, which would be a burden on it. However, specifically how multinationals, such as Amazon, will be charged with the huge fine that can be imposed on them, this issue was not addressed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U402	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Thank you very much. There is now an opportunity for the political groups to open negotiations. Is that a wish? No, it's not. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 424 be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 24 November. The first reading is closed and the 13th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U403	We will proceed to the 14th item, which is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the United Kingdom Expedition Forces" delivered by the Government of the Republic. I ask the Minister of Defence Kalle Laaneti to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U404	Good evening, President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Since we have 11 draft missions today, if I may, I would like to start by giving a general overview of them all. Participation in international military operations confirms Estonia's commitment to contributing to the burden-sharing for peace and stability in the world. Participation in international military operations is one of the priorities of the security and defence policy for Estonia, which shows Estonia not only as a consumer of security but also as a manufacturer, and ultimately supports the achievement of Estonia's security policy objectives. In addition, participation in operations increases the professionalism of Estonian Defence Forces and the ability of units to cooperate with allies and partners. It improves the comprehensive development of the Defence Forces, enhances Estonia's defence capabilities and enhances deterrence. On this basis, the Government of the Republic will present to the Riigikogu today 11 draft decisions to participate in international military operations next year. Certainly, Mali will be one of Estonia's main operational areas next year, and the biggest contribution will be made to the task force Takuba, led by France, which we will discuss further on this specific draft. Cooperation with the French is very good and as a result we see French soldiers and tanks in Tapa NATO battle group today contributing to Estonia's security. The new proposal for an operation is to participate in the European Union Training Mission EUTM, the European Training Mission in Mozambique, for which we will continue to contribute this year on the basis of the Government of the Republic and request the Riigikogu to continue its contribution from 1 January 2022. In total, there are up to 125 members of the Defence Forces in their mandates for participating in operations, which is 79 fewer than this year. We are really planning, of course, if we can get mandates from the Riigikogu, to send 91 members of the Defence Forces. What is the reason for this decrease? Above all, from the end of the Afghanistan mission and, on the other hand, our contribution to the NATO mission in Iraq will be reduced. If we contribute once this year to the militia, next year we will continue with a staff officer. I would specifically go to the 444 bill. It is a United Kingdom-led combined expeditionary force, bringing together ten countries in the region, similarly thinking and with a common sense of danger, which are generally ready to contribute quickly and flexibly to operations across the whole spectrum of warfare and crisis management, from humanitarian crises to conventional warfare. JEF, in short, is able to operate independently or in the presence of a larger military unit. The use of JEF is flexible, and possible operations can be initiated and attended by all or interested Member States. On the basis of a joint decision by the Member States, the JEF focuses on ensuring security in the Baltic Sea region and the North Atlantic, thereby strengthening the protection and deterrence of the Baltic States. The most important task of JEF is to be the first to react in the event of a conflict, including in the Baltic Sea region. The JEF countries meet regularly in the format of political and military consultations. Table exercises have been organised at different levels of decision-making. The last table exercise of defence ministers took place in July 2021, which I personally had the honour to attend. It is also planned to carry out a table exercise by defence ministers next year. What is Estonia's contribution? Estonia will contribute in 2022, if we receive a mandate from the Riigikogu, a team of four JEFs against improvised explosive devices, a three-member strategic communication team, a team of five medics, an air-fire leader, a four-member mine-touch team and a seven-member support element, together with up to 24 members of the Defence Forces. I will also bring out the participating states of this operation. The leading countries of the JEF are the United Kingdom, Estonia, the Netherlands, Latvia, Lithuania, Norway, Denmark, Finland, Sweden and Iceland. I would also like to add that, at their last meeting in June 2021, the defence ministers of the JEF countries signed a political guide in which the focus of the JEF over the Baltic Sea and the North Atlantic was confirmed and stressed the importance of cooperation between JEF and NATO. The legal basis for participation is § 34 (6) of the National Defence Act. Expenditure is included in the budget of the Ministry of Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U405	Minister, thank you very much. There are no questions. Thank you. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu to Madis Milling, Member of the National Defence Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U406	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, on this side of the screen! The National Defence Committee discussed draft 444 before submitting it to first reading, including at its meeting on 11 October, where defence minister Kalle Laanet and Head of the Political Planning Department of the Ministry of Defence, Tuuli Duneton, participated as representatives of the draft. On 12 October of this year, a joint meeting of the Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs took place at the Defence Forces' headquarters, where Colonel Märt Plakk, Head of the Operational Department of the General Staff of the Defence Forces, and Tuuli Duneton, Head of the Political Planning Department of the Ministry of Defence, also addressed the Estonian Defence Forces' plans for contributing to the UK-led expedition forces in 2022. At the meeting of the National Defence Commission, including 26 October, members of the Commission received an even more detailed overview of the security situation in the mission areas of the Estonian Defence Forces. The draft confirms Estonia's readiness to contribute to the United Kingdom Joint Expedition Force in 2022, as this year may be the case with up to 24 Defence Forces. Cooperation within JEF is important for Estonia, as JEF's strategic focus is on ensuring security and strengthening protection and deterrence in the Baltic Sea region, Northern Europe and the High North. Participation in JEF is also a natural continuation for Estonia of very good, close and long-term bilateral political and military cooperation with the United Kingdom. In addition, it also means an important output for the Estonian Defence Forces in the field of operation and training. Procedural decisions. The National Defence Committee appointed the speaker here, including at the meeting of 11 October, as the representative of the leading committee and invited the Riigikogu to conclude the first reading. The committee proposes that the President of the Riigikogu set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 22 November at 10.30 a.m. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U407	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Thank you. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading of draft 444. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 10.30 a.m. on 22 November. That concludes the first reading and brings the 14th item to an end.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U408	We will proceed to the 15th item, which is the first reading of the Riigikogu decision "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the European Union Training Mission in Mozambique" by the Government of the Republic. I ask the Minister of Defence Kalle Laaneti to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U409	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. The draft decision is based on the decision of the Council of the European Union of 12 July 2022 to establish a training mission, the European Union Training Mission in Mozambique. The decision was based on a request for assistance made by the President of the Republic of Mozambique on 3 June 2021. The objective is to support the development of the military capabilities of the Mozambique Armed Forces and to achieve this will focus on the following areas: training, advising and contributing to the development of structures and mechanisms for the military management of the Rapid Response Forces. Estonia's contribution would be one of the legal advisors to start the service in December of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U410	Minister, there is one question for you. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U411	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, It is known that there is an agreement on military cooperation between the Government of Mozambique and the Russian Government in January 2017. My question is, what awareness of the circumstances of this agreement does the Estonian Ministry of Defence or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have? How have you taken into account the existence of this agreement in relation to the mission of the Estonian Defence Forces in Mozambique? What is the broader context of cooperation between Russia and Mozambique in view of the security situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U412	Thank you for your question and your attention. I don't know if the State Department has that kind of information. I don't have that kind of information. But I'll be more specific and I'll be sure to give you feedback.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U413	Minister, there are no further questions. Thank you! I now ask the chairman of the National Defence Commission, Enn Frontland, on the screen.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U414	[[Remote connection]] Good evening. I hope you can hear me.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U415	I can hear you, but it's pretty bad. We're trying to fix the sound.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U416	There. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft with the Minister of Defence and the officials of the Ministry of Defence at its meeting on 11 October this year. The National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft be included on the agenda of today's sitting of the Riigikogu for the first reading. The draft was appointed as representative of the National Defence Committee and the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu that the first reading of the draft be stopped. The deadline for tabling amendments would be 22 November at 10.30 a.m. this year with the agreement of the President. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U417	Good waitress, thank you very much for your very thorough presentation. No questions at the moment. Do you want to open negotiations? No, I don't. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 445. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 22 November at 10.30 a.m. The first reading is closed and the 15th item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U418	We will move on to item 16, which is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the international military operation Inherent Resolve" submitted by the Government of the Republic. I ask the Minister of Defence Kalle Laaneti to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U419	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The content of this draft decision is the military operation of the International Coalition against ISIL, led by the United States of America, Inhenent Resolve, aimed primarily at combating ISIL in Iraq and Syria. Another important task of the operation is the training of Iraqi security forces. Estonia's contribution would be, of course, if the Riigikogu gave us this mandate, one of the staff officers during the operation in 2022. Due to the training needs of Iraq and due to the possible need to adjust the focus of the operation, the maximum number of members of the Defence Forces set out in the draft (10) allows Estonia to contribute further and flexibly to the operation when the need arises. Estonian Defence Forces do not participate in military operations on the territory of Syria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U420	Dear Minister... Does anyone have any questions? It is. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U421	Thank you, Mr President. You have just said that the Estonian Defence Forces are not participating in military operations. Let's say, in a situation where this country is, it is very questionable to use such an expression, because there may be a military situation there by the minute. I don't mean to say it does, but it might. So the expression not participating in the military operation is probably not quite correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U422	Thank you for your observation. You can add it to the protocol.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U423	Any more questions? There are no questions. I thank the Minister, thank you. I now ask Ants Laaneots, Member of the National Defence Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U424	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu, Minister for Defence, ladies and gentlemen. The National Defence Committee discussed draft 446 before submitting it to first reading, including at its meeting on 11 October, where defence minister Kalle Laanet and Head of the Political Planning Department of the Ministry of Defence, Tuuli Duneton, participated as representatives of the draft. The draft was also discussed at the joint exposition session of the National Defence and Foreign Affairs Committee held on 12 October, where Colonel Märt Plakk, Head of the Operational Department of the General Staff of the Defence Forces, and Tuuli Duneton, Head of the Political Planning Department of the Ministry of Defence, gave an overview of the ongoing mission of the Estonian Defence Forces and discussed, among other things, preparations for the participation of Inherent Resolve in the international military operation set out in the draft decision. In addition to the above-mentioned meeting, the members of the committee received an overview of the security situation in the mission areas with the participation of the Estonian Defence Forces from the representatives of the authorities of the Ministry of Defence. In conclusion, the National Defence Committee has received a comprehensive overview of Operation Inherent Resolve and the planned contribution of Estonia. Operation Inherent Resolve will focus on supporting stabilisation in Iraq and Syria and will support the Iraqi Government in its security field. In supporting the training of Iraqi security forces, close work is being done with the Iraqi Government and NATO. Participation in the operation of the US-led coalition of will also supports the close alliance between Estonia and the US, as well as cooperation in defence and security matters. At the same time, participation in the operation will give the Estonian Defence Forces an important operational output that will contribute, let us say, to the overall development of the Defence Forces. It is important to note that, due to the training needs of Iraq, the possible adjustment of the focus of the operation and Estonia's desire to contribute together with key allies to supporting international stability, the maximum number of members of the Defence Forces set out in the draft allows 10 Defence Forces, Estonia to contribute further and flexibly to the need for Operation Inherent Resolve. It continues to apply that Estonian Defence Forces do not participate in military operations in Syria's territory (intendedly). If there are such cases of attack and everything else [such], then this is the second situation. The draft is now subject to consensual procedural decisions of the National Defence Committee. The National Defence Committee appointed me a representative of the leading committee at the meeting of 11 October, and proposes that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading. The committee proposes that the President of the Riigikogu set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 22 November at 10.30 a.m. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U425	Thank you. There's a question for you. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U426	Thank you. This explanatory memorandum specifically states that through its participation in the mission in Iraq, Estonia is actively contributing to the mitigation of threats from the southern wing of the alliance...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U427	South China?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U428	I'm sorry! Please, Mr Grünthal, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U429	... through its participation in the mission in Iraq, Estonia actively contributes to mitigating threats from the southern wing of the alliance and strengthening NATO's collective security, and thus Estonia supports Estonia's allies, partner countries in the fight against terrorism. This objective will be achieved with ten members of the Defence Forces. I'm asking you how many militias do you need to put an end to terrorism in the first place.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U430	My dear colleague, there are 11 drafts dealing with the missions of the Defence Forces. This means that if we put 200 men in each, imagine how many [men] should be sent out. That is the idea that our involvement, especially in NATO Member States, will also support our ally[relations]. This means that if someone wants to help us, and they have already come to help us, then they will also come to help us. The United States is particularly important, important and precious for us, of course, there is no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U431	Yeah, a procedural question. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U432	I, yeah, I'd like to say a procedural thing. Mr Laaneots, I was a little wrong in asking this question: it was about the next mission, where there really are ten members of the Defence Forces. My question, what I wanted to ask you, [touched] five armed forces. But, of course, I thank you very much for that answer, you were able to give the right answer to my false question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U433	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions for you. Thank you very much. A good procedural question, I also thank you for admitting a mistake. And we can really move on from here. Really, thank you very much. And now the negotiating round. Who wants to open it? Please! No, I don't. Then don't open them. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 22 November at 10.30 a.m. This concludes the first reading of draft 446 and concludes the 16th agenda item.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U434	We will proceed to the 17th item, which is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian State on the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation mission in Iraq" submitted by the Government of the Republic. It is a pleasure to ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by the Minister of Defence Kalle Laaneti. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U435	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The NATO mission in Iraq was established in Baghdad in October 2018. Kalle Grünthal, a member of the Riigikogu, referred here in the past to what this purpose was. The contribution of Estonia next year, when the Riigikogu naturally confirms this mandate, would be one of the staff officers, as we contributed in the first half of this year. But I want to mark one thing. This year Estonia will contribute a one-time task force to Denmark as a NATO mission in Iraq as a leading state company between June 2021 and December 2021, with a total of 37 Defence Forces members formed on the basis of the Defence League. A group formed on the basis of the Defence League then, isn't it, the task of which is close defence in Baghdad? When I visited this company in Iraq, they really made a real impression. There was no difference as to whether they were allies of defence or professional soldiers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U436	Minister, there is one question for you on this comprehensive report. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U437	Thank you, Mr President. Estonia's contribution then is that we support Estonia's allies and partner countries in the fight against terrorism, perhaps even after 1 December. I remember very clearly that with the same mission and with the same objective we went to Afghanistan. We messed there for ten years, lost the lives of the soldiers, and the result is that we basically came back from there as beating dogs. The anti-terrorism contribution turned out to be zero. How positive are you to assess this mission based on this recent example of history?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U438	Personally, after visiting Iraq, I'm positive. If we assessed the Afghanistan mission, the counter-terrorism mission, if the allies and Estonia had not gone there, we do not know what would actually have happened today. So I don't count Afghanistan's mission as a failure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U439	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U440	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. My question, too, is somewhat similar to the question put by my previous colleague. Do you have any information on how long this Iraqi mission is planned to last, perhaps because our good allies, such as the United States, may decide to help with this war?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U441	Thank you, good questioner! We are here asking for a mandate for one year. I cannot appreciate how long this NATO mission is planned in Iraq.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U442	Reuben Kaalep.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U443	Thank you. Good Minister, you said that if we had not gone to Afghanistan, we would not know what would be there now. But isn't it a bit of a dangerous door opening, because in fact, for every country in the world, it can be said that if we don't invade it militaryly, then we don't know what the future will bring, because the future will inevitably be unpredictable. Don't you think it's a bit of a bad precedent if we start to justify our external missions with this argument?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U444	My answer was to the question of whether we and our allies have failed in this mission. I said that I did not think we failed because we do not know what would have happened if this mission had not taken place.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U445	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U446	Good manager! Mr. Secretary of Defense! I remember we've extended the Afghanistan mission here several times with such hollow talk. But now, as a result of the total failure in Afghanistan, the analysts have read, I have read, said that a large piece was still going to Iraq, that it struck it from the bottom, as the country says, originally. I'm asking you if at this point it's wise to extend again and go there. What, for example, will happen next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U447	Thank you for your question. We're applying for a mandate to a staff officer. The question is the sign that we are united with our allies.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U448	Minister, thank you, there are no further questions. I ask Heiki Hepner, member of the National Defence Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U449	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed this draft at the meeting of 11 October, where the Minister of Defence Kalle Laanet and the Head of the Political Planning Department of the Ministry of Defence Tuuli Duneton spoke. It was also discussed on 26 October. The National Defence Committee held a meeting where representatives of the authorities of the Ministry of Defence's administration gave a comprehensive overview of the security situation in the missions and the areas of the Estonian Defence Forces, including Iraq. If we go to procedural decisions, let it be added that all decisions were taken by consensus within the Commission. I, too, was appointed by the Commission to report here in a consensual manner. The Commission proposes that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments to the draft be set at 10.30 a.m. on 22 November. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U450	Good waitress, thank you very much for your good presentation. There are no questions for you. Thank you. Do you want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The commission has proposed that the first reading be closed. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 22 November at 10.30 a.m. That concludes the first reading and brings the 17th item to an end.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U451	We will move on to the 18th item, which is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on extending the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the European Union military mission EUNAVFOR MED/Irin, submitted by the Government of the Republic. I ask the Minister of Defence Kalle Laaneti to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U452	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The primary objective of the mission is to support the implementation of the UN arms embargo on Libya using air, satellite and marine capabilities. This includes inspections of vessels in international waters off the Libyan coast suspected of transporting arms or related materiel to or from Libya. In addition, the mission supports the implementation of UN measures to combat illegal oil exports from Libya, training and reconstruction of the Libyan navy and border guards, and the dismantling of smuggling and smuggling networks, gathering information and conducting air patrols. Estonia's contribution would be that Estonia would continue to contribute to the operation with a staff officer at the operation headquarters in Rome. The maximum number of members of the Defence Forces set out in the Bill shall be six, allowing additional contributions to be made to the operation if necessary. That's what I'd end up with right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U453	Thank you, Minister. There are some questions for you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U454	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. Yeah, I've been asking about that before, with a minimum representation [of] there. There aren't too many of these African sons coming across the sea right now. But what's that one officer of staff really doing in Rome? Why don't you give us a little light on what this is like at sea right now? The chief officer is sitting in Rome, but what does he see there, and what is he doing usefully?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U455	Thank you, good member of the Riigikogu, for the question. Ensuring continuity in the European Union's activities to ensure the security of the Mediterranean region is extremely important for Estonia. Participation in the European Union military mission Irini is important to Estonia both in foreign and defence policy. By participating in the mission, Estonia is jointly and severally contributing to the European Union military mission with other Member States, which, through the implementation of the UN arms embargo in Libya, will increase security at the southern border of the European Union. Participation in the European Union's missions will also increase the external visibility of Estonia and give the Estonian Defence Forces the opportunity to gain a wide range of operational experiences. And when we talk about a staff officer, the work of the staff is extremely important at international level.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U456	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U457	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister of Defence! I believe that we can read the explanatory statement that you have just quoted from this remote to answer Peter Ernits' question, there is no point in trying to do that. But I'm asking you about a [thing] that isn't in this explanatory note. As we are talking here about the implementation of the arms embargo and other defence policy activities, please describe in detail the results of this action there. List some of the actions that have been successful in this mission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U458	Honourable member of the Riigikogu! I imagine that the executive must always do everything to make it as simple as possible for a member of the Riigikogu to read the explanatory statement. As I have explained, the work of the staff is specifically the task of our staff officer and all activities that are internationally targeted to mitigate risks will produce less or more results so that we are safer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U459	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U460	Thank you. I mean, I would remind you once again that you must now try to understand my question as well. I asked which activities have served this purpose. Tell me the results. How many gunships have been captured and so on? You understand my question? I want to know the result that's been obtained in advance.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U461	You will receive this answer in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U462	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U463	Good manager! Good minister! I'm sorry you didn't answer my question. Officer as officer and badge, but what's really going on at sea right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U464	Good questioner, I really don't know what's going on at sea right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U465	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I now request Alar Laneman, member of the National Defence Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U466	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Mr. Secretary of Defense! Ladies and gentlemen, Like this year, we wish to continue to contribute to the EUNAVFOR Med/Irin mission in the Mediterranean in 2022 with up to six Estonian Defence Forces. The main objective of the European Union mission is the implementation of the UN arms embargo on Libya and the prevention of illegal oil exports from Libya, as well as the training and reconstruction of Libyan border guards and naval forces. In addition, the mission also deals with the prevention of trafficking in human beings. By participating in the mission, Estonia continues to fulfil its allied responsibilities arising from its membership of the European Union, which, among other things, enhances Estonia's external political visibility. Together with Estonia, 24 European Union countries contribute to this mission. On 12 October this year, a joint meeting of the National Defence and Foreign Affairs Committee took place at the Defence Forces General Staff, where representatives of the Defence Forces and the Ministry of Defence gave us an overview of the international missions taking place with the participation of the Estonian Defence Forces. On 26 October this year, members of the National Defence Commission received an overview of the security situation in the mission areas where the personnel and units of the Estonian Defence Forces participate from representatives of the authorities of the Ministry of Defence. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft with the Defence Minister Kalle Laanet and the Ministry of Defence officials at its meeting on 11 October this year. The National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft be included on the agenda of today's sitting of the Riigikogu for the first reading. Alar Laneman was also appointed to represent the draft National Defence Commission. At the same time, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading of the draft. The deadline for tabling amendments would be 22 November at 10.30 a.m. this year with the agreement of the President. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U467	Good waitress, thank you very much for your good presentation. There are no questions. Thank you. Do you want to open negotiations? No, I don't. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 22 November at 10.30 a.m. First reading of Bill 448 is closed and item 18 is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U468	We will move on to item 19, which is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the readiness units of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation" submitted by the Government of the Republic. I ask the Minister of Defence Kalle Laaneti to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U469	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The establishment of NATO response forces was decided at the summit in 2002. NRF (NATO Response Force) is a high-ready unit capable of performing military operations at any point in the world. What is its key role? [This is] precisely the launch of NATO's short-term collective defence operations. Staff are 40000 military personnel under direct command of SACEUR (Supreme Allied Commander Europe), the European Chief of Staff in the NATO structure. It consists of a rapid reaction force ready for 2 to 7 days. In addition, by contributing to Estonia's allied responsibilities, Estonia has also been contributing to NATO's readiness initiative (NRI) since the beginning of 2021. This was agreed at the NATO Summit in Brussels in 2018 and its execution was officially announced at the NATO Heads of State and Government meeting in London in December 2019. The aim of the initiative is to increase the readiness of the allies' forces: 30 mechanised battalions, 30 air squadrons and 30 battleships are ready, if necessary, to respond quickly, including in collective defence situations, if necessary, for up to 30 days. These units are in addition to the troops already in the NRF. Estonia has a plan to contribute, of course, if the Riigikogu grants this mandate during the first half of 2022 with a mine-hunter and throughout the year to the same mine-fighting group as the chief and staff on the management board of the Air Force of Staff Officers and in the special operations task force and staff officers of the special operations unit, with a total of up to 80 members of the Defence Forces. The aim of Estonia is to contribute to the NRI with a mechanised infantry company and support element together with up to 200 members of the Defence Forces. NATO decides to use NATO's response forces unanimously, which means that these forces can only be used with the consent of Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U470	Minister, there are also questions for you. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U471	Thank you. § 128 (1) of the Constitution specifically states that the Riigikogu decides the use of the Defence Forces on foreign missions. Right now, you're asking us for permission to use up to 80 militias, which means our mandate is 80 people. However, your explanatory statement shows that if there is a need to participate in a collective defence operation, the entity will be ordered by the Government of the Republic on a proposal from you, the Minister of Defence, and in that case the Government of the Republic will not be bound by the restrictions on the number of members of the Defence Forces in the draft. In essence, this means that if we now give a mandate to just one, you can send 1000 or 2 000 men there at a time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U472	Thank you, good questioner! May I start with the last question you asked about the previous draft? As of 30 September, 4002 vessels have been detained for inspection. That is the answer to the previous question that I promised to give in writing. With regard to the current issue, the National Defence Act provides the legal basis for participation in the collective defence operation, as well as, in other cases, § 34 (6). The draft does not regulate the use of the Defence Forces in a collective defence operation for the defence of a NATO Member State, because according to § 33 (1) (1) of the National Defence Act, the Riigikogu decides on the use of the Defence Forces in collective self-defence operations by ratifying an external agreement containing the principle of collective self-defence. The North Atlantic Treaty is currently the only foreign agreement concluded by the Republic of Estonia where this principle has been mentioned. If there is a need to participate in a collective self-defence operation, the entity is ordered to commence the operation by the Government of the Republic on the basis of § 33 (2) of the National Defence Act on a proposal from the Minister of Defence. In this case, the Government of the Republic is also not bound by the restriction on the number of members of the Defence Forces in the draft. In implementing the NRF and/or NRI in cases other than the collective defence operation, the Minister of Defence, on the basis of a decision of the Riigikogu and in accordance with § 34 (6) of the National Defence Act, instructs the Defence Forces unit, in coordination with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, to commence or terminate participation in an international military operation. The order will be immediately notified to the President of the Republic, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu and the Chairman of the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U473	Kalle Grünthal, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U474	Thank you, Mr President. I read the exact same story that Kalle Laane just read to me here the second time. I asked if that means that if, for example, we assign a military officer to this mission, the Government of the Republic will put 2,000 in it as it pleases. It's a question of association with it. You forgot my question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U475	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U476	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. I'm reading here and there are different numbers: there's 80 and then there's up to 200 and then there's going to be costs, which is a little less than a million. And now, if this million is divided by 200, there will be 5,000 euros a year for one member of the Defence Forces. Tell me how much these boys are actually gonna get paid there. Is that 5,000 a little funny for one person, or is there some other trick in it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U477	The first answer to the question is that hypothetically we are asking for a mandate of up to 200, but that doesn't mean we're sending 200. The second is that all the daily salaries and expenses of all the members of the Defence Forces who are in the service today are included in the budget and, above all, relate specifically to mission expenses. So, according to the laws of the Republic of Estonia, no one loses their income, their mission fees and their belongings.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U478	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U479	Yeah, I'm glad to hear that. But explain to me this million: how does it divide? And then there's another EUR 4900 plus some amount: what's in it? If they've already got their pay, no matter what, that million will come again, I don't know how many men to share? And what about the EUR 4900?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U480	So that I am not wrong to answer the question of a honourable member of the Riigikogu, I will give you a written answer, if that is all right.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U481	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu Tiiu Aro, member of the National Defence Committee!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U482	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of Defense! The National Defence Committee discussed draft 449 before submitting it to first reading, including at its meeting on 19 October, in which Minister Kalle Laanet, Head of the Ministry's Political Planning Department, Tuuli Duneton, and a ministry official took part as representatives. The draft includes a joint meeting of the National Defence and Foreign Affairs Committee, held on 12 October, to the Defence Forces General Staff, where Colonel Märt Plakk, Head of the Operational Division of the General Staff of the Defence Forces, and Ms Duneton, Head of the Political Planning Department of the Ministry of Defence gave an overview of the ongoing missions of the Estonian Defence Forces and preparations for the participation in the NATO response forces NRF (NATO Response Force) and NATO preparedness initiative NRI (NATO Reediness Iniative). I will also bring out the meeting of the National Defence Commission, including on 26 October, where the members of the committee received an overview from the representatives of the authorities of the Ministry of Defence's administration of the security situation in the mission areas of the Estonian Defence Forces. Of course, the specific mission area for this draft is not known in advance. The NRF's response forces are also an important tool for the rapid launch of NATO's collective self-defence operations, should this be necessary. Thus, participation in the NRF is also directly related to Estonia's security. NATO response teams may be used for a collective defence operation under the NATO Treaty as set out in Chapters 6 and 7 of the UN Charter. NRF personnel are 40,000 militia. The NRI, however, includes 30 mechanized battalions, 30 aerial squadrons and 30 battleships, in addition to the capabilities of the NRF. The use of this response power and readiness initiative will be decided unanimously by the NATO Council, which means that the use of the NRF can only take place with the consent of Estonia. According to the draft, we are ready to contribute to the NRF in 2022 with up to 80 members of the Defence Forces, which means special operations unit, staff officers and mine hunters. Up to 200 members of the Defence Forces are available in the NRI. It means mechanized infantry companies and their support element. The draft is subject to consensual procedural decisions of the National Defence Committee. At the meeting of the National Defence Committee, Tiiu Arot, including on 1 October of the year, appointed me as the representative of the leading committee and invited the Riigikogu to conclude the first reading. The committee proposes that the President of the Riigikogu set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 22 November at 10.30 a.m. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U483	Good waitress, thank you very much. There are no questions. Thank you. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 22 November at 10.30 a.m. Thus, the first reading of draft 449 has been completed and the 19th item has been closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U484	Let's move on. The 20th item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the European Union Training Mission and the United Nations Peace Mission in Mali." I ask the Minister of Defence Kalle Laaneti to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U485	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! We are asking for a mandate to send two staff officers and four training instructors to Mali for a European Union Training Mission to provide tactical military training to the Malian units. That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U486	Thank you very much, Minister. There are a few questions for you, though. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U487	Thank you. Minister, you have made a promise that, if the Malian Government makes a formal agreement with Russia or otherwise, the Russian mercenary unit Wagner will enter Mali's territory, then from this point on Estonia will no longer participate in a military operation led by France, previously known as Barkhane, now as Takuba. My question is simple: does this promise to bring out troops also concern this European Union training mission and the United Nations peace-building mission?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U488	My public message at the time that Estonia would not be able to participate in the joint operating room with the Russian wage army Wagner concerned Takuba in particular. However, I also believe that regardless of the name of the mission, it is, in my opinion, a big red line for Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U489	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U490	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Secretary of Defense, I must bow deeply to you for your operational action when you answered questions in writing in my previous section of questions, as you promised. Thank you. Impressive! But my current question concerns Mali. As far as we know, there's Wagner, basically the Russian wage army, the base. And this base is relatively close to our military base. According to my knowledge, two additional attack helicopters have been brought to that base. I have a question about the action plan of the Estonian Defence Forces in the event of a conflict with the Russians Wagner.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U491	First of all, thank you for this question. I have no official information that Wagner's base is Gaos. I haven't been informed of it anywhere. That's one. Secondly, in the event of an attack on Gao's base, I am more than convinced that both the allies, everyone who is there, also the Estonian Defence Forces, will protect this base.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U492	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U493	Good manager! Good Secretary of Defense! It is one of Africa's important countries, a key country, with Europe in mind. Why don't you enlighten us, you've been there yourself: what's the current security situation in Mali? And how's that Algiers peace treaty coming?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U494	Thank you for that question. And thanks for the opportunity to explain the situation in Mali. As we know, there was a change of power in Mali, and one of the most important agreements, which was actually with the French, was that next year's memory says democratic elections are taking place in Mali. Today's military power, military leaders, of course [tries] about it, wriggle [out], bringing different reasons. They are trying to justify it in such a way that they have to negotiate with their people on how best to conduct democratic elections. This, of course, indicates that they do not comply with the agreement that was concluded, particularly with the French. So this situation is sufficiently turbulence there today and, let's say, attacks on different regions are quite common. Secondly, I know that there will be a meeting in Paris on Friday with the French Minister for Defence, Madame Parly, the Russian Minister for Defence, Shoigu, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Lavrov, where one of the topics is Wagner's use or presence on Mali's territory. Today I cannot appreciate what this could lead to and whether it will lead to anything, but at least such negotiations will take place the day after tomorrow. In short, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U495	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U496	Thank you, Mr President. I'm a little puzzled by your response that you have no record that Wagner has a military base in this area. This makes me a little uneasy because I received this information from Africa a month ago, and I also know that this information exists at the Defence Forces General. If this information was just news to you now, what is your position if you come here with this bill and I think you will receive very important and strategic data only here on the questions of the members of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U497	In particular, I must congratulate the members of the Riigikogu that they are well informed and concerned about what is happening in the world. But I'm going to be more specific about all these things. We've been talking about Wagner's contract with the Malian government all along. Perhaps, in the course of communication, certain thought leads have gone missing. I'll be more specific.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U498	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U499	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I will also ask for further details on the more general political situation in Mali. Yes, on the one hand, it is understandable that the Western countries have made it a condition for military assistance and support for democratic elections, but in a situation where the majority of the south can democratically decide the minority population in the north of the country, it is not really about guaranteeing their rights or democracy, but it is violence. Why have the Western countries not put pressure on the Malian Government to offer autonomy or compromise to minorities in the northern part of the country, including the Tuareegs, whose uprising has caused this conflict to begin more widely?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U500	I cannot answer why the Western countries have not proposed this. We have not discussed this issue with our coalition partners, with whom we have been in Mali, so I am indebted to the answer now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U501	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U502	Good manager! Good minister! Yeah, the day after tomorrow or when it will be when Florence Parly and Sergei Shoigu meet, discussing Wagner and other things. But it's surprising that you're behind this, including Wagner's, as you don't know. And yet, you didn't answer me about the state of implementation of the Algiers Peace Agreement at this moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U503	Excuse me, what peace treaty?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U504	Algiers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U505	What does this have to do with this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U506	Sorry, there is no such possibility of dialogue at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U507	I owe you an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U508	Okay, thanks. Minister, thank you. No further questions. Thank you. Now I ask for a presentation by Jaak Juske, member of the National Defence Committee, and this report should come to us from the screen. Please, Mr. Juske! Mr. Juske, you are not to be heard. Mr. Juske, you have a microphone outside. Can you turn on your microphone? [[Silence.]] Well, it's the charms and pains of this distancing session. But let us hope that Mr Juske will be able to reconnect, and we can proceed nicely with this item on the agenda, which is 20, and this is a draft decision of 450. I believe that Jaak Juske, Member of the Committee on National Defence, will be right back and will be able to provide us with important information that the Commission has decided and how this procedure was. So, Jaak Juske, please! [[Silence.]] Mr. Juske, you are not to be heard. You still can't be heard. Let's do it, honourable Riigikogu, that I take the chairman's break in three minutes and try to make contact with Jaak Juske in three minutes. Break three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U509	Good fellows, the chairman's break is over. We are on the 20th item, draft 450, and I will give the floor to Jaak Juske, Member of the National Defence Committee. Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U510	[[Remote connection]] Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm really sorry about the little mess. Coming to the draft, as with other similar drafts, the National Defence Committee discussed this at its meeting on 11 October with the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence officials. A day later, the National Defence Commission met with the Foreign Affairs Committee with the General Staff of the Defence Forces, and we received an overview of our foreign missions. The debate continued at the Commission meeting on 26 October. Now, the draft deals with two missions this time, as the Minister has already said. According to point 1 of the draft, the deadline for the use of the Estonian Defence Forces is extended for the European Union Training Mission in Mali, Africa. Estonia would contribute to this mission next year with the training instructors of the Defence Forces, whose task is to provide military training to the Malian units, and we would also contribute to the process of planning and consulting staff officers whose task is to coordinate military training for the Malian units. Mali's mission is one of the most important missions of the European Union, with a total of 22 EU Member States contributing to it, plus three non-EU countries. As a Member State of the European Union, it remains important for Estonia to contribute to the implementation of the Union's common security and defence policy. In line with the mandate of the Council of the European Union, this mission will be extended to Niger and Burkina Faso next year. In the course of the debate, the Commission raised the question whether, like other drafts, the title of the draft should mention the new countries affected by this mission. In addition, the National Defence Commission intends to harmonise terminology in section 1 of the draft for a second reading and to correct some clerical errors. According to point 2 of the draft, the participation of up to 5 members of the Estonian Defence Forces in Mali in the UN peacekeeping mission MINUSMA is extended. And next year Estonia will contribute to MINUSMA with staff officers. A total of 1,8010 persons participate in MINUSMA's operation as of August this year. Over 12,000 of them are military, the rest of the police. There are also civilians and volunteers. Now the National Defence Committee's procedural decisions. Propose to the Riigikogu that the draft be placed on the agenda of today's sitting for the first reading and stop the first reading of the draft. Also, appoint me rapporteur for the draft committee and, by consensus from the National Defence Committee, propose that the draft be set by the deadline for submitting amendments. a 22 November at 10.30 a.m. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U511	Thank you, good waitress. There are no questions for you. Do you want to open negotiations? No, I don't. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 22 November at 10.30 a.m. This concludes the first reading of draft 450 and concludes the 20th item.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U512	We will move on to item 21, which is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision to extend the term of use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the Estonian state's international obligations in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria. I request the Secretary of Defence Kalle Laaneti of the Riigikogu's speech chair. I would kindly ask you to come to this Riigikogu speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U513	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! If the President of the Riigikogu allows me, I would like to give details of the previous draft for the sake of the minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U514	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U515	The Department of Defense has no information that Mali has Wagner bases in Gao or somewhere else. Coming to this draft decision, on 29 May 1948 the UN Security Council adopted Resolution No 50, which called for an end to hostilities in Palestine and decided that the Israeli-Palestinian truce would be monitored by a UN mediator assisted by military observers. As a result, there are 153 military observers from a total of 27 countries, including 11 NATO Member States, participating in the UN's oldest peacekeeping mission. Military observers are unarmed and are responsible for monitoring compliance with peace agreements and arms agreements in the Middle East, thereby avoiding conflict escalation. Our proposal is for Estonia to contribute with three military observers, but we will apply for a mandate to contribute with up to six members of the Defence Forces in 2022. In short, it's all right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U516	A good waitress, Minister, there are also questions for you. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U517	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I understand that we are talking about a post-conflict peacekeeping mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria. Is it to be understood that there is now a conflict in all these countries and a post-conflict peace-building mission?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U518	That's how I understand this preparatory material.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U519	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U520	Good manager! Good waitress! The world is a small one: my colleague is close to Mali, I have Lebanon, my daughter lives in Lebanon, and that is why this mission is very important to me. The fact that the Estonian Defence Forces are watching, too, without weapons on the border is watching, and nothing has really gotten better. What you're watching is escalation all the time, and sitting on a barrel goes there in Beirut and Lebanon to this day on top of everything else. How long do you think this could last, this "watching"? Moreover, two are sent to balance this report. It's endless. Is there any end to this escalation, or is it just gonna be hundreds of years?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U521	Thank you. I'm sure you have a better picture than I do because of your personal family ties, but guaranteeing peace is indeed a consistent process in the world and, of course, it depends on a lot of things. When the peace we expect and see will come to this region, I am unfortunately indebted to the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U522	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U523	Good manager! What is also important to me is what is happening in Syria. But I didn't count from here whether the Estonian boys are in Syria and are monitoring the situation without weapons. Maybe I didn't count it out.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U524	According to my information, the Estonian Defence Forces have so far acted as observers in Lebanon, Israel and Syria.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U525	Minister, there is now a question for you via the Internet as well. Here comes Heiki Kranich on screen.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U526	[[Remote connection]] Minister, thank you very much. Don't you think the last questions have been exceptionally simple?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U527	Let's just say that the questions of the members of the Riigikogu are precisely from the wall to the wall. And every question that a member of the Riigikogu asks is, of course, important. But thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U528	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I ask Mati Raidma, Member of the National Defence Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U529	I'm about to clear the place. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U530	Mr. Secretary of Defense! The oldest UNTSO peacekeeping observation mission mentioned in the draft is based, as the Minister mentioned, on UN Security Council Resolution number 50 of 1948. Estonian Defence Forces have been participating in this mission as military observers and staff officers since 1997. The UNTSO mission is a purely UN observation mission. As a member of the United Nations, Estonia contributes to peace in the crisis area. Estonia is actively participating in UN missions, which are in line with our foreign and security policy decision to increase visibility in the UN. Participation in foreign missions is one of the most important means of defence policy that will provide our defence forces with the necessary international experience. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft at its meeting, including on 11 October, before submitting it to first reading, where the draft and related details were presented by Defence Minister Kalle Laane, Head of the Political Planning Department of the Ministry of Defence, Tuuli Duneton, and a ministry official. The question raised by the Commission was that the draft explanatory memorandum also mentions Jordan as the UNTSO mission area, but we were assured that the Estonian Defence Forces would not go to Jordan and therefore the mandate would not be asked for it. The Commission has also addressed this mission at its meetings, including on 12 October and 26 October. Procedural decisions. The National Defence Committee decided by consensus in its s. a At its meeting on 11 October, the Riigikogu Board was asked to include the draft under discussion for the first reading on the agenda of today's sitting of the Riigikogu and to propose that the Riigikogu stop the first reading of the draft. I was appointed representative of the National Defence Commission. The National Defence Committee also decided unanimously to propose that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 10.30 a.m. on 22 November. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U531	Dear waitress, thank you. There are no questions for you. Do you want to open negotiations? No, I don't. It is now that the lead committee has made very clear proposals. First of all, finish the first reading. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 22 November at 10.30 a.m. That concludes the first reading of draft 451 and brings the 21st item to an end.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U532	We will proceed to the 22nd item, which is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the international obligations of the Estonian State during a military operation led by France in the target unit Takuba Mali and Niger (formerly known as "Use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the execution of the French military operation in Barkhane Mali"). I ask the Minister of Defence Kalle Laaneti to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U533	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! This draft decision is, in fact, one of the most important requests for a mandate for next year. Estonia's largest military contribution to international commitments will be the French-led military operation in the target unit Takuba next year. What's the purpose? Through Takuba, Estonia participates in the fight against terrorism, in order to prevent the activities of armed extremist groups and the resulting illegal migration to Europe. Estonia's defence policy interest is to support a stable security environment for European citizens and therefore to combat threats to Europe, if possible also at their origin. At the same time, Estonia's participation in the operation led by France demonstrates our solidarity with France in facing common challenges. As a member of the Sahel Coalition, day-to-day cooperation on Mali has significantly deepened defence cooperation with France. Our contacts have been very close, and our support for each other on important security issues has been greatly strengthened. On a military level, the Defence Forces are very pleased with the experience of the operation. Of course, it is also important that France is one of the countries contributing to eFP in Estonia and for the first time this year it will contribute to eFP for 12 months instead of the current 8-month rotation. The proposal is to continue the French-led operation at the same level as this year, i.e. 75 members of the Defence Forces. Due to the adaptation of France's presence in the Sahel and the termination of the Barkhane operation, Estonia, in addition to the special operators, is also taking the infantry group still operating under the Barkhane operation into the Takuba target unit. The duties of the infantry group and the special operators remain the same. Infantry, base defense, patrolling the immediate vicinity of the base, and rapid response in emergency situations. Special operators: advice, tactical training and security and support for operations by the Malian Armed Forces. In the target unit Takuba, we intend to continue with a mechanized infantry team at Gao base, a support element, staff officers and a special operations unit. In addition to the territory of Mali, as a new circumstance, I request that special operators be able to carry out training and operations on the territory of Niger, which will enable cross-border operations to be carried out and be more effective in meeting the objectives of the operations. The Takuba target unit is a strong and unique European special forces training mission, to which the Czech, Swedish, Italian, Netherlands, Portugal and Belgium contribute today in addition to France and Estonia. Denmark, Norway, Hungary, Romania and Lithuania will join next year. At the moment, European countries contribute approximately 700 Defence Forces to Takuba. As of this month, Sweden is the head of the target unit and the United States and the United Kingdom offer air transport. In addition to the experience of training Malian Defence Forces, a vital military experience is gained for cooperation between European special forces. We talked briefly about the security situation in Mali, but we can definitely talk again if questions arise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U534	Thank you, Minister. There are questions. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U535	Thank you. Dear Minister, We have talked very much about Russia and Wagner with regard to Mali, but in comparison to Russia, the same evil country is the People's Republic of China, and the Red Chinese soldiers have been inside Mali since 2013. There's a contingent rotting in the meantime, but the Red China base is in that country. That is my question: where do these double standards come from? In the case of Russia, we draw red lines and say that when they come in, we go out, but we don't even know about the presence of Red China. Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U536	Good questioner! The situation is that we cannot quite clearly compare two countries, Russia and China, because China today is not our enemy, but we must monitor very clearly the growth of his, say so, military capabilities in the world. But Russia is a direct threat to us and our security. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U537	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U538	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Our mission there, however, began with the request of the Central Government of Mali for assistance in the fight against the Islamic extremists. After all, the central government of Mali has now lost its power and there is military leadership, which has led to the presence of Wagner, the Russian wage army. For me, it is a matter of strategy. Clearly, the existence of two strong forces with different views of some things there can lead to escalation of tension and direct contact. What must be the situation in order for Estonian soldiers to leave? Does it require a decision by the French, or are we able to decide on our own?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U539	I am convinced that Estonia, as an independent state, as a sovereign state, is prepared to make its own security decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U540	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U541	Good manager! I'd like to hear a little bit more about [the places] where our big units are setting things up. What is the current operational situation? I am not asking about Mali, but about Niger and Burkina Faso, on whose territory our units will be operating once this mission is approved.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U542	Thank you for your question. The security situation has not become much calmer in this sense, nor has it escalated more. To be perfectly frank and honest, when I visited Gao's base in March, it was precisely the special operators themselves that wanted them to have more opportunities to react, so that it was not so directly linked to national borders. Let's just say that in certain operations, you have to look very closely at where you are, because if you accidentally cross the border, it can have certain legal consequences. Consequently, this request, too, is included in this draft decision so that we do not view it so clearly in relation to borders. There's a way to cross the border for operations if necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U543	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U544	Good manager! Good minister! Those boundaries are there as they are. But is it the approval of the Niger and Burkina Faso governments that our boys can cross the border? And when are you going to Niger or Burkina Faso to see the situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U545	I have to admit, I don't know when I should be going there. But certainly [must go], I imagine when the situation becomes more critical, also for decision-making. For example, if the situation changes so that the Malian authorities decide to enter into closer negotiations with Russia, because today Russia has relatively openly confirmed that they are in direct contact with the Malian authorities, not simply through Wagner. So there is, in fact, a very clear signal that the Russian authorities have intervened in operations in Mali. One way to understand why they are doing this is because they want to expand their powers. As regards visits to Burkina Faso or Niger, since our defence forces are not located there, they are located in Mali's territory, I have not planned a visit to these places at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U546	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U547	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. The fact that China and Russia, including Wagner, are active in this region should not surprise us. It's ours every day, and we have to accept it. In fact, the Minister also does not have to answer questions about what our special operations leaders are doing in Mali and what our cross-border operations in Nigeria will be like. It is clear that the whole conflict is expanding. But do you believe, as minister, that it's okay? And do you believe that the French will not leave us alone?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U548	I have explained to my French colleague quite directly and without embellishing what our chances of continuing or not, and my French colleague understands that we cannot be in Mali with Wagner. Of course, this is also, in a sense, our surrender in that it strengthens the influence of the Russians in the region. But we still need to look first and foremost from this point of view at the same time as we are together, Estonia and internally. So the brief answer is that I cannot clearly say what the French and French defence ministers will say if the situation escalates, looking at cooperation with the Russian army, Wagner.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U549	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U550	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. This is the absurd situation we are in. There is no legitimate government in Mali: there has been a coup; this country is essentially divided into several pieces; there is a very multi-layered civil war. The French stand there for their colonial interests, interested that Mali's raw materials, which are necessary for their nuclear industry and their industry as a whole, would be under their control. Russia has also intervened now, and we are still stubbornly trying to keep our soldiers in Mali just as if to maintain some sort of order. Do you not think that this is such an absurd situation that we should not even discuss extending this mission here now, but should end it on a daily basis?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U551	Thank you. First of all, I wish Mardi Mardi a beautiful day! This question and the comment about it, of course, I agree that the situation is very complicated. But because of our geographic location and our size, we are always faced with very difficult choices. I don't know how much you listened to my introduction, but as we know, today we have 800 French soldiers in the eFP in Tapa, and this is a very serious force in terms of deterrence. And we have to take that into account. So all the decisions we have to make in security policy are complicated, extremely complicated.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U552	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U553	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Well, you're making it clear here in black and white that the French care more about Mali than about Estonia. That if we are not in Mali with our 20 soldiers, 800 French soldiers will leave Estonia or not lift a finger if we have a conflict with a potential aggressor. That's not a serious story either. If we have alliances, if we are NATO partners, if we have signed NATO agreements with the latter since the first paragraph, then it cannot be said that we are earning the support of the French in a conflict with a possible aggressor only because we are in Mali and we are in a colonial war with the French in their former colony. Do you understand that this is not a serious argument?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U554	By way of introduction, I can say that there are no free lunches, that is point one. And point two is that when we talk about allied relations, allies are extremely important. In this view, why is the Czech Republic, why is Sweden, why is Italy, why is the Netherlands, why is Portugal, why is Belgium and immediately Denmark, Norway, Hungary, Romania and Lithuania joining in Mali?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U555	Good Minister, there are no further questions for you. And now Vice President of the National Defence Commission, Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U556	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of Defense! Ladies and gentlemen, Operation Takuba. Mr. Secretary of Defense has already given a fairly thorough overview, but I will specify and supplement it in some more detail. The current operation Barkhane will become Operation Takuba and territorially extend from Mali to Niger and Burkina Faso. Since the boundaries are "painted on the sand" there, this operation would be technically very difficult to keep purely Mali within when we are talking about the activities of special operators. So let's continue with a unit of up to 75. France is in charge of the operation, and there are now a number of new partners in addition to the countries we have already seen. Barhane said that in 2014, we started practically two of us and other allies with France, and there were no partners there at the time. Takuba as a special operation was launched on 27 March 2020 and reached full operational capability by April 2021, i.e. in one year. There are 600 militias from different countries that I'm not going to recount here. What's going on? The Malian Armed Forces, of course, with operational training. Also participating in operations with Malian units, sending them there, as well as securing them and fighting with them when necessary. All these preparatory procedures to get this draft to this hall have already been discussed by previous speakers. There were two sessions where we went through matters with both the General Staff and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, as well as the Committee on National Defence. I am not going to repeat these formalities here, but I am going to sum them up in such a way that we made such procedural decisions: on 11 October 2021, we decided by consensus to appoint me rapporteur and to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft be placed on the agenda of the Riigikogu meeting on 10 November for the first reading. In addition, the committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu to stop the first reading of the draft decision and to propose to the President of the Riigikogu that the deadline for submitting the draft amendments be set at 10.30 a.m. on 22 November 2021. That's all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U557	Ruuben Kaalep would like to ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U558	Thank you. Good waitress! A year ago, the Riigikogu gave a mandate for the participation of Estonian soldiers in Mali, and now, a year later, we are renewing this mandate for one year. I ask this question: has there been any developments in Mali during this year, which should call into question whether it is justified to extend this mission by Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U559	Let me briefly summarise these developments. At the end of May, a military coup took place in Mali, and Colonel Goita and his assistants came into power. The military government is now in power in Mali. Yes, it has been said that the military government should hand over power to a democratically elected civilian government in February next year, but it is not known whether this will actually happen. We do not know exactly what the current government's policy is. We can clearly see that Colonel Goita, as a learned man in Russia and a man related to Russia, can and does wish that Russia's participation in Russia could increase, not the official Russian armed forces, but that we are talking about Wagner, a private military company. We also do not know who will be in power in Mali, what the policy of this civilian government will be next year and it will be difficult for us to make any qualified predictions here. Yes, unfortunately, the situation has become much more complex and unstable. I repeat why we went to Mali: France is our important ally, France is a strengthened company, or group-size unit, within the battle group of Tapa, and France is now the only nuclear power in the European Union. To put it plainly, France's military support is important to us. Now we have to consider the arguments. There's one big argument in favour and there's a whole line of arguments against it. Controversies have, in a way, strengthened over the course of the year. Also, all the old problems we had, perhaps the Tuareg problem, the human rights problem in Mali, the war crimes problem that I spoke about last year answering questions, they have not disappeared, unfortunately. The situation is what it is, and this is the picture I can give you from public sources. I don't have any more information.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U560	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U561	[[Remote connection]] I actually have an old question. Yeah, nothing's really changed in Mali. We are today expanding our areal to other countries next door. My question to you as a military specialist is this: does everything we do today make the Estonian army stronger?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U562	The military operations in which we have been involved have, of course, given us the experience of war. We've had experience in anti-pig operations. We have not had any experience of operations in Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere in the main battles, i.e. defence, delay and attack. We didn't get that. But undoubtedly, who has been in the area of warfare, for them the first experience is psychological. But I'd expand that answer more. Yes, all these operations have been like one centre of gravity, a strong and reliable government on the ground. That is why we did not do well in Iraq, there was no such government. That is why we finally lost, in the war in Afghanistan, there was never such a strong, reliable and uncomplicated government. Here, too, there is the same problem: there is no legitimate government in Mali at all at the moment. If there is no support point to support, it is, of course, very difficult to do so. On the other hand, we have no national interests in Mali, unlike France. In Afghanistan and Iraq, too, we did not really have any national interests, so we had nothing to lose in these wars, too, and that is why these wars did not end in defeat for us. But Afghanistan, for example, if we were still there in the framework of the NATO Article 5 operation, which we announced in the alliance in support of the United States following the major terrorist attack in 2001, and it ended with a loss for us, then China, Russia and others, of course, also smaller regional powers, such as Iran, will draw their own conclusions for the United States and NATO, all of us, which are not very positive for us. But for us, it's important that we face reality as well as we can. And we would try to analyse both the operations that have taken place and those that are currently taking place well objectively so that we have no illusions about them, even with regard to possible results or achievements.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U563	No further questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. No requests to speak, I will close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading. The first reading is closed and I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 10.30 a.m. on 22 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U564	The 23rd item is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision "Use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the first contribution to this by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or its Member State, the European Union or other international military operation led by the United Nations." Please, Secretary of Defense Kalle Laane.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U565	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Before I specifically go to this draft decision, I would emphasise once again what is behind these draft decisions. This is our solidarity capital, our allied capital, so that we can strengthen our security, our daily security, plus, of course, our defence forces for all those involved in these various missions, getting experience, plus their personal contacts, understanding and experience. This is the capital that we need to raise with these various missions. But to come specifically to this draft decision, Estonia's clear interest in security and defence policy is to be flexible and quick to help its closest allies, if necessary. Of course, we expect, especially in today's fickle security situation, that we too will be helped as soon as possible and very quickly. The Government of the Republic will also request a mandate for the next year for a possible first and urgent contribution to NATO or its Member State, the European Union or the United Nations-led other international military operations with up to 50 members of the Defence Forces. The exact contribution and size of Estonia depends, of course, on the needs of the specific operation and our possibilities. If the Riigikogu is willing to give a mandate, we can ensure a swift and flexible contribution to the rapidly escalating situation, which does not fall under other exceptions that allow for a rapid response as provided for in the National Defence Act, such as participation in NATO's response forces, or to an international military operation which is essential to Estonia's security policy, if there is an urgent need to do so. Estonia's contribution and its size will depend on the needs of the specific operation and will be decided on the basis of § 34 61 of the National Defence Act. The continued use of the Defence Forces in the same operation shall be decided in general accordance with paragraph 1 of that section. Has such a mandate been used in the past? This mandate has been used twice. Last year, in order to continue to contribute within the European Union to the Mediterranean when EUNAVFOR Med/Sophia was converted into EUNAVFOR Med/Irin, it was necessary to apply for an exceptional mandate to continue its participation in the mission. This year, to start contributing to a training mission in Mozambique. There are currently no specific contribution plans for 2022 for which the mandate would be used upon its entry into force. At the same time, there were major changes to long-term operations in 2021, as we have said today: the NATO operation in Afghanistan was terminated; the US contribution to Iraq is changing. At the same time, the attention of the international community is increasingly on the move to Africa, which we have also talked about a lot today, where, unfortunately, instability has not improved, rather is growing. Today, it is difficult to assess exactly how current developments affect security in different parts of the world and the interest of Estonian key allies in conflicting with the military operation. To this end, Estonia should maintain its readiness to contribute to the initiatives of key allies or international organisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U566	Kalle Grünthal would like to ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U567	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister of Defence! I read in the explanatory memorandum that conflicts and crises in different regions of the world can escalate unexpectedly and quickly, and then it will be possible to send defence forces to the area where they take place. You have mentioned two cases now, when it has been used, because only the immediate area has been dealt with here, but on the basis of the explanatory memorandum, we can send the world to different regions that go beyond our "near neighbourhood," where we have a justified need, but maybe you will describe, based on history, which crisis or conflict could still be used.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U568	Yeah, here I would hypothetically start bringing something out, and I wouldn't want to do that. So let's just stick to what I was referring to here, if that's okay.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U569	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U570	Good manager! Good minister! It's the kind of blanco unit that can go without knowing where, don't know... Well, when do we know? But for how long and why? After all, these tensions are known where NATO or any NATO country, or the European Union or the United Nations military missions are. Where do you think this "blank squad" could land next year to make peace?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U571	Yeah, well, let's just say I don't know how to predict it in that form, so where would it land on that basis? Today our security situation in the world will change in days. Let's just take what's going on in our near-neighborhood, Poland-Belarus border. Luckily, this is a hybrid attack, but we don't know why it can escalate, how fast, etc. I don't want to speculate here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U572	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U573	[[Remote connection]] I don't have to speculate here at all. If there were never any Finnish boys, we would not have such a debate today. And if we forget the contribution of the Finnish boys, we've really forgotten a lot. There is really no point in building speculation on that. Period.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U574	Period.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U575	Heiki... I'm sorry! Yeah, I think Kranich's finished, now it's Peter Ernits. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U576	Good manager! Good minister! I don't have a chance to warm myself up in this nice sauna atmosphere right now. But I'm still asking. Consequently, this blanco unit may also land in Poland or Lithuania or... How many countries could there really be where this half a hundred-headed blanco unit will most likely land next year? Or maybe it doesn't really come in handy? What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U577	I'd rather think it wouldn't be necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U578	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U579	[[Remote connection]] I hope the Finns will come to our aid.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U580	No further questions. Thank you! Now, once again, I would like to ask the Vice President of the National Defence Commission, Leo Kunnas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U581	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of Defense! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm honored to report the same type of bill for the third time. In other words, possible participation in the first international military operation led by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, the European Union or the United Nations, with up to 50 members of the Defence Forces. The Minister has already mentioned that it has been implemented twice in the past, most recently this year in Mozambique. I'm not gonna go over this again. Yes, there is, of course, a lot of speculation here where this unit can theoretically be used. We don't have a geographical limit. Here it begins that we are not likely to use it until, for example, we are involved with the United States forces in defending Taiwan. So it could go from one extreme to another, and we really don't know anything about it right now. All standard procedures, as with other drafts, we went through. So two meetings of the Commission plus a joint meeting with the Committee on Foreign Affairs at headquarters. I will also mention this before I go to procedural decisions, that I am convinced that this mandate, this bill of lading, has not been abused in the past by the government, that no government has done so, and that we have reason to be sure or to believe that it will continue to do so. But the security situation in the immediate vicinity and all over the world is very fickle. We all know that we have to be prepared for anything, practically anything. But now to procedural decisions. The committee, by consensus at its meeting on 11 October, proposed to the Riigikogu Board that the draft under discussion be included on the agenda of the Riigikogu meeting on 10 November for the first reading and that the Riigikogu should be invited to conclude the first reading of the draft. I was appointed representative of the draft committee. At the same meeting, the National Defence Committee also decided by consensus to propose a deadline for the submission of draft amendments of 22 November 2021 at 10.30 a.m. That's all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U582	There's no questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. No requests, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of 453 OE. We have finished the first reading, setting the deadline for submitting amendments at 10.30 a.m. on 22 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U583	We have clearly reached today's last item on the agenda, which is the draft decision of the Riigikogu on extending the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the UN peacekeeping mission in Lebanon, submitted by the Government of the Republic, 454. Please, Secretary of Defense Kalle Laane.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U584	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! As has been said here before, the purpose of this draft mission is precisely the stabilising role in the [Lebanon and the whole] region, which has a deterrent effect on the spread of violence. UNIFIL's main task is to monitor the situation in the region, to contribute to preventing hostilities and to ensuring international peace and security, and to support the Lebanese Government in securing state power in the south of the country. The area of operation of UNIFIL is located in the area between the litan River and the Blue Line (the United Nations border line between Israel and Lebanon, confirmed by the United Nations on 7 June 2000). The legal basis for UNIFIL is the UN Security Council Resolution. The mandate of the Mission shall be extended annually, most recently by Resolution 2591 (2021) in August 2021. Nearly 10,000 people from 46 countries are currently participating in the mission. The proposal is that Estonia will continue to contribute to one of the staff officers in 2022, we will ask for a mandate for up to three members of the Defence Forces. [Their] task would be to analyse the results of the survey in order to prepare the meetings and raise awareness of the situation. Why is Estonia still participating? As a member of the UN, Estonia contributes to ensuring security in crisis areas. As a country contributing to collective security, Estonia is closely monitoring the security policy impact of events in the Middle East and on stability in the Middle East and in the rest of the world. The participation of Estonian Defence Forces in UN operations strengthens Estonia's contribution to the UN's efforts to ensure peace. Yeah, I guess he's going into the same area, like I said before, why we're even on missions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U585	Heiki Kranich would like to ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U586	[[Remote connection]] I'd like to make a joke now. In 1982, when I was a Russian crown, I was called upon to confirm that I wanted to help the heroic Lebanese people. I didn't understand what their heroism was, and I had no intention of going to help them. But how has the situation changed now that we are going to help them? I didn't want to, I didn't. What's gonna happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U587	Thank you for your comment and your question. That is, let us say, the sharing of our solidarity and our participation in the UN's activities, which is linked to our allied relations. We have so far been involved in this activity and we are also asking for a mandate for next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U588	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U589	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I rushed into this hall because I heard there was a need for methods against this hostilities. [Reading] the book The Collision of Civilizations, which described how we are trying to move democracy to countries where it is not much expected, I had an agile idea. Would it not be possible in the region, for example, to legitimise the law of hate speech, which bans hatred as such and also extends to hostilities?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U590	In my opinion, a member of the Riigikogu, a citizen of a sovereign state, can make his or her proposals to different organisations.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U591	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U592	Good manager! I'm gonna go to another wave, too. Mr Kranich here spoke of how he never wanted to go to defend Lebanon's peace. But if, at the moment, Mr Kranichi were to send Lebanon, would the situation change significantly in this case?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U593	Thank you. This is a really difficult question, and I think that the honourable Member of the Riigikogu, Heiki Kranich, should answer it first. After all, it is up to me to think of what attitudes and goals he is going to take and what he wants to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U594	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U595	Good manager! One more question, financial question. There is little money and there are many poor people, but there is EUR 45200 for spending in the south of Lebanon, and this money is not the salary of these officers, as I have heard before, but it is something else. Describe to me or to us what this EUR 45200 is going for. Is that a plane ticket there and back or a drink in the car or some kind of equipment? What's 45200 for?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U596	Thank you for your question. It has been reported to me that it will be spent on this mission at the operational costs of the Defence Forces. If you want a more precise copy, I can, as I promised before, give it after writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U597	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U598	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I am about to say that I am not a proponent of war, I am also a proponent of peace. Peace, like Karlsson said from the roof. But I kept thinking that Lebanon was not really an international organisation. However, I do have the idea that we will send our observers to watch their elections. Is that, well, your own experience, how it is: are we expecting them, or are we still trying to introduce some kind of democratic election into the way others live, if they may be able to run their own community on some other basis?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U599	Thank you for that question. After all, we are directing our defence forces to the United Nations peacekeeping mission. There are certain activities being carried out within this mission, not going bilaterally to that country. The way in which citizens of one country or people living there accept things really depends on how these people understand these things and on the attitudes they take. I'm quite convinced that hardly everyone applauds it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U600	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U601	[[Remote connection]] You know, I would go absolutely everywhere, just like I've gone everywhere so far, just for two things: pride and vanity. Put the money in that dark place.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U602	I understand it was a comment, not a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U603	Whatever it was. Mart Helme is next.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U604	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I'd like to discuss these missions more broadly. We've had a whole series of discussions here. Let's take a look at history. We went to take democracy to Iraq. We lost several Estonian boys, a good Estonian boy. And what about Iraq? The essentially divided state, and the Iraqis are the main mass of the people we now have on the Polish-Lithuanian border. We went to bring democracy and fight terrorism in Afghanistan. We fought for 20 years, and then we came, tail between our legs, away. NATO, as they scornfully say, was smacked by ragheads. What happens next in Afghanistan, I don't know. The Taliban has launched a savage drug trade to support its country, because we have imposed sanctions for retaliation as well. Well, good, good. The middle class of Estonia and Western countries will then have to support them in their drug abuse. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U605	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U606	Lebanon has been a country for half a century that does not exist in substance.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U607	Mr. Helme! We are not negotiating, Mr Helme! We're not negotiating. One minute and twenty is worn out.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U608	Yeah, I'm sorry! Okay. Shouldn't we review our mission policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U609	I thank you for your comments. We have used this expression in the context of our security: never again alone. This means that, in order for the Estonian state to develop, we can maintain our sovereignty so that we can offer our Estonian people an independent state, we are in the hands of choices every day. And these choices aren't easy. That is why our constitution and other laws have also been introduced in such a way that these choices must be made largely, say, practically all complex choices must be made by those who are represented by the people, that is, in this Chamber. And together, we must make these choices on the draft decisions for these missions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U610	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U611	[[Remote connection]] Of course, I expected such a patronizing lecture. I'm just reminding you that the strong do what they want, the weak do what they have to do. Estonia shows with all these decisions that it considers itself to be a weak state that cannot cope on its own, that has to appeal all the time to the fact that someone approves and says that we agree that you are independent, and that your independence remains solely by our grace. Wouldn't it make more sense to review this very stupid and awkward prelude?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U612	Thank you for that comment. I dare to think that wisdom does not mean weakness.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U613	No further questions, thank you! Now, on the side of the National Defence Commission, Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U614	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, It's a pleasure to be here with today's final presentation. Since all of today's mission proposals have begun with exactly the same information, I will not repeat this information in the interests of saving time. All I am saying is that the draft has been discussed in the Committee on National Defence on 11 October, 12 October and 26 October as well. As the Minister for Defence was very concerned about the content of the draft, I do not have the point of repeating it again. However, I tell the historical enthusiasts such a small digression that the Estonian Defence Forces have for the first time participated in a mission in Lebanon in 1996-1997 with a company-sized unit, and in historical chronology this was the second foreign mission of the Estonian Defence Forces. The first foreign mission of the Estonian Defence Forces was, in fact, if my memory does not deceive me, in 1995 in Croatia. Procedural decisions: At the meeting on 11 October, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to appoint the speaker as the representative of the leading committee and to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading of the draft. The committee also decided to propose to the President of the Riigikogu that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 10.30 a.m. on 22 November. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-10_U615	There's no questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. There's no wish for words. I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading. First reading of Bill 454 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 10.30 a.m. on 22 November. Ladies and gentlemen, the story is that the hearing is over. Have a good night and I'll see you tomorrow morning at 10:00.
