ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U1	Good fellows, honourable Riigikogu, good afternoon! We will resume the Question Time of the Riigikogu on 21 April in a remote session. A lot of people already want to get together, have come to me with information, a lot of people say hello. But we'll go on like this this this week. In today's briefing, we'll be conducting a presence check first. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U2	31 members of the Riigikogu registered as a placeholder, there are no 70 members. We have Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, Minister of Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse and Minister of the Interior Kristian Jaani in briefing today. Everyone, please observe that there are two minutes to ask the question, three minutes to reply. As many questions have already been registered in advance, there is a request that we ask one more question and one additional question for each of the main issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U3	And let's get started. The first question, Member of the Riigikogu Indrek Saar. He is answered by a member of the government, Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, on the subject of a health crisis. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U4	Thank you, Mr President, for giving the floor. Prime Minister! The health crisis has evolved in its own way. The state has played a role in this. We have just heard government plans on how to gradually ease the restrictions. This mainly concerns the 3rd of May. I remember when your government took office, you were about to take action to ease the restrictions. You did so in a situation where you might have realized that you wanted to bring a positive message, but you did so in a situation where the background of the infection had already been unacceptably elevated. And that decision poured more oil into the fire. Even now that you have announced the relaxation of restrictions, the members of the scientific council have reacted quite critically. They have said that they expected you to learn from past mistakes. They think you've been too hasty to ease the restrictions. I ask for your comment on how much you listened to the scientific council. On the other hand, we are interested in how all of this will be linked to the White Paper process in order to mitigate these restrictions. Will the White Paper be more precise in the long term about which restrictions can be expected to be alleviated in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U5	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U6	Thank you. Have a nice spring day! It's a beautiful day when someone gets out. Now, the restrictions. The main debate we had yesterday was whether to allow outdoor activities. There are two ways of communicating: either to say that the restrictions will be extended until 3 May, or to say that the restrictions will be relaxed on 3 May. The current restrictions apply until 25 April, which means that the government had to take a decision in any case. The scientific council's proposal was to let the 1st-grade 4 school on 26 April. It was their proposal. But during the discussions in the cabinet, it seemed that it was too early, because the figures were not good at all. Yes, there are forecasts in the reports presented by the Scientific Advisory Board, where we'll end up in different scenarios when we reach a low level. On the basis of these, however, the cabinet decided that the children would not go to school on April 26 after school break. This buffer must be kept, because people have also travelled, travelled around Estonia, and therefore we must minimise the risk of the virus spreading again. So actually, if you're saying that there are restrictions, you could say that we extended the restrictions until 3 May, except for outdoor sports. People are doing this in dozens of groups anyway, and it would be strange to limit it right now, especially if we want to encourage outdoor activities. Now for the white book. As has been said many times, the White Paper is not a proposal to alleviate restrictions. The White Paper provides these guidelines and is likely to work in the autumn. How people start or should behave at one level of danger or another. We also have a risk matrix on the White Paper, with different risk levels. And at least in the government, we're monitoring the movement of this mummun in the table from the red side to the orange side to the yellow side in different regions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U7	Thank you. Now, here's a very specific question. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U8	Thank you for your answer. I am glad that the White Paper will, however, be content sometime. Yeah, we all realize that it could have been born a year ago, then maybe we could have relied on something today. However, I refer once again to the fact that the members of the scientific council have criticised the government for easing too fast the restrictions and pointed out that they suggested that they do everything in their power to ensure that schoolchildren get to school so that schoolchildren can operate in an organized manner outside. The government has rather preferred pubs and malls. My question was, why do you think it's different than the science council? But I want to ask you about a very specific matter concerning the vaccination programme. We have talked about this repeatedly over the weeks, but I have unfortunately failed to arouse empathy for those people who are forced to do their job in a job that cannot work remotely. When we talk about sick days, they get unfairly punished with less pay than they can't go to work. I have a question: now that more vaccines arrive, can we at least open a priority line for them in the vaccination plan? Those people who can work remotely may be able to wait a few weeks longer, but those people who have to go to work in production, to service who cannot stay in teleworking, maybe get vaccinated as a priority. Has this been mentioned in the government? Would you be willing to consider this in order to create such a priority in addition to those specific frontline workers who have already been screened out?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U9	Mrs. Kaja Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U10	Thank you. The scientific council advises the government and, of course, the government listens and asks questions. It's just that the advice is very variable. In January, they said the infection would go down as soon as we shut down the schools. And if nothing happened, they said it wasn't supposed to happen. When we kept asking about the spread of the British strain, it was said that this spread was not actually so extensive. But later, it turned out to be a spread. But the scientific council is not responsible for its recommendations. The government, however, is responsible for the decisions it makes. Of course, it is possible to criticise these decisions. But I stress once again: the proposal of the Scientific Advisory Board was to open schools all over Estonia on 26 April, although the infection rate in Tallinn and Ida-Viru County is still very high. The government decided not to take this risk and to open schools only on 3 May. You say we prefer pubs. No, I don't. All the decisions we make must be justified. And we've explained what the scientific council says is that the virus doesn't spread in the field. Therefore, from 3 May, catering establishments will not be able to open their rooms, but will be able to serve people outdoors. That means that the catering facilities don't go off exactly, as you say, they don't open the pubs. Your second question concerned vaccination. But there's one assumption that unfortunately isn't true. That assumption is that we have enough vaccines. Indeed, if we are looking at the supply of vaccines now, the supplies of AstraZeneca are constantly smaller than is allowed. For example, next week there was to be 50846 doses, but there will be 2400 doses. Maybe then we're still short on vaccines. And under these conditions, we go on to vaccinate older people with family doctors, and that is precisely because they are at risk of suffering the most seriously from this disease, to be hospitalized. But next to that, we'll probably go ahead with the vaccination of frontier workers at one-third and two-thirds. However, that is what we will decide on Thursday.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U11	And now one more question. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U12	Thank you, Mr President. Good Echo! I only have one simple question: Where did you get here, flower?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U13	[[It's quiet.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U14	Okay. Indrek Saar registered the issue of the health crisis. I understand that if the Prime Minister does not stand up, he does not want to answer your question. That doesn't add up to the subject. So let's move on. The first question has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U15	Question two. Helle-Moonika Helme, member of the Riigikogu, asks for this, answers Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. The subject is civil control. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U16	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! At the meeting in our group, you said that you did not deal with demonstrations that lasted more than a week, and the police acted on their own, on the basis of a threat assessment prepared by them. The Minister of the Interior, Jaani, has assured us the same. We also know that one of the police mid-level leaders Valdo Põder has confirmed that the decision to use riot police, rapid response and bloodhounds was his decision. On top of that, Elmar Vaher has claimed that the Kapo estimates that there was a threat to constitutional order, but that the analysis is allegedly classified. This analysis has not been confirmed or refuted by Kapo. From the very point of view of the above, I have a question for you: do we have the police acting completely on their own and arbitrarily? In that case, we have no civil control over the police as a force structure. The lack of civil control, in turn, means that we have a constitutional crisis. What's your comment?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U17	Thank you. 92% of Estonian residents trust the Estonian police. I don't know whose interests it is that you constantly undermine the credibility of the police. You're using words with the same meaning to achieve, like, a very negative connotation. Bloodhounds! They're service dogs. But of course, you can do it, it's your style, and that's what you've been doing all along. Now, I haven't said I'm not aware of what the police are doing. I am given daily reviews, reports of what the police do, how the police behave, what moves they make to curb demonstrations, and what threat assessments are. Of course, that information will be provided. But the scope and bases of police action are laid down in the law. First of all, in the Constitution, but also in the Police and Border Guard Act and the Law of Law Enforcement. The Police and Border Guard Board is a government agency in the area of Homeland Administration, which you probably know very well. The Office shall be accountable to the Minister in his field and shall direct and coordinate the activities of the Office. So the police base their decisions on the threat assessments they make. When we look at last week's activities, the police acted very peacefully, explaining that the dispersal requirements must be met and why such restrictions have been imposed. However, there were also a lot of provocators who wanted this demonstration to get out of hand, who wanted to get videos to show how the police were going against their people. But the police are not against the Estonian people; the police are in favour of the Estonian people. 92% of Estonian people know and believe it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U18	Now for the first point of clarification, Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U19	Thank you. We have never directed our questions, let's say, towards the real police. We have said that those who gave this order have basically undermined this credibility, 92 or even more percent, which has so far characterised the support of the Estonian police. But I will continue with the events that have shocked Estonia as a whole. At a perfectly peaceful demonstration on Sunday, for which all people had a constitutional right, in fact, people were transported to the police bus's procedures for completely wanted reasons and for nothing. No one was raving there. Nobody burned cars, no shops, no cafes, no ruins on city property. No threat assessment has so far confirmed the reason why such a number of police forces were sent out that day fully equipped with weapons and dogs. But they're working on finding out anyway. The same Sunday demonstration was attended by the top musician and the cellist, Silvia Ilves, the mother of four children, who also had the constitutional right to be there and who, despite being completely disproportionate to the police, from among the special forces who had come there to scare the people, grabbed the cello and played the Estonian anthem under the cross of the War of Independence. He was faced with a wall of heavy police officers, who always pressured him to stop playing and come with him to the police bus. They were ready to confiscate his cello as a threat to national security. And when the police finally pulled back on an order, Silvia Ilves just started crying about the big nervous breakdown and release. All of this was seen by his little son. As a woman, and as the mother of a little son, do you approve of the demonstration of power against Silvia Ilves? And do you support the repression initiated against Silvia Ilves by the cultural community and the employer?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U20	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U21	Thank you. From your description, it's like you're standing next door. I didn't. Were you standing next door? You're nodding for standing next to me. In short, Helle-Moonika Helme was standing next to it, Kaja Kallas was not standing next to it. I wasn't standing there, so I can't confirm or contradict the description you've just presented, claiming it all happened. If someone has been harmed, they can appeal to law enforcement authorities to resolve these cases in accordance with the law. And if their powers are exceeded, these people will be punished. For that we have laws, we live in the rule of law. So if there's anything, we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U22	A procedural question. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U23	I would say that we have an e-state, and our technology allows us to get involved without being there. There were dozens of people who filmed it all, and it's all publicly available and visible what actually happened there. You could have looked at it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U24	Thank you. And now please ask for an additional question, Siim Pohlak.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U25	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! I will continue on this subject, which I have also asked you on previous Wednesdays. I'm asking again about the situation at the border. What kind of corona checks are applied at border crossing points? How and how closely will the quarantine of arrivals in Estonia be monitored? Last week, news came through the media about the person who brought the South African Republic strain to Estonia and spread it around the country. Vaccines have also been reported not to protect against several more exotic strains. The health authority says that the proportion of cases brought from abroad has started to grow, with one in three cases brought from abroad coming from Egypt. I repeat my point: if we have severe restrictions in Estonia, if your government wants to take control of the situation, to act to ensure that summer is unrestricted, then it is completely incomprehensible how they are allowed to go to Turkey, Egypt and elsewhere for thousands of vacations. My question is: how do you think such untargeted leadership can solve the corona crisis in Estonia at all, and what do you intend to do about it? Have you discussed these new strains with the scientific council?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U26	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U27	Thank you. A lot of questions. First of all, I stress again: the Republic of Estonia must let the people who live in Estonia go home. In other words, when the people of Estonia go on a trip, they must be able to return home. If we now look at the versus local cases introduced in the balance sheet, 2904 cases last week were local and 111 cases were introduced. You are absolutely right that there were 45 cases from Egypt, and it is also right that 3.7% of all cases have been brought in. Of course, we are monitoring the spread of the South African strain and we are constantly asking the scientific council about it, including the sequencing. The samples have been sequenced, and we are now seeing 45 out of 4288 samples with a South African strain. The cases identified last week, these seven cases, were all local cases, only one of them had been introduced. Your question also concerned how it will be ensured that the person who violated the isolation obligation will be punished. We spoke in the government office that this supervision should be increased. Those people who come back must abide by the isolation obligation. Perhaps interesting information is that while over 30,000 people travelled during the last school break, which was in February, 5700 people were travelling during this spring break. People have also realized that travel is not reasonable. In this case, the Health Board and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have also recommended that you do not go to other countries, especially countries where we do not really know how the infection is spreading. They do not run enough tests and the numbers they disclose may be small, but may not reflect the whole situation. Also, the medical system in other countries is not always at the level we are used to in Estonia, where diseases are better handled.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U28	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U29	Let's move on to question three. It has been submitted by a member of the Riigikogu Helir-Valdor Seeder, according to Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. The issue is crisis management. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U30	Thank you. Prime Minister! My question really concerns the management of the crisis. The Government has submitted to the Riigikogu the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases, which has brought pizzas to the streets and police around the Riigikogu and has created a great controversy and confrontation. The members of your government and the representatives of the coalition Riigikogu have actively defended the proposals of this bill to grant special powers to the authorities on a permanent basis, to change the current law permanently. In the course of the proceedings of the Riigikogu, I think we are now essentially coming to the proposal of the Fatherland that these special powers apply only in emergency and emergency situations. In my opinion, this emergency issue, too, still needs to be unraveled, only an emergency situation would suffice. But we're getting more or less to this result, and the government's proposal to change the law in a very basic way. Please tell me whether the government will withdraw this draft or whether it will accept these very fundamental and substantial changes, that such powers will not be permanently granted to the authorities. And will you continue to think differently than the end result now achieved in the Riigikogu, you will stick to yourself, and the government still believes that such powers are needed permanently in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U31	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U32	Thank you. The government has never had the aim of using the Health and Police Department in other cases where the prevention and control of communicable diseases is required in an emergency or emergency. There was no other point. If the EKRE and probably also the wish of the Fatherland, your mutual desire is to add these two words to it, then this does not change the principle of this amendment. This is exactly what the government has been thinking: if we have an emergency situation, if we have an emergency situation and we need to check whether restrictions are being complied with, then the police must have the right to deal with these matters themselves, not only in cooperation with the Health Board. This bureaucratic chain would be shorter. That's exactly the goal. Adding one word that makes you happy doesn't change the big picture. And if we can all agree to this, I think it's only positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U33	Now the first point to be clarified. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U34	Thank you. I don't understand why such a big argument. Why did you hesitate so long to put these short improvements into law? You presented the amendments that would apply permanently in the Estonian Code. The mandate would be permanent. We had weeks to do here in the Riigikogu to change it, and now you say that is what we have wanted. Well, that's good! I believe that not only are we happy, but you too are happy about the outcome. But my second question is about the Emergency Act, which also deals with the management of the crisis and in which there are quite important transfers of powers from different authorities to the Prime Minister and the Government and the State Chancellery. It is precisely the powers of crisis management and even certain tasks of legislative coordination that are being taken away from the administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Justice. They will all be gathered in the State Chancellery. Today, the State Chancellery is already larger than any Ministry. Does this also mean duplication of competences? And when powers are removed, is it necessary to remove authorized people? Why this relocation at the height of the crisis? Is it not reasonable that we do not change these governance schemes at the height of the crisis, but we come back to this issue after the crisis and we calmly think through what needs to be changed in Estonia and what does not? Now there is confusion in Parliament, there is confusion in society, but at the height of the crisis, we are urgently reorganizing the management of the crisis. It doesn't make sense to me. How about you?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U35	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U36	Thank you. The readiness of ministries, authorities, local authorities to deal with crises is, in fact, very uneven. This was demonstrated by the emergency situation in spring. It was necessary to put in place an emergency situation precisely so that the management of the crisis could be consolidated. Currently, the management of the crisis is under the Ministry of the Interior, there is the Crisis Committee, the Crisis Committee of the Government of the Republic. But it doesn't have enough political weight or leadership instruments to take any kind of decision. This understanding has been true for years, and in 2018 the National Audit Office also drew attention to this. I have at hand the recommendation of the National Audit Office to the Secretary of State: "In working with the Minister of Defence and the Minister of the Interior, consider whether to combine two processes: analysing the risks to internal security of emergencies under the Emergency Act and assessing the risks to internal security under the National Defence Act and the Security Authorities Act. In addition, the possibility of combining the management of the preparation for internal security emergencies and the broad-based defence process with the task of coordinating the whole process at the State Chancellery must be analysed. The Recommendation will help reduce the risk that the implementation of risk mitigation measures will be overlooked in the day-to-day activities of institutions." This is the recommendation of the National Audit Office in 2018. Since 2018, we have experienced the corona crisis and the resulting problems that have been in the management of the crisis, and consequently there are proposals to clarify this governance arrangement. Understandably, the highlight of the current crisis will be over by the time these changes are adopted, but in every crisis we need to prepare for the next crisis, and I think this is also a lesson that comes with the spring.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U37	And now one more question. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U38	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! What prompted me to ask is that for a long time, including today's Question Time, there has been talk about the fact that the current government does not know how to deal with things, how to impose restrictions, how to relax restrictions, how to vaccinate, how to design strategies and how to introduce them, how to do white books, how to do nothing. The previous government, like, did everything great. At the same time, member of the previous government, Martin Helme, said on 7 February on TV3 "Seven News" of the week, which is known to be one of the best, if not the best, political debate programme format in Estonia, that the previous government did not actually have a vaccination strategy. The pig plague strategy was taken, changed its name and lupsti! the new strategy was ready, wiped out the old dust. In itself, however, this strategy to combat swine fever provided that the infected pigs were essentially eradicated. I hope Martin Helme was a little overdramatic, but I can't be sure what was or wasn't there. You've been prime minister for three months soon. Maybe you've had a chance to take a look at the strategies, plans, things you've done, things you haven't done before. How do you comment on Martin Helme's claim that the previous government lacked a vaccination strategy?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U39	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U40	Thank you. I like Henry Ford saying, "Don't look for guilty people, look for solutions." We are now in the middle of the vaccination process and we want to get 70% of the population vaccinated. That's where we're short on vaccines. I am therefore delighted that yesterday, the Minister of Health and Labour, Tanel Kiik, in the Cabinet, presented the vaccination plan until June. And, of course, we have to move on from there. There must be clear control chains, clear guidelines also on how we are moving forward with vaccination. Of course, I would have liked it to have been dealt with earlier, and it should not have been dealt with in the middle of the crisis. But I think from here we can only go better.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U41	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U42	Let's move on to question four. It has been submitted by Jevgeni Ossinovski, member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, member of the Government of the Republic. The subject is the corona crisis. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! The subject of my question does not surprise you. This concerns the inclusion of older people in the vaccine. For a month I have been talking about the fact that the coverage of 80+ people in Estonia is incredibly small. This means a greater burden on us in terms of hospital patient care, and as a result, dozens of people have died and will continue to die. These deaths would be vaccine-avoidable, but the risk of mortality and hospitalisation is increasing exponentially in this age group. A few weeks ago, we discussed this issue with you in this Chamber. And indeed, the government seemed to be better aware of this issue and to have moved forward with it in a positive way. Today, indeed, coverage in this age group has also increased compared to a few weeks ago, but we are still the poorest in the European Union: just over 50% we have coverage in this age group. A large number of countries have already reached over 90% a long time ago. I removed last week's vaccinations from the Health Board statistics, then the front line was stopped and it was said that now we are going to deal seriously with older people and I looked at who had the first doses. Only 8% of them have actually gone to the 80+ age group. The majority of the vaccine doses went to younger people last week. That's why I don't know how to ask. What's going on? That is perhaps the simplest question to put. But if you expand a little, what steps has the government taken to increase the coverage of older people? And what else do you need to do? How has it happened that we're following like this and somehow the situation is getting very much better, if at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U44	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U45	Thank you. You are only talking about people aged 80+, but if we look at who needs hospital care when they get this disease, 25.1% of the 70-79-year-olds need hospital care and 11.4% of the 60-69-year-olds need hospital care, while 2.26% of the 70-year-olds need intensive care. In the case of over 80 years of age, this percentage is actually lower: 1.42. Indeed, the proportion of deaths is much higher among those over 80, 10%, while for those over 70, it is 4.37. We had a plan last week to use 2400 doses of Janssen Pharmaceutica vaccine. It is known to be a single-dose or single-injection vaccine and is well suited for older people, i.e. those aged 80+, who live at home. These are people who can't come out of their homes, and then they go to them. Unfortunately, the use of this vaccine was stopped, which means we couldn't use it either. Currently 54.11% of those over 80 years of age have been vaccinated, while 60% of those over 70 years of age have already been vaccinated. Like I said, they're in a very high-risk group, too. We have very different proportions of different ages in family doctors' lists across Estonia. And different family doctors have different concerns about how to reach older ones. In this sense, stopping Janssen's vaccine was a very bad thing, one part of our strategy stopped. But we are also moving forward with the vaccination of older people. If we look at it, our level of over 70 years of age is roughly the same as in other countries, such as Denmark and Lithuania. It is precisely because, as I said, the risk of this age group is also very high.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U46	And now, please specify the question, Evgeni Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U47	Thank you. Of last week's first doses to over 70-year-olds, if you want to talk about the second age group, it was still only a third. Two thirds of the first doses went to those under 70 years of age, where the risk of hospitalisation significantly decreases. It is true that, without doubt, stopping using Janssen is a concern. Hopefully, after last night's decision by the European Medicines Agency, it will recover because, in fact, one indicator that we do not generally follow is that we still have a lower coverage of the 90+ age group than the 80+ age group. Last time I looked at it, it was less than 40% even. The question is probably that these people must be reached, not assumed that they would somehow come to the vaccination site. Last Monday, the Minister of Health said in the Special Committee on State Budget Control that 80% of the 80-year-olds will be covered by the first week of May. Well, it's 54% now. The government has said, I think you have said that by the end of next week there is a plan to reach 70%. Indeed, there are different reasons for having a family doctor who is ill, where he is on vacation and where no one was caught and whatever these reasons are. Of course, since there are many family doctors, there are a lot of logistical questions. But the fact is that high coverage across Estonia is our common goal, not that of a specific family doctor. Consequently, I have this question. Any explanation why we have failed is, of course, possible to find and present them here for hours, but what practically and actually does the government intend to do differently, more actively, better, so that we actually reach 80% coverage in the next two weeks?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U48	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U49	Thank you. The main reason why vaccination has not increased in all age groups is that we have few vaccines. Let me just remind you that the supplies of AstraZeneca, which we now use in over 60s, have been very hectic. For example, it had to be more than 10,000 doses after the week of April 15, and 4800 doses. This week there was supposed to be 17805 doses, much less. This includes other doses, which are now coming to a close. However, since we wanted to give as many people as possible this cover, we all set the doses that came in for the first injections, hoping that the delivery schedules would be kept and that the vaccine would be enough. But unfortunately, these delivery schedules have not been kept, which means that we need 20,000 doses of other doses now, but we don't actually have 20,000 doses and we need to set aside some right now. That's why the pace is slowing down. That's clear. What, then, have we done to catch older ones, and what will we do next? We have been communicating with local authorities so that social workers can find these people. They have the best connection with people, and they know how to make vaccinations. The counties and municipalities, however, are different and communication with the people is very different. Certainly in smaller counties we have a very large coverage. In three counties the coverage of the 80+ age group is more than 70% and in five counties the coverage of the 70-79 age group is also more than 70%. In four counties the coverage of the 80+ age group is over 65%. These are smaller counties where it's easier to reach people. But all the suggestions you have, all the criticism I take with me. If you have proposals on how to organise it better, we will certainly be open to them. After all, the aim is to achieve the necessary coverage more quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U50	And now one more question, Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U51	Thank you. I am taking this excellent opportunity to be able to clarify once again the discussion that we had with each other. First, taverns versus children's schooling. This dilemma has been introduced by the scientific council itself. And unfortunately, I tend to think that the outdoor terrace of the tavern still remains a tavern, it's no different recreation area. When the outdoor terrace of the tavern is opened, the part of the tavern located in a different room will be opened. Basically, it doesn't matter, we understand. But from a health point of view, whether they're indoors or outdoors, there's a proven difference. But I come to what the head of the scientific council has said. I'm quoting today's Postman. Irja Lutzar was frustrated that although the primary classes could return to the schoolhouse, the opening of shops and entertainment facilities would delay the entrance of the older classes into the classroom. "If the primary classes go now on May 3, when do the other classes go?" asked Lutsar. That's what I'm asking. What was your considered choice when the scientific council recommended first sending younger children to school, then looking at what happens, and then starting to ease other restrictions, thinking in particular that older classes would also get to school as soon as possible. Why was your choice to go to school, as you said, from the original version of the science council a week later, to have the children of the primary schools later in school, but at the same time to make quick reliefs for shops and entertainment centers, as the head of the scientific council says?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U52	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U53	Thank you. The Head of the Scientific Advisory Board was also present at the discussions of the Cabinet. He was able to comment and to express his views on these proposals. The advice of the Scientific Advisory Board was to send children to school as early as April 26. But when we look at the graphs, we look at other data, every time after the break, there's been an increase in infection. And since people go on school holidays, people also travel around Estonia, we, having learned from our previous experience, decided that we would not immediately send children to school. There should be a buffer. Primary school kids go to school on May 3. At the same time, we are constantly monitoring the signs of infection, and gradually we can allow children to attend school at other age levels as well. If the infection rates allow, then the last weeks of school are still available and can be done gradually. But, yes, all our decisions are still linked to the fact that outdoor activities, even in the opinion of the Scientific Advisory Panel, do not increase infection. All restrictions must be strictly necessary to prevent the spread of an infectious disease. If you go on the streets of Tallinn, there are just counters in front of the restaurants, where people stand the same, they are exposed anyway. The question is that we are not allowing restaurants to be opened right now, we are not allowing spas and entertainment centres to be opened right now for the very reasons that you have brought out and which the scientific council has also told us. That's exactly what we've been doing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U54	Thank you, I will finish addressing this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U55	Let us move on to question five. It is presented by the member of the Riigikogu Merry Aart, corresponding to the member of the government Minister Urmas Kruuse. The subject is the production of food waste and losses in primary production. Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U56	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, I read the sector review from 2020 and I am really glad that farmers have adapted to the crisis and have managed successfully in general. However, there are always losses in agriculture and primary production, whether from weather conditions or from processing or harvesting. This issue has never been discussed very long or very thoroughly, and here is my question. Could you open this up, please? What is the level of food losses in primary production and have these losses been taken into account when defining the damage associated with the crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U57	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U58	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable good questioner! Indeed, a platform for food waste and food losses has been set up at EU level in 2015, bringing together across Member States the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals to halve retail and consumer food waste per capita by 2030. For the first time in Estonia, this field has been studied at intermediate stages in 2016-2020. This study, as I mentioned, was carried out at intermediate stages, and it was agreed in this study that unprocessed or processed foods intended initially for human consumption should be considered as food losses. But the point of the study was to find out why one or the other food wouldn't make it to the table. In agricultural production, it can be said that the extent of the loss of food actually depends on the type of production and the cause of the loss. There's no such common, constant cause of loss. These losses range from 1 to 46%. For example, when we are talking about 2020 last year, food losses in dairy production, wheat, strawberry and potato production amounted to 115000 tonnes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U59	And now the point to be clarified. Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U60	Thank you. It's difficult even to ask. The answer was a little general, but thank you for that. I come once to a very passionate subject: strawberry growing last year. It's not a big sector, and I know the situation. But when I read in this sector's review that strawberry yield was 10% and yield was 1.2% lower than last year's harvest and due to weather conditions the loss of harvest was high. And then I'm going to look at the numbers of food losses in a survey at the University of Earth, which says that out of all the weather and other losses, this loss is about 25%, let's say 23.28%. My question is: how much of this 10% loss of the vegetable crop could it be a loss of food?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U61	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U62	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable questioner! The interim report of this same study in 2020 says that the relative loss of food in strawberry farming was on average 46.1%. Researchers at the University of Life Sciences experimented and appreciated how much of the harvest was not harvested and how much the economic damage was. And it was estimated to be 6 or nearly 7 million. It is also true that, if we are talking about agriculture and the gardening sector in particular, it is certainly also a question of weather conditions. This, too, can be a very big influence on the extent to which it is lost. But here it has to be said that when you talk specifically about the strawberry sector, its main problem last year was that the ripening period was very short, but the workforce was not available. And then the so-called weather conditions were added. It actually caused a clearly higher-than-average loss.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U63	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U64	Let's move on to question six. This is asked by Mikhail Lotman, answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. The subject is the international situation. Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U65	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! I'm not going to tell you what the international situation is, you know that. You know how many troops and what kind of troops have been concentrated on the Ukrainian border. You know how much progress has been made in Putin's plan to substantially annex Belarus. You also know how GRU murderers do their actions in the countries of the European Union and, of course, in Russia. You know what processes are in Russia and how the opposition is treated there. You know about the explosion of the armory in the Czech Republic and the political crisis that sent out 18 Russian diplomats, and Russia sent out 20 Czech diplomats. The Czech Republic requested solidarity from other European Union countries to send out Russian diplomats. You know what sanctions the United States is planning against Russia. You know about the discussion that is currently taking place in the European Parliament and in the ENPA. Against this background, another proposal by our Foreign Minister to move forward quickly with the border agreement came out of the blue. When you were just a candidate for Prime Minister, you assured me that my fears about this contract with Jedinaya Rossija were completely inappropriate for you to run foreign policy. I would like to ask whether this is really the Estonian foreign policy line.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U66	Thank you. All the developments you have pointed out are of great concern. Especially with regard to Ukraine, as Ukraine has always been very close to the Estonians. I, too, have worked very closely with Ukraine all the time. When I was in the European Parliament, I was vice-president of the Ukrainian delegation, I went there all the time. And we're working with Ukraine. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has just visited Kiev with other Baltic Foreign Ministers. It's a very strong signal. I, too, have a visit to Ukraine. The Foreign Minister also had a phone call with Russian Foreign Minister Lavrov on Ukraine. Similarly, there is action in our toolbox in the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe and in the European Union, where we constantly raise these issues. With the Czechs, we have expressed our full solidarity, we are working with allies on these issues. These are all very worrying developments and we can respond to these things together with our allies. Now your question concerning the border agreement. I think all these crises show that we need, precisely, a border agreement with a neighbour like ours. When I was working in the European Parliament, I saw that it was very easy to confuse in the information war. And we don't need a mess where our line goes. It is a technical document and we need it more than in Russia. Therefore, I think it is positive that over the long years, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has been in contact with the Foreign Minister of the neighbour and has been groping about whether it is possible to move forward with these processes. I think that what is happening in the world affects us very clearly and directly. But yes, we need this border agreement more than it needs in Russia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U67	And now for a more specific question, Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U68	Thank you. Your answer, Prime Minister, makes me unconscious. The notion that the border agreement in any way protects is misleading. Of course, it is good to have a border agreement. And in the long run, I'm sure we're all interested in it. However, the border agreement did not protect Georgia in 2008; the border agreement did not protect Ukraine at the time of the abolition of Crimea. Is our government really going the way that politicians such as Matteo Salvini and Viktor Orbán suggested that we work and develop relations with Russia instead of imposing these destructive sanctions? As for our Foreign Minister's speech with Lavrov, I also read about the Russian reaction to it. It was commended that the Foreign Minister's tone was cordial, but it was claimed: it was because his message was completely empty. Well, I don't even know how to comment on that. I don't know, it all makes me very sad. Estonia was always the first speaker on Russian policy in the European Union, but not at the end. When you say we have to look at what our partners are doing first, which partners? Germany and France? What are they doing? They're escalating.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U69	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U70	Thank you. Firstly, on the contrary, we have been very active on the issue of Russia and Ukraine. We have also said in the Navalny case that those who are responsible must be subject to sanctions, as is the case with the Czech Republic. But the fact that we are negotiating with our allies is, in my opinion, elementary. Now I come to what you asked for. You're saying the border treaty won't protect itself. Of course, the border agreement itself does not protect. But what did I mean by the comment that a border treaty could be used in the information war? In the European Parliament, I saw these debates all the time. The example of Ukraine and Georgia is not relevant because they are not NATO members. Let's say Russia is coming at us. We would like to say that Article 5 will be launched, NATO allies, come and protect us because our borders have been violated and our constitutional order is being threatened. What, then, will be done? There's an information war about where you're going with the border. And if we do not have this technical document, it will be possible to confuse the political groups of our allies, because there is no way of knowing where the border is going, whether or not they have crossed the border, whether or not Article 5 can be used. That's the point. Of course, we must have proper protection with our allies, as well as our independent defence capabilities. It all has to be. However, what I want to say is that the border agreement and legal clarity on this issue are necessary precisely so that we do not encounter any confusion in situations of danger such as the one in Ukraine and Georgia, but that there is absolute clarity that yes, we need help, yes, Article 5 must be applied.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U71	And now for an additional question. Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U72	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! I'm going to drop here for a moment, however, on the most important subject, the Corona virus issue once again. I'm going back to the moment you answered my last question. I asked the substantive question about the corona check at the border. Unfortunately, you responded with demagogy, as if I wanted to prevent the Estonian people from returning home. It wasn't like that. You then read a number of figures that support your limp attitude towards what is happening at the border crossing points. Prime Minister, with all due respect: if you want to be a Head of State, the question of substance could still be answered by the competent leader, in substance, rather than using a demagogue. And most importantly, if you want to be a Head of State, you must be able to shift the focus from self-righteousness and reaction to events to proactive action. If dark clouds emerge on the horizon, which are undoubtedly new vaccine-resistant strains of the virus, preventive measures must be taken, as is the control at the border. You might think it's some kind of EKRE jaur. No, it's not! This is, in my opinion, one of the most important questions of your Prime Minister's time, how Estonia can deal with coronavirism and when we can take down domestic restrictions. This is what all of Estonia is looking forward to. So, once again, what kind of corona border checks are being carried out or what new measures are planned to be implemented in the near future? I apologize for my sharp tone, but I'm waiting for an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U73	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U74	Thank you. We are taking preventive measures. First, the first thing: we finished the Baltic bubble, which allowed us to cross the border without the isolation requirement. We have an isolation requirement at the border crossing or an opportunity to carry out two tests that release the isolation requirement. I mean, you release when the test results are negative. What else have we done? The Health Board has issued an order requiring health declarations to be completed before entering the country. These must be completed on board the aeroplane. Airlines shouldn't pick up people without it, or at least in IATA regulations, it's in my knowledge. What else have we done? We have increased checks at the airport so that these health declarations are completed so that we have this information. People can do tests. And these isolation requirements need to be further verified. I would also like to point out that most scheduled flights are subject to arrangements that, without a negative test, no passengers are allowed on board. Of course, our concern is the same, so that new strains are not introduced, and we will do everything we can under the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U75	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U76	Let's move on to question seven. It has been submitted by a member of the Riigikogu, Heljo Pikhof, and is answered by the Minister of the Interior, Kristian Jaani, a member of the Government. The subject is traffic supervision. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U77	Thank you. Honourable Minister of the Interior! There are currently many vehicles driving on Estonian highways that do not have a soot filter. The filter is removed so that it does not have to pay for cleaning the filter or buy a new one after some time. Without a soot filter, a motor vehicle emits large amounts of soot particles from the combustion of fuel, contaminating the environment and being harmful to our health. If we tap into Google's search engine "the soot filter' away," we will find dozens of Estonian car repair workshops that engage in this illegal activity, offering to publicly remove the soot filter. The traffic law provides for a penalty for driving a vehicle without a tahma-filter. My question is why nothing has been done to put an end to this illegal activity. And what is the ability of police officers in charge of traffic surveillance to detect these violations in the first place?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U78	Kristian Jaani, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U79	Thank you for your question, a very good question. And I am very pleased that this question has been put today. Road safety and traffic surveillance have been a very important topic for me for a long time. And when we talk about someone manipulating a car, on the one hand, definitely pollutes the air, creating environmental risks, then on the other hand, the incompetent manipulation of a car is also a direct risk to road safety. If we are talking at all about traffic security in this context, when we are talking about analogous cases where either an entrepreneur or a self-proclaimed car dealer has gone into changing the technical parameters of a car, one of them is definitely removing the soot filter, but the most widespread such manipulation has been that the reading of a speedometer is being reduced, then different public authorities have worked very well against it over the years. In previous years, I have been involved in this myself. But the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, the Police and Border Guard Board, the Transport Board and the current Estonian Association of Car Entrepreneurs have worked very well to control cars, for example, which are brought to Estonia when used. To determine whether these cars have been manipulated or not. So cooperation between the various authorities is actually active in the same problem that you referred to. When we talk specifically about soot filters, it is difficult to identify the traffic police during the so-called normal day-to-day traffic surveillance. This requires special equipment, and the police are not equipped for everyday use. The police will detect a possible violation if the car smokes too much. And in that case, the police officer can direct the car to an emergency inspection. When we talk about specific numbers, last year alone, the police led 173 cars to an emergency inspection. A car was spotted on the street, and there was a suspicion that it was technically okay. Thus, for one year 173 cars were transferred to an emergency technical inspection. These were not all cars where smoking was linked to a soot filter, and the mistakes of the heating system were also examples. There were six cars where it was a question of a soot filter. The main task of administrative supervision in this regard is in itself the Transport Department, but the police also have an important focus on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U80	And now the point to be clarified. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U81	In fact, I also want an answer to what you do to those who publicly advertise this illegal activity. Are you planning on doing something? I also give examples of life itself. A good friend of mine bought a new vehicle that had passed a roadworthiness test and traveled on a family trip to Germany, but there the car was stopped during random checks and on-board diagnostics was performed. Turns out the car doesn't have a soot filter. The vehicle was removed from traffic, the person had to pay a fine and was asked to order a trailer to get rid of the car, because it is forbidden to drive such an environmentally polluting car. And now my question is: who should pay the fine to this bona fide buyer who has entrusted the Estonian technologist? And I would also like to ask the answer to my previous question: what are you going to do with those who advertise illegal activities?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U82	Kristian Jaani, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U83	Thank you. This example of Germany, I come back to it once again, that the Estonian police do not have such devices to carry out diagnostics on the spot. But we're doing joint raids with the Transport Department to find out that the soot filter has been removed. The second option is that the police have very good cooperation with inspection posts. So if there's a checkpoint somewhere nearby, the police can go to the inspection station with this car, and there's an opportunity to do this quick on the spot. When you come back to the first question, the police, together with the Transport Department, will carry out random checks on those operators who advertise that it is possible to remove the soot filter. I think it will certainly be done in the future. It is difficult for me to comment on a specific case at the moment, because I do not know all the facts. In criminal proceedings, it must be assessed whether the owner has the necessary evidence and whether the case can be dealt with. But I'm sure that's a good thing, and I promise I'll take this theme set with me from here today.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U84	And now one more question, Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U85	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! I'd also like to talk about this influence and this soot roll-up. Last Tuesday in the press, you said that Nets, this 347 SE, doesn't contain anything that the opposition is talking about. And on Wednesday, we were all able to read the great happy news that the government and the EKRE have actually reached an agreement on those issues that, let's say, were problematic. My question is: how is it possible to agree at all on a matter that is not contained in itself? Was your performance on Tuesday, the day before it was agreed, simply influencing information or turning the soot up?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U86	Thank you for your question. There was no soot roll-up. When we talk about the Nets draft in the supervisory view, there has been no point since the beginning that it would somehow become a 'permanent opportunity' or a task for the law enforcement body, in this case the Police and Border Guard Board. In fact, it was foreseen that this involvement would be possible during an emergency. On the other hand, this engagement process must have been carried out before: The Health Board must ask for help and the Police and Border Guard Board must agree to it. And it must always be assessed by the Police and Border Guard Board as to what its options are and whether it is reasonable to go to the aid of a particular situation. But once again, the parliamentary debate on these points was debated and discussed among themselves, I think it is positive. Once again, I am very pleased that we can move forward with these legislative changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U87	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U88	Let's move on to question eight. It is presented by Mart Helme, member of the Riigikogu, and corresponds to the Minister of the Interior Kristian Jaani, member of the Government. The subject is the threat to constitutional order. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U89	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. A week ago, we had a meeting with you in the group, and you promised that you would forward us the documents prepared to give us a threat assessment of the demonstrations that took place in different places in Tallinn in the last few weeks. We are eagerly waiting for you to forward these documents to us. Since you have not communicated them to us, but we have also had other appointments in the meantime, for example, this morning a meeting was held with the Director-General of the PBA, Elmar Vaher, but there have been other appointments, I would still like to clarify who specifically provided, when and to whom a threat assessment was made, which claimed that there was a threat to constitutional order in Estonia in relation to these demonstrations. Specifically: who? Was the Police and Border Guard Board, the Defence Police, the Health Board, the State Chancellery, or anyone else's third, fourth, fifth, sixth, who presented such a threat assessment? And what levels did this threat assessment go through in government or ministries? And who, therefore, made the decision that led to an excessive police response?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U90	Thank you for your question. First of all, meeting you last week was very pleasant, there were very interesting questions, and I very much hope that with my answers things would become clearer. I really took this question with you and specifically told you that I would take it to the relevant authorities and they would have to look at the extent to which different risk assessments could be shown. When we are talking about risk assessments, we are talking, above all, about the threat assessment given by the Health Board on the basis of the current health emergency. This is a risk forecast which has also been requested by the Police and Border Guard Board for supervision on the basis of a request from the Agency. When we talk about what the Police and Border Guard Board has done on the streets, this particular health department's threat forecast said that the increased risk is in case there are more than ten people together outside and they are not scattered there. On this basis, the Police and Border Guard Board chose its tactics: it explained to people, together with the Health Board, how people should keep distance between themselves so that there is no risk of people getting infected. At this point in fact, there was a risk of infection in Tallinn and elsewhere in Harjumaa and is still very high compared to other Estonia. If we are talking about a threat to constitutional order, then such threat assessments will be made by the Defence Police Department as one of the security authorities. These threat assessments are protected by law, they're secret, and I can't comment on them here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U91	More questions... Specific question, Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U92	Thank you. Sorry I didn't push the button faster, I listened so carefully. Well, you can't get behind that classification. Personally, I have the highest secret clearance. We have several rooms in the Riigikogu where such documents can be accessed. So that's not an argument. Please get these documents, we'll set up an appointment and the people who will examine them in their respective premises, but we definitely want to get to know these documents. Now, someone's lying. I don't know exactly who it is, but someone's lying. We have received information from the Defence Police that their threat assessment has not said that there is a threat to constitutional order. And if you're talking about two plus two and ten people gathering here, these things can't be a threat to constitutional order. However, a threat to constitutional order can be that the highest political leadership in the country is not sufficiently informed of the facts and has not given specific consent, guidance and approval to police action. This is a serious problem because it talks about the lack of civil control over the activities of power structures. There is also a threat to constitutional order when the police give illegal orders to demonstrators. If the police essentially takes people without having a paragraph, takes a police bus, undresss them, confiscates their musical instruments or also noise-creating devices ♪ it is the issuing of illegal orders, and it is a threat to constitutional order. How do you comment that people were detained in this way and that their personal property was temporarily confiscated?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U93	Kristian Jaani, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U94	Thank you for your question. Despite the fact that the security authorities' threat assessments are classified and that indeed the threat assessments are prepared by the authorities and persons who can get to know them, the role of the PB is to ensure public order. And in this case, however, the fact remains that we still have a health emergency and the Health Board has asked the Police and Border Guard Board to help. Now, there are definitely two aspects of the preventive approach. If there are demonstrations, then the task of the police is certainly to be proactive. The primary task is to protect those people who participate in the demonstration so that their 'freedom of assembly' is guaranteed, freedom of expression guaranteed. This is in itself the main task. Also, of course, that health is protected. When we talk about whether something illegal has been committed to someone, I, as the Prime Minister did before, call on people that, if someone has been harmed, or if any illegal means have been used against someone, surely an opportunity to turn to something. There are many of these possibilities. First, you can turn to the police's internal control, you can contact the prosecutor's office, even to me, the Ministry of the Interior, who also has a supervisory function. So, anyway, I call on you, if there have been such cases, to go somewhere, and police internal control must assess these cases.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U95	And now one more question. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U96	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! I mean, a week ago, you were in the hall, the Prime Minister was in the hall, and we asked who, where, what. And then we were told that no one else knew, but everyone goes straight back looking for answers. They were looking for those answers, but they didn't really have to. After all, we learn from the newspapers what these threat assessments and all the other assessments are. You will probably agree that the press is being carried out today with more of a moment's motive and maybe the facts are not being very well controlled. But if any statement has gone to the press, he's gonna live his own life there. My question is that you will always have the opportunity to send a memo to the group for official use. That, good group, this is a sensitive subject, here are these and these things, in this case we sent you such a memo and the police must act accordingly and in this case. My question is that as ambassadors, we are the last hand in this information circle. If we ask here, we don't get any answers, we have to read them in the paper. In my opinion, it would still be reasonable to communicate with the political groups on sensitive issues, to come here. But last week, when no one knew anything, it was complicated. But to Mart Helme, I say that, indeed, freedom of speech was protected. If anyone goes in there with something, if anyone wants to talk, it's a direct threat to freedom of expression. As a band singer, I often feel that the band plays too hard. That is the threat to freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U97	Kristian Jaani, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U98	Thank you for your question. I strongly support the idea that we really need to communicate with the political groups. I've done it, and I'm ready to come back anytime. But once again, when we come to the different threat assessments that security authorities have made, they decide who is in the circle of people who can get to know them. Of course, on the assumption that the respective rights have also been granted. And unfortunately, I still cannot comment on this issue here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U99	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U100	Let us move on to the next question. It has been submitted by Aivar Kokk, member of the Riigikogu, answers the Minister of Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse. The subject is excise duties. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U101	[[Remote connection]] You spoke about a number of business sectors. One of these is certainly agriculture and food production. Last year, there was a corona crisis, and the previous government decided to lower excise duty on special-marked diesel. Previously it was EUR 133 per 1000 litres, now it is EUR 100 per 1000 litres. We know that in Latvia, the excise duty rate on specially labelled diesel fuels is only EUR 50 per 1000 litres, and in the European Union a minimum excise duty of EUR 21 per 1000 litres is allowed. Thus, the excise duty rate for special-marked diesel is already rather high and, in the event of a crisis, it is not justified to increase it. How do you feel about that? During the RES discussions, will you raise this issue on the table in order to continue with a lower excise duty on 1 May next year or to reduce the current excise duty further?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U102	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U103	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honorable member of the Riigikogu! As we both know, the reduced rate of excise duty on special-purpose diesel for farmers is certainly important. And maybe that's what got very little attention in society. If we look at the year before the crisis, this concession amounted to about 30 million euros for the country, which is certainly not a small amount. You have, of course, rightly pointed out how much it is possible to reduce this rate. But if we look at this two-year period of agreed humiliation, then the current government is certainly not going to raise anything. This so-called increase, i.e. the return to its former level, has already been agreed in the previous government. But even if the excise duty goes back to its previous level, the advantage is still significant. And, in the light of the RES negotiations, if the Minister for Rural Affairs or the Ministry of Rural Affairs has raised this issue, we have been following the subject above all, and I, as Minister, too, so that farmers can continue to benefit from this preferential rate. We're not gonna hit that part anymore. In Estonia, the reduced excise rate for special-purpose diesel basically accounts for around 27% of the excise rate for conventional diesel. But one thing worries me. The representatives of the previous government said, and they also sounded to the public, that if this rate of excise duty were to be temporarily lowered, it would certainly lead to a reduction in fuel prices. But already this year, we have noticed that we actually have more expensive fuel in places than in Latvia. So there's a cloud of concern in that sense. I'm sure it is!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U104	Now for a more specific question, Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U105	Let me get this straight. [[The connection's breaking up.]] The Ministry of Rural Affairs has not decided or has not...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U106	Dear Aivar Chef! You can't be heard, I'm so sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U107	... excise duty of EUR 100...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U108	Dear Aivar Chef, you are not to be heard! Your voice is very intermittent. If you could just get out of this system for a second and come back again, I'll give you a question to recreate. The sound was so intermittent, it was impossible to understand. Let's go to an additional question right now. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U109	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! I am not the consumer of this diesel fuel and do not know how much its price affects the household. On the other hand, however, it can be said that thanks to this cut in excise duty, it was a miracle that the cars from Latvia and Lithuania started coming from Latvia and refueling fuel in Estonia, which means that we received more money. We know that the previous government was temporarily able to introduce this excise duty, and now it should go back to the level from which it was lowered. The current government actually has two options. One thing is that the accent stays that way and we don't make a smoother transition. Or the government will find that with a higher excise, maybe we'll collect more money. However, knowing that border trade will recover from this, it might still be a goal that there is no excise duty, if more is bought from Estonia, then more money will come to Estonia. Which way does the sum of the sum seem more correct to you: do you want to continue with the low excise duty?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U110	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U111	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable questioner! According to the information available to me, the excise duty on fuel was not paid into the budget of the Republic of Estonia. However, it is important to note here that when we talk about energy consumption in the agricultural sector, so-called 'intermediate consumption' costs are about 10%. And if indeed this excise duty on fuel goes back to its former level, it will have an impact on the company of around 0,1%. But I would like to remind you, honourable member of the Riigikogu, of one thing. I want to quote Aivar Kokka, former chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. On 6 April 2020, he said very clearly to the Riigikogu as well as to the entire Estonian people and farmers: this fall has been agreed for two years. And there was another additional clause: if the economy grows by at least 2%, it will quietly come to the end of the excise cut and will quietly increase the excise duty. I would like to remind you that the growth forecast for this year is 2.5% and for the following year 4.8%. But I stress over this: it is important that the country continues this policy, which generally concerns a reduced rate of excise duty, because it really has a greater impact on business than this temporary reduction in excise duty.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U112	Thank you. Let's try to reconnect. Aivar Chef, please, your point of clarification!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U113	It is always good to take one sentence out of a long text. In fact, there has always been an agreement to look at the rise or fall in excise duties in Latvia and Lithuania. And in this context, if the previous government had been, this year's RES debate would have discussed whether or not it would be possible to extend the retention of excise duties. At the moment, we know that the crisis is ongoing. The Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Trade has addressed both the Riigikogu and the Government with a request to extend the current excise duty. And this principle has always been, as I have said, that Latvia and Lithuania will be monitored and, in two years' time, what opportunities are there, whether the economy needs to be revived. And as of today, we can see that this is definitely a necessity.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U114	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U115	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honorable member of the Riigikogu, a good questioner! I am sure you and I share the view that the agricultural sector is important for our country and that the agricultural sector is also an important industry in the European Union. As a result, very long-term policies have also been agreed there. But I note that the same farmers who have approached you have actually said that the option that exists in Latvia, for example, is not suitable for them. There are agreed limits per hectare. This means that our farmers will use this advantage more rationally and freely, according to their specific needs, agro-technical techniques and weather conditions. Of course, I don't want to rip out any sentences from any context. I referred to the idea of a temporary reduction in excise duty for the two-year period agreed. But, as I said, actually, in so-called intermediate consumption, that means all the costs incurred in producing production, this increase represents an increase of 0.1% of expenditure. However, I would like to stress once again that it is important that we continue with this so-called 'basic downfall', because it really has a very big impact. The rate is still 27% of the rate of excise duty on conventional diesel. But it would be very nice if we had actually seen constantly lower prices than in Latvia. It was the expectation of the government at the time and of the entire sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U116	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U117	Let's move on to question 10. It has been submitted by a member of the Riigikogu Helmen Kütt, responding to Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. The subject is restrictions and possibilities for mitigating them. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U118	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I'm going to continue a little bit with the same question that the good fellow Indrek Saar started. This concerns vaccination. You have pointed out that, indeed, there is a great shortage of vaccines and that, if I remember correctly, there will be only 2400 doses instead of 50,000 doses of vaccines. This is indeed very worrying, also from the point of view of vaccination of the elderly. But my question primarily concerns those people who work at the front line in the sense that they cannot work at home. They're shoppers, they're factory workers. We know that the first day of illness will not be reimbursed by the State to them, and from the second day on, the cost will be borne by employers. This would certainly have been a measure that would have treated all operators equally and also enabled replacement workers to be found. When can the vaccine reach them? Very many store managers and supermarket managers are concerned. Today, food shops are open, and now that other shops are opened on 3 May, the workers there are at great risk. Their vaccination will remain, given their average age and seeing how the procurement is delayed, likely over a large summer. Has this been discussed in the government office, and when can a follow-up of vaccination reach them?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U119	Please, Kaja Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U120	Thank you. As you yourself rightly said, I have a schedule for the delivery of vaccines ahead of me, and next week, when it was supposed to be 50846 doses of AstraZeneca, there will be 2400. However, as I said, it is starting to come to the time of the other doses, which means that we need to keep this vaccine for these other doses. At the same time, it is the same concern that your group has raised: the vaccination of older people. With this, we also need to move forward in order to vaccinate older people, to remove them from this risk, so that they do not get sick and that its consequences are not tragic. That's what we're doing. Now, in a deficit situation, we have to decide who gets the vaccine first. We have a lot of applications, all of whom are front lines. I agree with you that these are all very important jobs. I'd like to tell everyone that you're important and that you can get that injection quickly. Unfortunately, as I said, the delivery schedule sets limits. At present, we have stopped the vaccination of frontier workers because of the directing of all vaccines to family doctors so that older people can receive the injection. We discussed the matter on Tuesday, and on Thursday we are going to discuss the vaccination of workers in the front line again: how to move forward with it in conditions where we hoped, by the end of April, that we would have enough vaccines, but in fact we do not have as much vaccine as we have taken into account. The time of the other doses will come, but the front line staff will wait exactly the same way. So on Thursday, we will discuss this issue again in the government office.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U121	And now for a more specific question, Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U122	Thank you very much for your answer. Indeed, this issue has been raised by our party, but this does not mean that it is a single issue. Simply older people's vaccination has been a recommendation from the Scientific Advisory Panel, because they are also the most risky of hospital overload and death rates are very high. As one family doctor rightly said: 20 older people have left my list, and none of them should have died if they had not been hit by the crown virus. My second question actually concerns the relaxation of restrictions. And as soon as I understand, there is no way to answer everything, I am grateful if you answer in writing. But it's a matter of saunas. I am not talking about spas and the saunas there, I am talking about so-called hygiene facilities, saunas, washing facilities in rural municipalities and villages or cities. In many places people who do not have a bath or sauna or shower at home, and they use social saunas. I also looked at this issue in the crisis.ee and it says that the local government can organise something. But I didn't find out if the local government could arrange that, for example, it would agree with the sauna manager if he didn't have it, and it would be possible to wash ten people in security. This hygiene problem will soon become a problem because some people in many places do not even have water in the house. Maybe you can enlighten me a little, even by sending me some material on it, if you don't know what to say right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U123	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U124	Thank you. I must admit that we have not discussed this issue of saunas in this form. We've been discussing spas, saunas, including, but the problem you're drawing attention to is that we need to look inside it. All I can really say right now is that these saunas go under the same spas, swimming pools, saunas that are covered with restrictions and are now closed. Is it possible to agree with local authorities there? Our aim is to prevent the spread of infectious diseases. But if people have such needs regarding washing opportunities, how can it be arranged so that, on the one hand, we do not increase the risk of infection but, on the other hand, people's needs can be met? I'll look into it and we'll come back to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U125	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U126	Let's move on to question 11. Kert Kingo, member of the Riigikogu, answers the Minister of the Interior Kristian Jaani. This is about police action. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U127	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of the Interior! Since April, ordinary Estonian people have visited and expressed their minds in the Liberty Square and before the Riigikogu. They have stood up for their constitutional rights and acted in accordance with the Constitution. These people have done so peacefully, they have not broken anything, they have not broken anything, they have not been aggressive. Among them are children, women, young and old. But on April 9, the policemen, who until now were considered first and foremost security providers, began to show their strength, their armaments, and their power. And my question is: for what reason was it decided to involve police special forces, i.e. rapid reactioners, to suppress the peaceful demonstration of the people? What caused such a need?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U128	Kristian Jaani, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U129	Thank you for your question. Indeed, as you said at the beginning of your question, in Estonia, all people have the right to gather and express themselves peacefully. It is regulated by the Law Enforcement Act, which divides public gatherings into two: one is a public event and the other is a public meeting. And it is true that, in certain cases, you do not have to report a public meeting. If you don't rearrange traffic, sound equipment, such as a rudder, no tributaries, no stage, you don't really need to report the event. And I stress that there is a procedure in Estonia where other times only has to be informed. You don't have to ask permission for a public meeting. This is one of the fundamental rights so that people can come and express themselves. Indeed, in the initial phase, when people began to protest, originally on Toompea, the police had very good contact with people who were like organizers. The police received messages and suggestions on how to ensure a health emergency situation where people would be scattered during the demonstration and not get infected. In fact, there were certain restrictions then. It may have been published by the mind, but it could be done with a maximum of ten people and ensure that there was no dispersal. And since there was no organizers' stewardship there, the police took on this task to ensure order at a public meeting. When we talk about police action, police action or, in other words, police tactics are something that the police must choose for themselves. That's what police tactics are called. When we talk about the policemen who have returned to the safety of people at these events, these are police units that are patrolling the streets of Tallinn every day. It's been said here by the rapid-reactors that they've been isolated from somewhere. No, these police units are patrolling the streets of Tallinn every day. And when we talk about police equipment, police uniforms, the police got a new uniform in 2019. Most people have this form of police, and the equipment that's on the belt is daily police equipment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U130	And now for a more specific question, Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U131	Thank you. You mentioned police tactics here. The police's tactics must still be in line with who is currently being confronted, or who is facing the police. And this time it wasn't aggressive with knives, a bunch of men in a drunken boxing room with guns. They were peaceful people who expressed their minds and had women, children, and old people. Why was it necessary to use special equipment, such as dogs, and an impressive arsenal of weaponry? What was it hoped to achieve?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U132	Indeed, 99% of these people were peaceful and used their right to protest peacefully. And this right is available to all Estonians and also to the people of other countries who are here. But there were some people who were really very aggressive in verbal terms and who no longer listened to the advice given to them by the police at these demonstrations. Maybe then there was a risk that the police wouldn't follow orders. And the police must always consider in their tactics that there is a danger of escalation. If there are a large number of people together in one place at a time and there is some small company that does not take advice from the police, then there is always a risk of mass psychosis or mass involvement. There is a danger that a small group of people for whom rules are not important will also psychologically attract a larger group who have actually come together to show their peace. Such situations must also be prevented and the police must also choose the appropriate tactics, i.e. if necessary, to increase their resources if there is a risk. If it's not in danger, you can reduce your strength. And we've seen in these situations that when there are fewer people, the police have been very well advised. And then the police have automatically been less. In other words, if the action degenerates, the police will draw back their resources. I have seen this, too, and in recent days only congratulations can be given to these demonstrators. The protesters themselves have been very forceful in conveying the message that we are scattered, that we adhere to the rules. And that's only positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U133	And now for an additional question. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U134	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good Minister of the Interior! Today, in this Chamber a moment ago, you used this phrase, just as you did on April 12 on the Vikerradio "News+," where you said, I quote now: "... if we have a health emergency in the country declared, and in our country this is the case... " Hence the question: When and who informed the public about the health emergency and how long should it last?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U135	Well, an emergency isn't actually announced. It's written like that in HOS. The emergency is what is being announced in the country. The emergency situation is so-called emerging and stated by the Director General of the Health Board, but it is not announced. That's what the law says.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U136	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U137	Let's move on to the next question, that's 12. It has been submitted by Ruuben Kaalep, member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, member of the Government of the Republic. The subject is foreign policy. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U138	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Last week the Minister of Foreign Affairs appeared here before the Riigikogu, who responded to the question of the members of the Riigikogu, whose questions concerned, among other things, the situation of indigenous peoples living on the territory of China. In his replies, the Minister of Foreign Affairs interpreted the right of the peoples to self-determination in such a way that the right of the peoples to self-determination does not include the right to independence, but only concerns the right of a particular minority to cultural autonomy within a larger country. I would like to ask whether this interpretation of the right of self-determination of nations is the official position of the Government of the Republic. Are you also of the opinion that Estonia has no reason and no moral obligation to support the aspirations of the independence of the nations that are being suppressed by the authorities of totalitarian mouths?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U139	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U140	Thank you. We ourselves have been in a situation where we have had our own efforts and we have been supported on this issue. If you look at the whole world, countries will develop in the same way, and these peoples will also have the right to self-determination. Now, when you ask about China, in relation to China, Estonia has been based on one Chinese policy throughout its independence. And the Republic of Estonia entered into diplomatic relations with the People's Republic of China. This means that we treat the People's Republic of China as an international subject. This principle has also been respected at European Union level. Given that the People's Republic of China is also a permanent member of the UN Security Council and an important partner in resolving various global issues, it would certainly not be in Estonia's interest that we interrupt diplomatic relations with the People's Republic of China. I understand that the content of your question was, do we recognise the Republic of China and Taiwan? That's how I understood the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U141	And now for a more specific question, Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U142	Thank you. My question was not only about Taiwan, but also about the Tibetan people, the Uighurs, the indigenous people of Internal Mongolia, for example. The question is whether these peoples have the right to independence if the vast majority of the people who live under Chinese rule find that the Beijing regime does not guarantee them the right to cultural expression within the country where they are now. Do they have the right to self-determination? Do they have the right to independence?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U143	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U144	There are many different nations in the world and different applications in the same way. What is happening to the nations mentioned in China is very worrying. For example, you mentioned the Uighurs and I agree with you on this. But in diplomatic relations we are with the People's Republic of China. This does not mean that Estonian citizens cannot support one or the other movement that is taking place in one country or another and, of course, monitor everything that is happening in different countries and personally support them. But the other side concerns diplomatic relations at national level and we have diplomatic relations with the People's Republic of China.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U145	And now one more question. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U146	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! My question is two-part. One part relates to the previous question that was put to Kristian Jaan. Kert Kingo was talking about peaceful demonstrators who were subjected to excessive violence by the police and whatever. I'd like to update that picture a little bit. Firstly, that the fact that a police officer taught Kert Kingo how to make a left turn is not police violence. And two: these same peaceful demonstrations in the previous days, before the police arrived, threatened the members of the Riigikogu. They threatened to take them out, put bullets in their heads, go around with some gallows tree that the traitors promised to hang, and so on. My question is, do you think that this picture or these events could have somehow affected the police response? But the second question relates to the international situation and foreign policy. A few weeks ago, the president of the EKRE Mart Helme promised here in the Riigikogu that he would initiate the parliamentary group of Estonia's departure from the European Union in the Riigikogu. He hasn't done that, as he always does, he promises, but doesn't fulfill his promises or threats. But how do you assess whether even the theoretical initiation of such a parliamentary group or the calling for it strengthens or weakens the security of Estonia or does not change anything?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U147	Procedural question, Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U148	Thank you. I would like to remind MP Randpere that he is, at the moment, completely consciously distorting the facts that have happened to me and thus spreading completely wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U149	Thank you. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U150	Thank you. There were two questions. First of all, I very much acknowledge the police that they have acted peacefully in these situations, explained to people the requirements of dispersal, the restrictions, although they were constantly provoked and tried to get images of all these words that they were malicious, as if they were evidence. As the Minister of the Interior said, 99% of those who protested were peaceful, but among them were provocators. As you yourself said: if threats of killing are sent, this certainly does not refer to peaceful citizens. So I believe the police acted on their own threat assessment. As regards the departure from the European Union, which Mart Helme is driving, I would say that, if we know any about Estonia's history, in the big picture, we have two options: whether to be with Russia or to be with Europe. We have been with Russia, and it has not brought happiness to our yard. In terms of value, we are clearly part of Europe. In terms of space of value, it is important that we are never alone again, that we have allies who share the same principles, the same values, that we are part of Europe, like Germany or France, so that our word weighs just as much at European level. We must be active at European level. And we have won from being in Europe, both economically and in terms of people's freedoms. So I am definitely among the 80% of the Estonian population who support membership of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U151	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. I thank all the members of the Government of the Republic for their replies and thank all the members of the Riigikogu actively for asking questions. Thank you very much. Mart Helme, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U152	Since my name was mentioned...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U153	I'm so sorry. That rule doesn't apply here, the rule of name mention applies in the negotiations. So I'm really sorry, but this is not an opportunity for home and operating procedures. Question Time is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U154	Honourable Riigikogu! Hello, beautiful Wednesday! We will begin the session of the 12th working week of the V plenary session on Wednesday. Now is the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U155	Thank you very much, Honourable Vice-Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I will bring you a draft decision of the Riigikogu from the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, the purpose of which is to establish a committee of inquiry of the Riigikogu in April 2021 to clarify the legality and proportionality of the police operation in the centre of Tallinn. As we all know, at the beginning of April we had extensive peaceful demonstrations, at the beginning in front of the castle of Toompea and later in the Liberty Square. To these demonstrations, where we know there has been no case of violence or conflict between people or with law enforcement, the Police and Border Guard Agency reacted extremely aggressively and threateningly, starting to force peaceful citizens out of public space, to impose fines on people on any grounds, to arrest them, to search them and confiscate them. There was also a mass and systematic psychological influence on people, including the imposition of demands and orders that were not legal, and the practice of demonistic intimidation. These activities are illegal, both individually and in their collection, and, as a result, people were unable to realise their constitutional rights. This question is not a legal dispute, which is why people should turn to the courts and discuss it in court. This is a fundamental issue of the rule of law and the functioning of democracy, which must necessarily be responded to at political level. It is the Riigikogu, as a representative of the people, that must be an active and substantive contributor to this issue in order to force political control over the executive power and power structures that have gone down the way of abuse of power. That is why we want to set up a committee of inquiry, which will, among other things, analyse the activities of government and public authorities and identify the decision-making and coordination processes that led to the abolition of constitutional rights. There is a need for clarity as to who, where, when and based on what information made these decisions. So that's what we're gonna do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U156	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U157	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the 14 members of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I will report an inquiry to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Eva-Maria Liimetsa. The inquiry concerns violations of human rights by the Tibetan people and Tibetans. As we know, Estonia has started to criticise the People's Republic of China quite sharply for human rights violations, especially in Hong Kong and East Turkestan. Unfortunately, it's editing in the comfort zone. This is internationally accepted and we have very risk-free positions here. At the same time, the Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs has completely overlooked human rights violations by about a few dozen Chinese minorities. The most intrusive, however, is what is happening now in Tibet. And not only now, but essentially since 1959, when the People's Republic of China illegally annexed this country, this country. And since the Tibetan people are today in much the same situation as was the end of the Soviet occupation of Estonia, the Tibetans are in a minority in the capital Lhasa, the east of Tibet, the province of Amdo, which was completely Tibetan 40 years ago, are currently completely Chinese, closed and destroyed monasteries, persecuted monks and nuns, expelled Tibetans from the leading positions in the region, and punished for any dissent, we have a total of six issues for the Minister of Foreign Affairs, which, unfortunately, I cannot read out of time here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U158	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U159	Thank you, Mr President. Good Riigikogu! I will hand over the bill on behalf of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. At its Monday meeting, the Finance Committee decided to initiate a draft law supplementing the Financial Supervision Authority Act. The purpose of the draft is to provide for the right of the Financial Supervision Authority to publish alerts and to warn the public of non-compliant activities and suspicions relating to financial supervision. Information will enable the Estonian public to be informed at an early stage about the risks related to the financial sector and to inform consumers about justified risks in the field of financial supervision. Given the growing market for financial services and the emergence of new types of services, there is an increasing likelihood that financial services or products which may be subject to authorisation by the Financial Supervision Authority for the provision or provision of which the person providing the relevant service or product does not have a licence will be advertised to the public. In this case, it is extremely important that the Financial Supervision Authority has the opportunity to inform or warn the public immediately. The draft has been forwarded to the sitting department electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U160	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U161	Thank you, Mr President. On behalf of my colleagues in the Group of the Social Democratic Party and myself, I will address an inquiry to the Prime Minister concerning the priorities and compliance with vaccination. The government has said when it takes office that an effective vaccination process and its organisation as quickly and effectively as possible is a priority number one. Unfortunately, we have seen that this priority number one has in no way wanted to be a smooth one. As agreed, the first priority throughout Europe is to protect those most vulnerable to this disease. This is the 80+ population with the highest mortality rates, hospitalization rates. Unfortunately, in this context, Estonia remains one of the worst in the European Union. Almost ten countries have already reached over 90% coverage, we have just over 50%. We've been talking about this here for weeks. The government has acknowledged that older people are a priority: we work, we make an effort. I looked at last week's vaccine doses: 90% of the vaccines went to under 80, two thirds went to under 70. It's a priority, but the dosages pass. Consequently, we have a total of six questions for the Prime Minister, which will be about the way in which we will achieve greater coverage in the most vulnerable groups. The government has promised to reach 70% by the end of next week in the 80+ age group. Let's ask when we get to 90%, what is really necessary and where many countries have already arrived. There are many other questions. As this is a time-critical issue and the Prime Minister himself has said that he will come quickly to answer questions about the corona crisis, we hope that he will find a way to come before us immediately after the free week on Monday, 3 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U162	I adopted two drafts and two inquiries, and the Bureau will, of course, decide on their further processing in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Now I have a message for you. Namely, today, 10 minutes after the end of the plenary session, a meeting of the Tori Support Group will take place, convened by Kaido Höökelson. The meeting will take place in Teams environment and a link will be sent to all members of the Riigikogu at the end of the session. Now it's time to do the presence check. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U163	93 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 8.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U164	And now one more detail on the agenda. Indeed, yesterday, we had a first reading of the draft law amending the law on the law on parties and the law on the amendment of the law on enforcement proceedings initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group and member of the Riigikogu, Raimond Kaljulaid. And we can go from where we left off yesterday, which was the Oudekki Loone speech on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Good Oudekki if you're [ready]. First, however, there is a procedural question in Paul's Woodland. Please, Paul Pulpland!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U165	Thank you very much, manager. I have a procedural question in this sense that it was so urgent to finish reading the same 321 yesterday that I had the impression that, in the final part of my speech, there was a slightly dual view of what we were finally going to say on behalf of the group. Therefore, I would like to make this clear, just in case, so that it is very clear. It was our wish to reject the same draft and the proposal has been received electronically by the Bureau. So I'm just going to be more specific about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U166	Indeed, this paper has also reached my desk on paper, so we will get to that procedure. But before starting negotiations, I would like to ask Oudekki Loone on behalf of the Estonian Centre Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U167	[[Remote connection]] Hello, ladies and gentlemen. So let's pick up where we left off yesterday. It is extremely important to make sure that our democracy is transparent and that the election campaign is a competition over ideas, not about who can put more pictures or, more favourably, pick up television advertising in some interesting ways. Predictably: in fact, we in the Centre Party believe that, in order to increase transparency in the funding of political parties, it is more sensible to regulate output. But then let's get to the substance of the bill that the Social Democrats have presented to us for discussion. The draft deals with illegal donations, as well as increasing the role of the Political Financing Monitoring Commission. The ERJK has been operating for about ten years and awareness of the importance of ensuring transparency of funding has also increased considerably in society and the effectiveness of control has actually improved. On the other hand, in practice we have seen that there are many legal bottlenecks, organisational bottlenecks, case law. So, in this sense, it is the right time to look back now and ask whether anything should be improved, whether something should be changed, whether any power needs to be expanded. Certainly in addition to what has been proposed specifically, I think it is reasonable, however, to discuss whether this structure of the ICTY is the best. Now, with all the thoughts that the Social Democrats have said here, we do not necessarily agree, but we will, of course, support the continuation of the debate and, if necessary, the increase in transparency in the area of power. It must certainly be ensured that if the state has made some kind of law, compliance with this law can be monitored and sanctions can actually be enforced. Of course, all people and parties must be treated fairly and equally, in the same way. On the other hand, the wordings must be carefully thought out. Several of the problems in the Commission last night also sounded, and I will not repeat them again. All the more so once again: the activities of the ICTY should be regulated. Now, we cannot miss the question of whether the ICTY should remain a political committee in structure, just as it is today, where parliamentary parties are, to a large extent, its constituent elements. It is particularly important that we extend the rights of the ICTY if we also increase funding. One might ask, for example, whether non-parliamentary parties should also be given the opportunity, as the ICTY also supervises them. For example, any party that receives more than 1% of the votes in the Riigikogu elections, more than 2% of the votes, could also have a seat in the ERJK. One case has also been here, where the ERJK published only a non-parliamentary party on the Greens of Estonia, not on the parliamentary parties. Of course, there was an immediate debate as to whether parliamentary parties were persecuting the Greens. Of course this is not the case, but it would certainly help transparency if everyone who is being monitored had a say in it. Of course, some suggest that the ERJK could create a completely technical specialist, take out political parties at all, give, I don't know, to the National Audit Office, make a new, separate specialist unit. We could discuss that as well. Of course, there is a risk that non-elected officials will monitor the elected entities with a mandate from the people, and that in itself is a problem for democracy. In particular, if we give the ERJK the right to completely keep a political party away from the elections, it is, of course, the question that if we, say, give the officials this power, they can make decisions as to whether a force can be allowed to the elections, especially when there are some problems with prohibited funding, that is done by specific people or by specific management bodies, not by 10000, 5000, no matter how many members of the political party it is in itself very difficult. On the other hand, one might ask that perhaps we do the opposite, that we give every political power veto, that all things must be done by consensus, or that we say that the procedure will start when at least two members want to. All these problems were mentioned yesterday, they are important points, and these problems also need to be reviewed in the future debate on this draft. And from the exact same assumptions, other proposals in this draft need to be analysed. Of course, the ERJK must have the opportunity to verify the compliance of all political forces with the law on the financing and use of money, but at the same time this role must be such that there is no doubt that this dignified organisation may be used in any way unfairly, to destroy its political competitors.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U168	Oudekki, would you like some extra time? Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U169	...legal war, not fair electoral competition. At this point, I would like to say to my good colleagues, in listening to yesterday's debate, that perhaps a demonstration of each other, pointing the finger, especially in the context of this draft, could be put aside. Otherwise, it would appear in the public space that the aim of the ERJK is to exercise control over only a few parties. That it is another elite project that must stand for the fact that the political parties of other Estonian workers, small entrepreneurs, rural people, ethnic minorities, ordinary people cannot grow and flourish, so that the elite must control it. Because that's no one's purpose, it's clear that it can't be anyone's purpose. But it's gotta look like that for every voter. We will go ahead with this draft, yes, respectfully, we will look at all the points based on the fact that we actually want to defend our democracy. We want to protect the fact that no one can have more political power only because it is happening to have more economic power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U170	Please! I would like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that the speaking time is five minutes and, if there is a desire to speak further, please give a signal either before a speech or during a speech, otherwise it will be very difficult to abide by this rule. The commission has proposed a draft of 321... I'm sorry! There are no more calls, so we will close the negotiations. I come back to the fact that the lead committee has proposed to conclude the first reading of draft 321. But we have received the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to reject the draft at first reading, and we will vote through it. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia to reject draft 321. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U171	The proposal was supported by 17 members of the Riigikogu, 66 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. That concludes the first reading and sets the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 13 May. With this, we have passed the first item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U172	The second item on today's agenda is the third reading of the draft law amending the Waste Act and the Packaging Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Here, too, we need to have a final vote. But before the vote, the political groups will be able to speak. Mr Alender asks for the floor on behalf of the Reform Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U173	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, You, too, who are watching us in the form of teleworking! The opportunity to speak at the third reading of this draft cannot be missed. The Reform Party is very supportive of this bill. I am not going to sum up its contents here for a very long time because, in fact, the EKRE Minister Rene Kokk, who introduced the draft here about two years ago, made a very good summary and talked about how this draft will transpose the amendments to the Waste Framework Directive, the Landfill Directive and the Packaging Directive into Estonian law. This is the first step towards improving one area that really matters to all of us. Yet we have somehow created a system where all kinds of fraud is alleged to occur, and trust is as if lost. I will also give you an example of why this bill matters to all of us. In fact, everything we buy is like being taken out of that cash box and you can't put it back there. I think we need to make a big change of heart first. That sweater I'm wearing today, it's a favorite sweater I've been wearing lately. It's kind of beautiful, in the colors of the Centre Party. And where did I get this? I don't really think I'd ever think of looking for a sweater like that in a store. But I went to my apartment building past the trash can, and on top of the container, someone had nicely folded this sweater. Two or three days, I'm gonna go by and see if, well, what's going on, I'm gonna see what this sweater looks like. And I saw that a perfectly decent sweater, I washed it, I took it, and now I'm happy to wear it. In short, we all actually have a very important role to play here in what we will do in the future in this area of waste. I would also like to say that I have a large package of materials here, I have tried to bring myself to a thorough course with this area, that not all the details are yet known. And the National Audit Office, the parties, the interest groups are certainly helpful here. I think today's draft is the first in a series of drafts that we actually need to deal with with you further. Some keywords that matter, maybe. Definitely separate collections, to which this bill will also take us, requiring that bio-waste be collected or composted everywhere by 2023. But then there's everything that relates to the data set. We can watch digital systems today as a child drives, deals, moves where he is, what he does, and yet we cannot monitor what happens to all of our common resources. All this resource is limited, it's taken from nature, and the sooner we actually burn it, or worse, we deposit it, the more polluting it is to the planet. For example, one thing that certainly needs to be looked at: today recycling is more expensive for carriers and operators than burning or landfilling. This is certainly something that needs to be changed, as well as creating demand for second-round materials. But also the issue of responsibility again. I was talking about everyone's responsibility, but I have become clear today, it seemed to me that recovery organisations, to whom manufacturers today can give up this responsibility for the payment, would be responsible if the materials were not recycled. But it turns out that the law is actually interpreted as meaning no one is responsible. Perhaps there will be no real financial consequences. I'm sure that's the subject again. We're all taxpayers today. With the previous government's decision, it was written as a 'plastic' which comes from the European Union, 26 million of all taxpayers will pay. Whether you buy a toothpaste tube with three packages or one pack, whether you use your clothes again, you give them to another circle or not, all right? There's gotta be some sort of distinction in this place. Can I have some more time, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U174	Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U175	Thank you. Now, the local authorities certainly have a huge role to play in this whole waste issue, and many of them are also concerned that if we move forward, how is the motivation of the local government to train its own people on the one hand, for example, to get a new container park on the other? For example, Aivar Viidik, a good colleague of the Riigikogu, has conducted this process in Hiiumaa. Certainly, the State must find a solution to help local authorities with transparent, clearly targeted expenditure support. Similarly, I think that these are issues that we will be able to deal with quite a lot more with all of you in the future. As far as this draft is concerned, here we are actually setting very clear targets for ourselves: for what year and to what extent materials and waste must be recycled. I think it's actually a good step. It took two years, two years in different governments, and the composition of the Riigikogu has been adjusted to some extent, thanks to the change of government, we have dealt with it and many interest groups have also talked about it. But in general, I would like to thank everyone, starting with the Minister who brought this draft here, and all my colleagues from the Committee on the Environment who have been in the process, as well as the previous chairman, Erki Savisaar, who carried part of this process. We continue to take responsibility, do our part, create a system that motivates people and businesses to make smarter, more sustainable and more sustainable choices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U176	Next, on behalf of the Group of the Centre Party, Erki Savisaar. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U177	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U178	Please, eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U179	Thank you, Mr President. Good Riigikogu! Bill 190 has been dealt with for a long time. Not for two years, but just a year, as I recall, it was handed over to the Riigikogu in May 2020. The main reason why the procedure has taken so long is that, for more than ten years, the problem of waste management has been addressed rather than by fine-tuning. And at some point there was no other choice but to say from this side of the Riigikogu that it would help and ask where there are substantive solutions. This draft gave an opportunity to discuss how these structural waste management problems, which was also referred to by the previous speaker, could be resolved. The waste industry needs structural changes, i.e. changes that would give both the opportunity and the obligation to organise the transport and reprocessing of waste to those who can and will actually do so. At national level, it is also necessary to systematically seek solutions for the recycling of waste, whether through different procurements or investments. The interesting thing about this debate was that it was accepted by all market operators, waste operators, waste holders, municipalities, ministry, but, due to political differences, we have never got away from this stump. Waste recycling plants need to be sure that the waste stream is stable and that there is a market for production. Estonia will not achieve the objectives of the circular economy set by the European Union blue-eyed, hoping that everything will be resolved by the power of the market or by magic. Tackling the problem must be addressed at both national and local level and, of course, businesses must also contribute. The draft law 190 contains mainly provisions relating to the transposition of directives, but some steps are also taken towards more structural changes. I would like to highlight two changes: first, the obligation to collect bio-waste separately, and secondly, a small supplement to the local government toolbox for negotiations with producer responsibility organisations. I very much hope that the legal provisions contained in this law will make it possible to better ensure good order around public packaging containers and increase the recycling of bio-waste. The Centre Party supports the adoption of the bill 190, but also points out that the problems of waste management cannot be resolved with this. We need much deeper debates on how to actually reach the goal. We have made a commitment that by 2025 55% of waste will have to be recycled. According to the methodology that we will have to use in four years, our actual level is currently 13 to 33%. The fork is so big because there is no real overview of what is actually done with waste and how much of this waste we have. But both numbers are far from what they're supposed to be. We had to achieve a 50% recycling rate last year and we achieved this in accounting terms, not in substance. For the second time, we cannot achieve our goal on paper alone. Something really needs to be done, to actually recycle the waste. The best way to achieve this goal is currently related to oil shale boilers of Eesti Energia. It is already possible to process old tyres into oil with oil shale, and in the run it is possible to do the same with plastics. The lab tests are over. If the attempts to recycle plastic were successful, Estonia would be able to solve not only the domestic plastic problem, but the plastic problem throughout the Baltic States and Scandinavia. However, further solutions need to be sought. When looking for solutions, we should not forget the fact that if Estonia fails to meet the targets it will mean an additional cost to hundreds of millions of budgets. Whether this is the loss of quota trade money, reduced subsidies or fines to be paid for failure. Good Riigikogu, I wish you constructiveness and openness in the debates ahead! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U180	And now, on behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Peeter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U181	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I speak very little and briefly. This bill really is, as my colleague Erki Savisaar said, a few rooster steps. That's the correct comparison: rooster step. I've seen this whole thing for a very long time. As soon as the Chairman of the Environment Committee had disappeared from the Riigikogu, we dealt with it for 18 months. We had dozens of experts sitting at a big table, more and more, and nowhere. During the new composition, the current composition of the Riigikogu, well, after a while, we came up with this draft, which is going to reach our finals today, but it is already a thinner option, there are only a few directives left in it, but the whole waste management problem is, in fact, still unresolved until today. Yes, at the moment we are adopting these directives from Europe, but the whole system is still unorganized. That is what I want to stress to you, ladies and gentlemen. At times, seeing all this dance over the years, I have repeatedly wondered if it is some kind of space technique. In fact, waste and garbage do not produce at all so much, so in mega-volumes, and the problem is not so big that it requires some kind of special brains. There are, in fact, conflicts with interests, with real interests, and also with the confrontation between certain municipalities and the state. And we haven't been able to agree on that until today. So if we adopt this bill today, I'm not saying it's like an emergency kill, but it's really a couple of rooster steps. But all these problems with the generation of waste and its recovery, in this green wind, which is strongly blowing by Brussels, are still ahead and unsolved. Indeed, a solution has been found on paper last year, with a hat trick it has been achieved, but the actual work is just beginning. So that is what we should have in mind today when we adopt this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U182	The political groups have no further requests to speak. I will close the negotiations and move to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote before you on the draft law amending the Waste Act and the Packaging Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 190. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U183	The draft was supported by 82 members of the Riigikogu, with 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law. With this, we have exhausted the second item.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U184	We will move on to the third item on the agenda, which is the draft law amending the Customs Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 311. We are in the middle of a second reading and a rapporteur from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Annely Akkermann. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U185	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. On 11 January including 11 January, the Riigikogu initiated a draft law amending the Customs Act 311. I would recall briefly that the draft lays down national implementing rules for the smoother transposition of European Union law in two areas, namely rules on the clearance of small-value mail and courier consignments ordered from countries outside the Union, in particular e-shops, and rules on checks on the entry and export of cash. More specifically, from 1 July this year the VAT exemption for packages and consignments of up to EUR 22 will disappear, which means that all consignments of up to EUR 150 will come from 1 July in s. a to be declared. In order to allow quick delivery of packages below EUR 22, the customs declaration is permitted before arrival in Estonia. People are able to transfer the amount of tax to their Pre-Payment Account at the Tax and Customs Board. The tax amount is initially increased by 7% to cover currency fluctuations. The amount that does not enter into use shall remain on the prepayment account or may be recovered in accordance with the Tax Administration Act. The Commission sent a notice to market participants on the procedure for this draft. We received a reply from the Chamber of Commerce and it was also that they did not have any comments. The Commission discussed the referral to second reading on 18 April and adopted procedural decisions. Firstly, to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by today's 21 April. Propose the termination of the second reading. And third, when the second reading is closed, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and that the final vote be taken on 5 May inclusive. All decisions were taken by consensus. The meeting was attended by the speaker, Riho Breivel, Jüri Jaanson, Raimond Kaljulaid, Siim Kallas, Mikhail Korb, Kristen Michal, Sven Sester and Mikhail Stalnukhin. That's all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U186	Good waitress, no questions for you. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. No requests to speak, I will close the negotiations. We can finish second reading; this is also the proposal of the lead committee. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U187	The fourth item is the second reading of Bill 313 of the Law on Audit Activities, Accounting Act and Amendment of the Securities and Markets Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Jüri Jaanson, member of the Economic Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U188	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The draft Act amending the Audit Act, the Accounting Act and the Securities and Markets Act 313 was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 11 January. The first reading took place in the Riigikogu on 17 March. The deadline for amendments, i.e. 31 March, did not receive any proposals from the Riigikogu. The Commission informed the Accounting Board, the Estonian Accounting Board, the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Auditor Assembly about the draft procedure. No proposal to amend the draft was received from them. The text was approved by the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. The Board of Auditors expressed its support for the proposals put forward by the initiator of the draft, the Government of the Republic. Two proposals were received, which were discussed at the Commission on 12 April, and representatives of the Ministry of Finance took part. All the amendments were examined and all the members of the Commission supported them in a consensual manner. The commission took procedural decisions. Take the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu, including by 21 April, and finish the second reading. When the second reading is completed, put the draft for the third reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu and take the final vote on 5 May. All these decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U189	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish to negotiate, I will close the negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. The first, submitted by the Committee on Economic Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. The second amendment, tabled by the lead committee and taken into account in the same way in full. We have therefore examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft. The second reading is done with this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U190	The fifth item is the first reading of Bill 359 of the Amendment to the Information Society Service Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The presentation is made on behalf of the Government by Andres Sutt, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology. Please! [[Silence.]] Okay, let's try to get back in touch with Andres Sut. [[Silence.]] I'll take the chairman's break three minutes to find out what the technical problem is. Three minutes break. Ladies and gentlemen, We are supposed to have solved technical problems. The floor is Mr Andres Sutil, Minister for Entrepreneurship and Information Technology. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U191	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I'm sorry about the technical hiccup, but I think everything's going smoothly. I am pleased today to present a draft law to promote the functioning of the platform economy. This is an area that is increasingly important in business and trade, as it allows new business models and innovation. The popularity of working through the platform has clearly increased in Estonia. The platform economy has led to new business relationships which need to be better regulated to ensure legal certainty. We must make sure that this new economy operates in accordance with transparent rules, as this will ensure equal competition. Last year, namely 12 July 2020, the so-called Platforms Regulation, directly applicable to the European Union, entered into force. The European Commission has made it clear in its feedback that we also need to improve our legal system somewhat so that the protection of the rights of business users is even better ensured. Business users are in particular small businesses that provide services or goods to citizens through platforms. The amendments to the draft are minimal and aim at ensuring compliance with the requirements of the Regulation and compliance with the rules. To this end, we give the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority the right to monitor and, if necessary, call upon the platforms. In order to ensure legal certainty, we will specify the amount of the penalty and modernise the fine rates. The aim is, as has been said, to ensure the functioning of the market in a transparent and reliable manner and on an equal footing. In addition to fulfilling the requirements of the eCommerce Directive, we provide for a VAT number to be published by the supplier when his activities are subject to VAT. In addition, we specify the right of competent authorities to restrict cross-border services in cases of urgency. There were no such requirements so far. The draft does not impose any new restrictions on companies active in trade. At the same time, the necessary legal frameworks for the exercise of the freedom to conduct a business will be maintained. The law enters into force in general. This is necessary for the proper implementation of the already applicable Platform Regulation to take place as soon as possible. However, the obligation to add a VAT number will enter into force from 1 September to ensure that market participants can adapt to the change. The draft has been coordinated with entrepreneurs through professional associations such as the Estonian E-Commerce Association, the Estonian Association of Hotels and Restaurants, the Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Association, the Estonian Association of Sharing Economy, the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Estonian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises. All these alliances have also accepted the amendments. Dear members of the Riigikogu, I ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U192	Good Minister, there are also questions for you. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U193	Thank you. My first question is that I read about the draft introduction that we are doing this because a directive came on it in the European Union. What is it about the European Union, I don't understand? In principle, anything can be said about better regulation of the internal market. But the way we operate online shops and online publications is, after all, not the competence of the European Union at all according to the Treaties, which is the competence of the Member States. The simple question is: is it a mandatory directive or a voluntary directive? If it's a volunteer, why are we taking it over? Are there any pieces that are optional, which we might not take over, but do we?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U194	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. It is not a directive, it is a regulation. And as I said in my introductory speech, this regulation is directly applicable and, in fact, it is already being implemented on 12 July last year. With this draft law, we specify that we give the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority the right to monitor platforms, that we increase the fine and enforcement rates and that, separately, to comply with the requirements of the eCommerce Directive, those businesses that operate in e-commerce must include a VAT number, which is a very small and one-time change. We're not taking over anything more or more.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U195	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U196	Thank you. I have a separate question about e-commerce. Our party sells party snacks on its website. That's awesome! There are 35 or 40 different products, we make a little extra money, but the greater benefit is that things with our party logo are available and showable to everyone. It's trade, it's pure trade. But we have not reached the VAT volumes. What does this have to do with our party's online shop?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U197	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for your question. If you are not liable for VAT, you are not concerned.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U198	No further questions. Mr. Minister, thank you. Let us move to the Commission's presentation by Mikhail Stalnukhin, Member of the Economic Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U199	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed this issue at its regular meeting on 12 April, including. The Minister was not present, but, of course, in the online environment, three more ministerial officials took part in the discussion on this issue. The minister wrote a little bit more detail about what he was talking about right now, about this whole thing. It was a little more figurative, too, because the respective slides were shown. After the introduction, there was not a very long debate. A total of seven questions were put by five members of the Commission. And now, for the sake of accuracy, I'm looking at the protocol. I asked if there was a coordination round. If so, with whom and with what results. As a matter of principle, the Minister has spoken about this now, and I will discuss this later. My second question concerned 1 September 2021, whether all the necessary mechanisms could be activated by then. In response, the Regulation was adopted in 2019, came into force from 2020 and since then a great deal of work has been done with those affected. And in a virtually absolute majority, all the necessary measures have already been taken. Then my colleague, Raimond Kaljulaid, asked. According to him, by looking at the solutions made in the UK, the commercial users of the platforms are actually their employees. However, Estonia continues to treat them as business users, which is why it wondered whether its thinking was not a little behind in time. In addition, Kaljulaid examined how changes have been coordinated with the platform workers themselves or whether only employers have been spoken to. Andres Sutt said that there are different business users and there are different service providers where the business model is different and which are classical platforms. Where and how contractual relations should be regulated in the case of platforms providing services such as driving-sharing services is a broader issue. Raimond Kaljulaid pointed out that Bill 359 aims to better protect the rights of business users, but business users themselves are not involved in the development. All in all, the answer was that not every company can discuss all the draft laws. That is what business organisations are for; they are coordinated with them. The Minister has already mentioned that there are six of these organisations and they have no comments. Sven Sester wanted to know the administrative burden on the various parties with regard to the changes and the financial impact. The Minister replied that since the Platform Regulation was applicable last July, the country's view has already taken over a great deal. The Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority has the capacity and the tasks assigned to them, and they will also be monitoring. The business side is primarily affected by the obligation to establish dispute settlement procedures. This concerns platforms with more than 50 employees and a turnover of more than 10 million. There are fewer than 10. Sven Sester asked whether there was no coordination table in the draft because there were no comments or suggestions from market participants. I asked for a table of coordination, I looked at it, and there were quite a number of proposals actually made by the Ministry of Justice. Almost all of them have been taken into account and have been included in the draft, including the level of fines. Jüri Jaanson wanted to know in which cases the penalty will be imposed and which fine and where the rates will come from. The Minister replied that the law in force had a uniform penalty of EUR 640 in the event of non-compliance with the injunction. However, this is too small for the platforms and has been amended on the proposal of the Ministry of Justice and the ceiling has been set at EUR 100000. In the case of a misdemeanour, there is also a proposal to increase the maximum penalty rate applied, which would be EUR 400000 according to Estonian legislation. At the end, Siim Kallas noted that the draft law 359 is similar to the draft legislation on European digital markets and digital services, as all three are talking about platforms, their rules and related matters. Kallas examined whether this draft would take into account the draft legislation on digital markets and digital services. The answer was that there are indeed more regulations. The idea of the 359 draft law is much narrower and, above all, concerns consumer protection and empowering the relevant agency and bringing some matters into line with the eCommerce Directive. It was decided to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that this issue be brought to the hearing on 21 April and that the first reading be completed. The Commission's rapporteur was co-ordinated a little earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U200	The members of the Riigikogu have no questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. Any requests? No, it's not. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of Bill 359. That concludes the first reading. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5 May at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U201	Our sixth item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Act on the ratification of the Convention on the Protection of the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea Area initiated by the Government of the Republic. Tõnis Mölder, Minister of the Environment, will introduce this from the government. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U202	[[Remote connection]] Good chairman of the sitting! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will present you with a draft law amending the Act on the ratification of the Convention on the Protection of the Marine Environment in the Baltic Sea Region. The draft provides for changes to the existing ratification law to ensure legal clarity. Firstly, we want to remove from the current ratification law a mandate rule for the Government of the Republic regulation, and secondly, we want to clarify in the ratification law that the Ministry of the Environment is responsible for the implementation of the Baltic Sea Convention for the Protection of the Marine Environment. The mandate rule is amended so that the new mandate rule is transferred to the Water Act in force today. This will allow, on the basis of a mandate rule, to establish compliance with the requirements of the regulation, which will be subject to better environmental supervision and accountability, as the Water Act provides for today. However, under the current ratification law, the Government of the Republic is responsible for the implementation of the Convention. In essence, however, the implementation of the Convention has been organised by the Ministry of the Environment as an authority in Estonia. In the interests of legal clarity and clarity of responsibility, we consider it necessary to make it a reality in the ratification law, i.e. to transfer it from the law of ratification to the law of water in the form of a mandate and also in the interests of legal clarity. The law is designed to enter into force in general. It is not possible to plan a more precise date of entry into force; separate implementing acts do not need to be adopted, so it is generally a rule of law, there is no provision of powers and it is rather a draft for legal clarity. It is precisely in view of the fact that a new water law was adopted a year and a half ago, which indeed provided for such changes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U203	Good Minister, there are no questions for you. Thank you. Mr Timo Suslov, member of the Committee on the Environment, will now receive the floor as a co-report. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U204	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This amendment was indeed pending in the Committee on the Environment on 12 April. Most of the members of the Commission were present and the Minister for the Environment and two ministerial officials were also invited to give a meaningful overview of why these changes need to be introduced here. I will not repeat the Minister's words as to why these changes are being made, and I will pass by. Two Members of the Commission also had questions. Yoko Alender was looking into why they're only now trying to implement the changes. Mr Mölder replied that the amendments were due to the amendment of the Water Act and, for reasons of legal clarity, amendments were also needed to the Act on ratification of the Convention. Another Member of the Commission, Timo Suslov, examined whether the Ministry of the Environment currently had any problems in monitoring. Tõnis Mölder also replied that the Ministry of the Environment had no problems with supervision. Procedural decisions were also taken. It was decided to propose a draft on the plenary agenda by 21 April, with a consensus vote. The first reading was proposed to be closed, and the vote was once again consensual. And Timo Suslov was appointed rapporteur, and that too was a consensual decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U205	No questions for you either, thank you. I'm opening negotiations. No requests to speak, I will close the negotiations. The proposal of the commission of directors, as you have heard, is to conclude the first reading, and with that we have completed the first reading of the draft 364. By the deadline for tabling amendments, I will set 5 May at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U206	Our seventh item on the agenda is draft law 361 on the amendment of the Employment Contracts Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Tanel Kiik, Minister of Health and Labour, will introduce it from the government. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U207	[[Remote connection]] Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I will give an overview of Bill 361, which is the amendment of the Employment Contracts Act and the related amendment of other laws. This draft transposes Directive 2019/1158 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the work-life balance between parents and carers. Substantial changes are made to the Employment Contracts Act, the Public Service Act and the Courts Act to transpose the Directive into Estonian law. The aim of this directive is to achieve equality between men and women in terms of labour market opportunities and treatment at work, making it easier for working parents and carers to reconcile work and family life. The specific amendments to be made to the draft act concerning the Directive are as follows: Workers on maintenance obligations will be entitled to ask for flexible working or working conditions, such as part-time or flexible working hours, teleworking opportunities, etc. In this case, a person with a care obligation is defined as at least one person raising a child under 8 years of age and a person who cares for a person who needs substantial care or support because of a serious health problem. The right to ask for flexible working conditions does not automatically impose on employers or authorities the obligation to grant the conditions requested to the employee or servant, but the employer or authority must justify its refusal in such circumstances. Perhaps the point is that he will at least consider it, evaluate the possibility, and then give a reasoned answer. An employee with a duty of care will also enjoy additional protection when the contract of employment is cancelled and the burden of proof paid when the contract of employment is cancelled. So far, the Employment Contracts Act only imposes the burden of proof on pregnant women, parents of a child under 3 years of age and employees' representatives. The draft also introduces amendments which extend the corresponding protection to workers with other care obligations and to the parents of children up to 8 years of age. Perhaps the aim is really to protect those who need more support and support in the labour market and who may already be in a more difficult position to find a job. These are all the amendments resulting from the Directive. In addition, the proposed amendments are not directly related to the directive. For example, the 10-day waiting period for entering into a contract of employment with a minor of 13 to 14 years will be abolished from registering a minor in the working register, i.e. the corresponding obligation will continue to apply to the recruitment of a minor of only 7 to 12 years. Its purpose and aim is to reduce the burden on both employers and the Labour Inspectorate in terms of recruiting young people aged 13 to 14 and to encourage the conclusion of employment contracts rather than debt-law contracts. This amendment was already approved by the Cabinet on 18 July 2020, i.e. during the previous government. In addition, the draft has been dealt with during the current government. In addition, some technical aspects of the regulation on parental leave adopted in October 2018 with the amendments to the parental leave and benefits system will be improved. Perhaps the new regulation on parental leave will enter into force on 1 April 2022 and will give both parents the right to 10 working days of parental leave for each child under 14 years of age. The initial transitional provision would have resulted in excessive administrative and workload for employers, parents and the Social Insurance Board for ten years, as different regulations would have been in place in parallel. Therefore, the original transitional provision will be abolished and the new regulation on parental leave will apply equally to all parents of children under the age of 14 when Parliament adopts the corresponding draft. On the subject of the transposition of the directive, Estonia's regulation is not fully in line with the length of the individual part of parental leave mentioned in the directive, as it does not guarantee men and women, in the case of raising a child under 8 years of age, the right to at least two months' paid parental leave. In Estonia, mothers are guaranteed 0.5 months of unpaid parental leave, one month of paid parental leave for fathers. Article 20 (7) of the Directive provides an opportunity to make such a distinction. The Article provides that, where Member States ensure that remuneration is paid at least 65% of the net salary of the employee for at least six months of parental leave for both parents, they may decide to maintain such a system instead of providing for the payment of the benefit referred to previously. The above paragraph can also be interpreted as meaning that in order to transpose the directive, Estonia does not need to extend the transferable parts of parental leave to mothers or fathers. Both paternity leave and parental leave are, as we know, 100% compensated in Estonia, not 65%, as was the minimum rate. Also, given that Estonia complies with the requirement for compensation laid down in Article 20 (7) of the same directive, we need to guarantee the mother and father only the individual part of the leave, which may also be unpaid in some respects. So this is such a background statement for this directive. That concludes my review and I am happy to answer the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U208	Good Minister, but there are no questions for you. Thank you! Now we have the opportunity to listen to the opinion of the Social Committee through the mouth of Toomas Järveoja. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U209	Good manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Committee on Social Affairs discussed this draft at its meeting on 12 April. This draft was presented to us at the meeting by Minister Kiik and, in fact, there were very few questions about this draft. Helmen Kütt asked for clarification of the changes to be made. Pirjo Turk of the Ministry of Social Affairs clarified and introduced these changes. The Commission decided to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 21 April, i.e. today; secondly, to propose that the first reading be closed and that Mr Järveoja, or I, be appointed as the representative of the commission. The deadline for amendments is 10 working days, i.e. 5 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U210	Also for you questions... However, Aivar Chef would like to ask. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U211	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good waitress! You said the Ministry officials introduced these amendments. I understand that the Commission supported all of these amendments. Can you read out what these major changes are?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U212	In fact, the Minister spoke quite nicely about these amendments. However, it transposes Directive 2019/1158 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the work-life balance between parents and carers. Changes have been made to the Employment Contracts Act and the Public Service Act and the Courts Act. The draft confers the right to ask for flexible working and service conditions for those who are obliged to take care of. The right to ask for working conditions does not impose any additional obligations on employers. In addition, additional protection is provided for workers with maintenance responsibilities when the contract of employment is terminated or released from service. An important point, which the Minister also spoke about, is that the draft removes the 10-day waiting period for a minor to register in the employment register when he or she signed a contract with a minor of 13 to 14 years of age. The corresponding obligation shall remain in force for the recruitment of 7 to 12 years of age. That's all I can think of right now, maybe I can't bring up any of those suggestions for improvement.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U213	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U214	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good waitress! I'd like to hear some background. The Child Welfare Association has said that it does not agree with the fact that, according to this draft, minors no longer need to be allowed to work from the Labour Inspectorate. The explanatory memorandum states that this should not be done in the interests of children, but the ministry has said that it is not necessary to let minors work. Open a little bit of this background for us, what's the point here? What is your opinion? And was it even discussed in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U215	In the Commission, this issue was not much resolved. But what I think is that employing 13 to 14 years of age could be less liberal so that you don't have to wait 10 working days. Maybe this young, 14-year-old will get over his job appetite if he has to wait 10 days. This is not the way we dealt with them in detail.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U216	Thank you! However, Aivar Kokk wishes to ask a second question as well. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U217	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good waitress! You mentioned that there is also a change that guarantees the job of a person at home with a child. Is there, like, three years in the past, or are there any changes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U218	I didn't understand the question. Can I do it again? I didn't really hear you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U219	Please return the microphone to Aivar Koka. Aivar Chef, please specify the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U220	[[Remote connection]] Are there any guarantees for parents at home with a child? Is it still three years like the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U221	I cannot comment on this right now; we did not discuss this point in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U222	No further questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. Do the political groups have any requests to speak? No, it's not. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of Bill 361. We have finished our first reading and will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5 May at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U223	We are going to the eighth item on today's agenda, which is the draft law amending the Law on identity documents initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in this connection, amending other laws 366. Kristian Jaani, Minister of the Interior, will introduce the bill from the government. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U224	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! It is pleased to stand before the honourable Riigikogu again, to introduce the draft law amending the Identity Documents Act and related amendments to other laws, which establishes a supranational central automated biometric identification system database ABIS. That's the abbreviation. ABIS is a biometric identification system based on artificial intelligence, and its introduction is another major step in the development of our e-society, which is certainly comparable in importance to the introduction of e-identity as well as X-Road 2002 and the introduction of e-residency in 2014. The establishment of ABIS was decided by the Government of the Republic in 2017 and aims to contribute to a more secure identity management, more effective provision of public order and security, prevention of crime and the gathering of evidence in criminal proceedings through serious identification and verification of identity. There are currently several databases in Estonia where various biometric data are processed for different purposes. For example, there is a database of identity documents, a visa register and a national fingerprint register. Data collections are located in different ministries and software developed at different times is used to capture and compare biometric data, which does not allow for equal and uniform management of such data. In addition, the current IT solutions for personal identification and identity verification have become obsolete and need to be updated. For example, the Estonian Forensic Institute is a tool used by fingerprint experts since 1998. Given Estonia's small size and central identity management, it is appropriate to pool know-how and all biometric data in a single database. This will ensure that biometric data are processed using secure and modern state-of-the-art technologies that ensure sustainable development that meets the needs of the sector. In ABIS, biometric personal data, facial and fingerprint images, which are occupied in different national procedures and are present today in different databases, will be stored, and ABIS will allow automatic comparison of these data. ABIS can be used for all systems where biometric identification is required, such as Police and Border Guard Board, Estonian Forensic Institute, Information Systems of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is important to stress that ABIS will certainly not create a super-data collection with personalised data of all people related to Estonia, because biographical data such as name, date of birth, personal identity code, citizenship and other data will continue to be stored in the relevant procedural register. For example, data given when applying for a passport are stored in the database of identity documents and in the visa register when applying for a visa. The draft establishes legal bases for the cross-use of data. The legal and technical capacity to cross-use data shall ensure that the identity of the person is properly identified and verified for reasons of public policy and national security. For example, when applying for an e-resident's digital identity card, the applicant must be identified and its extradition may be refused if it is not possible to seriously identify the person and threatens public policy or national security. In this case, the use of data collected in other proceedings is justified because the person may have used a different name in the past, falsified documents, has committed an offence or has been expelled from Estonia for illegal stay. The processing of data in ABIS's database will monitor all data protection principles and ensure the legitimate and transparent use of data. The ABIS database is only accessible to officials with legal basis and specifically authorised for the purpose of carrying out their statutory duties and may only be processed in ABIS for the purpose of carrying out the procedure. As special types of personal data are processed in the database, other technical and procedural measures will ensure the protection of the data in addition to the anonymisation of the data in the database. ABIS and ABIS interlinking databases exchange biometric data only in encrypted form and over the X-Road Data Exchange Layer. The owner of the data stored in ABIS is the person, and according to the Personal Data Protection Act, every person has the right to know who has looked at his or her data. BENEFICIARIES are introduced in two phases. In the first phase, by the beginning of June of this year, a module for the offence procedure will be introduced and the ability to compare fingerprint images will be realised. Conviction module is a tool of the Estonian Forensic Institute. In the second phase, i.e. the first half of 2022, the ability to compare facial images will also be realised and a module for administrative procedures will be introduced. Thank you for listening. I look forward to the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U225	There are, too. Kalle Grünthal starts.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U226	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I wonder how much it costs to create this ABIS and what the fixed costs are. I believe that when you submit this bill, this point must also have been discussed in your discussions. The exact number, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U227	Thank you for your question. The Government of the Republic allocated EUR 14832000 for the development and maintenance of ABIS for the period 2018 to 2025, and in addition the Structural Fund funds, amounting to a total of EUR 1.7 million, are also used. However, the majority is a one-off investment and then there are maintenance costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U228	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U229	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Are the numbers that you have just said final, or is there an option here that there may be some kind of extra costs unexpectedly?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U230	Thank you for your question. As far as I know, these sums are final today.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U231	No further questions. Mr. Minister, thank you. We now await a chair from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs from Andrei Korobeinik.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U232	Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the sitting! This draft was on the agenda of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 13 April, Tuesday. The hearing took place via the video bridge. This bill was presented to us by the Minister of the Interior, Kristian Jaani, who also talked about it in depth in this Chamber. There was no very serious dispute in the Commission over the content of the draft. The members of the Commission examined the various details of what the biometric database collects, how data gets there and what the possibilities of implementing this database are. And as it sounded here, only fingerprints and facial images reach the database, and no other biometric data gets into it. For example, the Minister of the Interior brought a situation in which a person who has changed his passport and name is re-entering Estonia, but biometric data can still identify this person. The Commission also made rather consensual procedural decisions. Specifically, to put the draft on the plenary agenda by today, 21 April. Propose to stop reading first and appoint me waitress. All these decisions were consensual. The deadline for tabling amendments shall be 10 days. That's all for me.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U233	Colleagues also have questions, Margit Sutrop begins.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U234	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Actually, I wanted to ask the minister, but I guess the push of the button didn't get there in time. This is a very important draft law and I basically support the adoption of this law, which will certainly be very useful. I have three small questions and maybe you can answer them on behalf of the Commission. The first question concerns the controller. In general, for reasons of transparency, one database could have one controller or several co-controllers, but they could at least be together. In my view, the fact that different controllers are mentioned in the law is confusing at the moment. I'm not going to give you these examples right now, but they're listed here, very different. Was that what we were talking about? The second question is what law is currently creating this aggregate database. The purpose of the draft is to establish a legal basis for the creation of ABIS database. At present, it is not clear which of these amending laws is still the basis on which the ABIS is created.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U235	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U236	[[Remote connection]] The third question concerns the processing of data in pseudonymised form. It says here that...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U237	Time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U238	[[Remote connection]] In accordance with § 111 (2) of the draft, the personal data of ABIS are processed in pseudonymized form in the database...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U239	Margit, time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U240	[[Remote connection]] ... and how biometric data can be processed in any pseudonymized form is not quite clear. After all, biometric data allow identification...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U241	Please interrupt here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U242	[[Remote connection]] . . . , pseudonymised data but not. So how, for example, can fingerprints be processed pseudonymically?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U243	Indeed, one question can probably be asked. However, there was no direct debate in the Commission on these issues. But as far as I can answer that, you can compare different data for anonymised data. For example, if fingerprints match, you can do it even if you don't know what person it is. It's totally doable. Now that a common database is created to replace existing databases, it is quite common practice and it is in itself in line with the Estonian e-governance strategy that we do not have duplicated data in different databases. This particular project may seem like such a technical one, but it is actually quite a development. This was also mentioned in the Commission. While its scope is currently rather limited, it can certainly be used more widely in the future. But once again, it was not directly mentioned in the Commission. Too bad this button really didn't hit in time. But thank you for me!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U244	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to sound like a broken record, but I really ask you to respect the one-minute rule. No one wants the questioner to be interrupted from this sitting chair. Please respect this, otherwise we will indeed be forced to take the opportunity to interrupt the time for questioning. That is why every member of the Riigikogu has the opportunity to ask two questions, if you do not have time to ask everything in a minute, then you can try another one at a time. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U245	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I have this kind of personal question that looks lightly into the future. Suppose this law is passed. Can this database provide you with benefits or benefits in the future, either for you personally or for companies associated with you?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U246	Thank you. First of all, I think that it will benefit me and you, good Kalle, because it is still our Estonian state. If this database can save development costs, then we will win as taxpayers. Personally, I don't plan on developing this database, it's a national project, and as far as I know, my company won't be involved. But I think it's gonna win us all. So let us hope that we will have a better future if we adopt this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U247	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U248	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good waitress! I'd like to know whose fingerprints and fingerprints and palm prints and the palm of the scribe's palm will be transferred to ABIS. Are these just policemen, some part of the police, or a wider group of [their] people?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U249	Thank you. Where these data came from was discussed in the Commission. This is not only a police archive, but also new passports are, in fact, biometric data. So in itself, if an Estonian citizen has a newer passport, his or her data will be in this database sooner or later. They're in different databases today. But the purpose of this project is to bring them together in one place. So, indeed, yes, the answer is that the sources of data are not only limited to the police, but also come from elsewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U250	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U251	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, manager. Good Andrei, tell me this: I understand that now there will be a new, central database of money put in there and it will be developed. Now that there is a new database, old databases that are scattered, will cease to exist?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U252	Thank you. In general, this was not mentioned in the Commission, but the practice is not such a black and white one. The aim is to avoid duplication of data. If you need fingerprints somewhere else in another service, they will be taken from this new database. They don't disappear directly, but they just don't keep the data in their possession, they're now taking it from this general database. So if your prints change, they're still in one place and they come from there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U253	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U254	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You're saying that [biometric data] is located in one place. They are currently also located in one place with these fingerprints and biometric data, and all those who need to receive this data will receive them with a reasoned request. Explain to me why we need to start putting them into another database.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U255	Thank you. There was no mention of this in the committee, but I have a deep suspicion that they will not be located together. Your fingerprints may be located, but in general, for example, when crossing a border and in the police archives, these data may not be in one place. That's one. And secondly, the goal is to bring biometric data together, so the facial image and fingerprints are also in one place. Fingerprints really aren't in one database today. It's a relatively certain thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U256	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U257	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good waitress! Glad to hear it. I've been talking a lot about the state of the police lately, but now all the prints we've turned on our fingers and fingerprints, and the palm of the hand and the palm of the writer's palm are being transferred to a database somewhere. But I'm asking when it might happen. We currently have the question of when 70% of the population has been vaccinated. But when is the plan that all these traces of the population will be taken and transferred to this ABIS?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U258	Thank you. This was not directly mentioned in the Commission's discussions. I've also answered before that when a person gets a new passport, his prints are getting to the database. None of this is planned for people who have not been fingerprinted to go to their homes and have their fingerprints taken and a facial image taken. But as far as this particular project is concerned, it will start in about a year's time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U259	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U260	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Good waitress! It was so unexpected. You informed us that the Commission decided that you would report this draft. I wouldn't have expected such a thing. But please also inform us of who is the initiator of this bill and what these moods are in this regard. Is it fear that it will fall out of the procedure at first reading? I have a letter in front of me that says that Mart Helme has initiated this draft as of 13.10.2020. Are you afraid that the moods have changed?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U261	Thank you. Indeed, the work of the Riigikogu offers surprises from time to time, and that is the charm of the matter. Now, as far as the initiator is concerned, the draft has been initiated by the Ministry of the Interior, not by today's fresh Minister of the Interior, but by the previous one, Mart Helme. That moods change, we also see quite regularly, so you never know what life will bring. In the Commission, the debate was very calm, very constructive. As I mentioned, everyone supported this bill, but it was a week ago. Very, very different things can happen in a week.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U262	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U263	[[Remote connection]] Thank you once again, Mr President. Good Andrei! I'm somewhat disappointed. I fully understand that the existing databases will remain, they will not disappear. Now we're gonna make one more, spend it. True, it will be central, perhaps easier to turn to, but it will be an additional database to the existing ones. So how about making this life cheaper? Where do we get this cost savings?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U264	Thank you, good Paul! I answered that question and the answer was totally different. The databases that exist today will take the data from the central database in the future. So we have quite a lot of data, but we do not have biometric data that way. And it has two aspects. First of all, the cost is reduced because the data is in one place, not different. And efficiency's growing, too. You can store different data in different databases and update them constantly, but the Estonian state generally tries to avoid it. This is the case, for example, with addresses, car numbers, etc., and so is the plan with biometric data. This is a very rational approach, and because we have the X-Road, it's relatively easy to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U265	No further questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Mr Kingo wishes the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U266	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Here we are discussing a bill that wants to legitimise another collection of data, the collection of certain types of personal data into another database. How many of these databases have we got yet? Dozens and dozens. Each ministry has its own database where different data, including personal data, are collected. Each public office and public authority has its own database, which also collects data on persons depending on the field of activity of the agency or institution. Local authorities also have their own databases, which also contain different personal data. So how many do we need? With the introduction of this draft database called ABIS, these existing databases will not disappear. In reality, they remain parallel. Given that the planned new database ABIS controllers, i.e. users of the national languages, would be the Police and Border Guard Board, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Estonian Forensic Institute, and the processors, i.e. the joint users, the Defence Police Board, the Defence Forces and the Department of Foreign Intelligence, who already have their own databases and sufficient access to the necessary personal data, the real purpose of creating the database ABIS, as planned by this draft, is a legitimate question. The creation of this database will cost taxpayers nearly EUR 15 million. A database for which there is no real need for the reasons given in the draft. However, it is certainly very interesting for an IT company to gain a high level of profit or reward through it. It cannot be ruled out that, in view of the interests of an IT company, this programme, or the database ABIS, was even invented. You remember what happened with the Social Protection Information System (SKAIS2), which cost taxpayers EUR 5 million and could never be introduced. Millions just flew into the wind, maybe more precisely into someone's pocket or balance sheet. I would like to draw attention to the wording of Paragraph 1 (7) (3) of this draft: "The verification of identity is a procedure which is made sure that it is the person he is supposed to be. " Interestingly, it is important to make sure that the person is supposed to be everywhere else. This means that, for example, the document number alone is not enough. I see a clear hypocrisy here, because in the case of electronic voting, it is considered that it is sufficient that someone's ID card is simply logged in, and the authorities concerned do not think that they should make sure that the person whose name the document is issued is still logged in with the ID card. This, too, is a real threat to national security, but it is not a problem that is wanted and denied. The database planned by this draft is not really necessary. Therefore, the Estonian Conservative People's Party does not support this draft and proposes to reject the draft 366. The proposal for rejection has been submitted to the Management Board of the Riigikogu electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U267	There are no more requests for words in the negotiations, I will close the negotiations. The commission has proposed to conclude the first reading, but as you have heard, the EKRE Group has proposed to reject the draft at first reading, and we need to vote it through. Honourable Riigikogu! I will put to the vote before you the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to reject the draft law amending the Act on identity documents initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws 366. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-21_U268	The proposal was supported by 18 members of the Riigikogu, 59 against. The proposal was not supported. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading. This concludes the first reading of Bill 366 and sets the deadline for the tabling of amendments at 5 May at 5.15 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, this has exhausted our agenda today. I wish you strength in other things today. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00. Have a good day.
