ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U1	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Monday session of the 5th working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. There's no call. Please ask the representative of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U2	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] The Government of the Republic is launching three draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Maritime Safety Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure in the proceedings of the draft law. Secondly, the draft Act approving the amendments to the Maritime Labour Code of the International Labour Organisation in 2018. And thirdly, the bill to amend the Law on Maritime Labour. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Health and Labour when these two draft laws are processed in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U3	Dear colleagues, I have adopted three drafts on behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. We're conducting a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U4	60 members of the Riigikogu registered, 41 missing. Now we shall proceed to the adoption of the agenda, starting with the preparation of this vote. Can we go to the vote? Thank you. I am voting on the approval of the agenda for the fifth working week of the VI plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U5	With the result of 59 votes against and no abstentions, the agenda has been confirmed. Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U6	Let's move on to the agenda. The first item on the agenda is an inquiry. It was presented by members of the Riigikogu Urmas Reinsalu, Mikhail Lotman, Priit Sibul, Andres Metsoja, Sven Sester, Raivo Tamm, Üllar Saaremäe, Tarmo Kruusimäe and Heiki Hepner on 31 August 2021. The inquiry submitted is a disorder in the handling of medicines and vaccines by the Health Board and it bears the number 87. Prime Minister Kaja Kallas will answer the question. I ask the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, Urmas Reinsalu, a member of the Riigikogu, to introduce this question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U7	Madam Prime Minister! Honourable representative of the people! The question of public health is extremely important: it is compliance with the requirements for the handling of medicinal products, as well as vaccines. As a symptomatic problem, information has come out to the public that more than €3 million of medicines and vaccines were corrupted. As far as the public is aware, the Agency has already submitted a letter of formal notice to the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Health Board in April that the treatment of medicinal products does not comply with the procedural requirements laid down by law and that there is a risk to public health.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U8	Good waitress, I apologize to you! Honourable members of the Riigikogu, there is a very loud noise in the hall. Please respect the waitress and please respect those who want to listen. I very much ask that these conversations take place not in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, but in the corridors. Thank you very much. Sorry, waitress! Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U9	Now, don't go away from this fight, Mart. The question of the risk to public health has been identified as a result of the analysis and evaluation of the Agency. Both in terms of the destruction of the EUR 3 million vaccines and medicines and, in fact, its wider management, concerning the handling of medicines, compliance, record of transgressions, that the requirements were systematically violated, is a question for the Prime Minister: who, in the opinion of the Prime Minister, is responsible for the violation of the rules in relation to the handling of vaccines and medicines, and what is that responsibility? There was such a very ecumenical view of responsibility on the part of senior government officials that everyone responsible, the different parties involved, is guilty. Indeed, an inquiry has been made before the Director of the Health Board announced his resignation. This is a fact that I objectively put into context. In fact, at the time of the request for information, the information had not been made public or Mr Lanno had taken this step. Secondly, the question to which the Minister for Health has not been able to answer. The Committee on State Budget Control also requested an assessment that, if, over the years, no temperature changes have been documented in the Health Board if they exceed the permitted level, and it is actually known that vaccines and medicines were stored at inappropriate temperatures, it would be good if, in writing, the Minister for Health did not provide this assurance or did not provide written information that these medicines were not a threat to public health, which is certainly important information to the public This will certainly create more trust in society in the handling and proper administration of medicines. So these two fundamental problems have been presented by the inquisitors. Firstly, as regards the systematic infringement of [the infringement] in the Health Board over the years, and it is not about the fact that there is a radiator [of working] or [something like this], but, let's say, the Agency has a comprehensive report, which it presented to the Ministry of Social Affairs, how and as a result of which these facts became possible. And secondly, the handling of these medicines and vaccines, which have not been properly handled, is there any assurance that they have not been treated in any way that there is a risk to public health? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U10	Thank you. I now ask Prime Minister Kaja Kallas to answer the questioning of the Riigikogu Chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U11	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I'll answer the question. "I ask you specifically, by the government, to point out who is responsible for the violation of the rules in relation to the handling of vaccines and medicines, and what is that responsibility? " According to § 26 (1) of the Pharmaceutical Act, medicinal products may be sold and dispensed in bulk only by the holder of the wholesale distribution licence for medicinal products and by the holder of the authorisation for the manufacture of medicinal products. Paragraph 3 of the same section states that the wholesale distribution of medicinal products is considered to be the import, procurement, storage, storage, transport and export of medicinal products with a view to the sale or otherwise dispensing of medicinal products. In cold stores, national immunisation programmes were stored for children and adolescents. It also included vaccines for adults, immunoglobulins and COVID-19 Vaxzevria vaccines and medicines called AstraZeneca vaccine. The current wholesaler licence has been issued by the Agency in March 2010. According to § 44 of the Pharmaceutical Act, the obligations of the wholesaler of the medicinal product are regulated and it is the responsibility of the Health Board, as the licence holder, to ensure that the conditions for the handling of medicinal products comply with the requirements of the Pharmaceutical Act and its legislation and other legislation governing the treatment of medicinal products. It is the responsibility of the Agency as the holder of the licence to implement a quality system that includes, inter alia, response processes and risk management measures. As you yourself said, the Head of the Health Board, Üllar Lanno, took responsibility for this and resigned. The second question: "As rules and requirements have been violated for a long time, how can people be sure that medicines or vaccines that have failed have not been administered over the years? " That's the right question. When I found out about this health department warehouse problem, the first question was exactly the same, that there were no cases where anyone had to have had vaccines or medicines that had not been kept in accordance with the conditions. I was assured that this had not been the case. According to data received from the Health Board, the Agency has retrospectively investigated the logs of all three cold storage rooms since 2018. Based on these, there is no reason to believe that the quality of the vaccines had been affected before the January 2021 incident. The Agency confirms that it was on that Midsummer Day, i.e. Midsummer Day 2021, that the vaccines at a temperature higher than required in the cold rooms of the Central Warehouse of the Health Board could not be used; they were all taken down. Due to variations in the temperature range required, the Health Board consulted the vaccine manufacturer and the Agency on the use of these vaccines and decided that all vaccines and medicinal products that stood in storage while the temperature fluctuated during the summer of this year should be counted as a precautionary measure, despite the fact that a large proportion of these vaccines and medicinal products were still acceptable according to the manufacturer. But as a precaution, to take down fears that they have not been handled properly. Everything was written off to avoid such a threat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U12	Thank you. You have questions too. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U13	Good manager! Prime Minister! You whined down a beautiful answer, but the question remains, who is still responsible. I've been to this heated fridge, and the same night that Üllar Lanno resigned, he talked to the quality manager. This house is a real accident, and the radiators that can't be taken out are just one of the many troubles in this building. My question is, who really is responsible for this shit? Üllar Lanno was talking about how Kohtla-Järve had the same floor heating in the body shed that couldn't be taken out, and the men who cut the bodies were in good tastes and shorts. Same handwriting. But let's take the same health...... withthese vaccines... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Who's still in charge?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U14	Good questioner, your time! Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U15	Thank you. As I said, the head of the Health Board, Üllar Lanno, took responsibility for this incident, he resigned. However, the building built in 2017 in this whole process has had a lot of misconceptions, as the Secretary of State's report acknowledged. There have been mistakes in designing, mistakes in ordering, mistakes in construction, mistakes in building supervision. These errors have already been made a great many times in 2017. If you ask about [the] political responsibility, then in 2017 there was the Minister of Social Affairs, or the Minister responsible for this area, another than he is now. But the head of the Health Board took responsibility for the current situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U16	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U17	Thank you. Prime Minister! First of all, I ask you not to take my question in any way hostile or offensive. I fully understand the enormous burden on your shoulders as Prime Minister and the enormous responsibility you have, being responsible for the future of Estonia, for our descendants, for the survival of the heritage of our ancestors, etc. My question is this: are you aware of the fact that I am asking specifically, simply yes or no, and familiar with these studies, which have also been published in the Western mass media, which clearly show that young men under 20 years of age are four times more exposed to the risks and health risks of the corona vaccine... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U18	Good questioner, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U19	... when the risks of the coronavirus.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U20	Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U21	Thank you. The scientific council at the meeting of the cabinet will introduce us to various studies, and, I can't remember from the head, it had been shown that young men have more pericarditis and myocarditis. I'm gonna look at the doctor and see if I got those concepts right. But first of all, it's treatable, it's not with such consequences as it might be a disease. But I'm not a medically educated person. If you look at the general numbers, in any case, I have not read these studies myself, and I'm based on what scientists are saying and what has been proven by various studies, and that's what they're giving us.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U22	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U23	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good lord! I have a question. You have spoken with conviction on several occasions that this cold scandal or problem was the responsibility of the Head of the Health Board with his resignation. I want to know and understand what your conviction is based on, as the Head of the Health Board originally led the whole [thing]: in the corona crisis, he had certain tasks, then vaccinations, which have moved partly to the health insurance fund. Then you have asked the Secretary of State to resign on the Secretary General of the Ministry of Social Affairs for what exactly was he responsible? I have a question: how reasonable do you think it is by itself that the country has its own refrigerator? So ideological [in thought]. Wouldn't it make much more sense to deal with these contracts and private partners in order to store these medicines?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U24	Thank you. Yeah, I'm in. After all, all these are necessary vaccines stored in private storage, who are wholesalers of the medicinal product, who have long experience in the area, in refrigerators. I can't tell you why in 2017, the decision was made to build a health warehouse at the Health Board. I think one of the reasons may have been that there's some kind of drug security or whatever, that it's under state control. But I agree with you that if the private sector knows this issue, has done it in the long term, meets all the requirements, then the state may rather buy a service from them, and then it is guaranteed, is protected by insurance, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U25	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Kaja Kallas! The information comes only from the press. As far as I am concerned, these medicines had been insured by an insurer and there was some kind of conflict, as I recall, that the insurer found that the policyholder had not fulfilled all the obligations imposed on him. And now, after that, it has been quiet for a long time. I'd like to know what happens next. Has this come to court? If the court finds that the right is an insurance undertaking, that is to say, that there has been a breach of any conditions, does that also mean that the policyholder, in fact, is the State responsible?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U27	Thank you. The Secretary of State has made an in-depth report which has shown that the state has made very many mistakes, as I said before, in ordering, building, designing, operating, etc. If mistakes have been made, then it is clear that insurance can refer to all these errors as a breach of due diligence, which means that liability is lost on insurance. Well, that's clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U28	In the case of inquiries, we have an oral question by law, and this opportunity is for you, Heiki Hepner. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U29	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! We actually know that the [expiration] deadline for many vaccines is about to arrive. Of course, it is important to have final clarity as to why such damage occurred, why such disorder occurred, but this whole process has been quite unmanageable. How do you assess the current situation with regard to vaccines threatened by an expiry date? Is it that we can come back here at the beginning of the new year asking why we have so many vaccines that have been wasted?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U30	Thank you. I do not currently have any specific information on when the deadlines for the delivery of the various vaccines we have ordered will be blocked, so I would not be happy to answer that question, because I simply do not know when it will happen and whether there is a risk that we will not take advantage of them. I am just saying that we have had a debate, for example in the case of the AstraZeneca vaccine, when it was clear that our people no longer wanted it, so that the vaccine would not be wasted, we donated it to third countries. I believe that the prescription periods for vaccines will be kept very clear so that no one goes to waste [because] that we do not take advantage of it or that we cannot help anyone else with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U31	Prime Minister! Thank you, no further questions. I open negotiations and ask Priit Sibula, representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U32	Thank you. In so far as there is only one question [allowed], as provided for by the law, I will [do] the right thing in brief. I remembered [in relation to] what the Prime Minister said or what opinion he had left, that Üllar Lanno, Director-General of the Health Board, was responsible for this crisis or was responsible for his resignation, a summer meeting of the Social Affairs Committee, which included Dr Everau. Then we asked and said the same things. I was quite seriously disturbed by the handling of the crisis by the then Director-General, Lanno, where he began to talk about the Health Board and the problems in the third person there. I also asked how it was possible for the Director General to talk about what is happening in the Health Board constantly in the third person, as if it does not concern him in any way, neither that institution nor that which is happening there. I received something from him that he had previously been accused, contrary to what I said, of speaking too personally and taking full responsibility. He had then made a cardinal change to the crisis and began to talk about the Health Board, just in case, in a third person, which I did not think was very reasonable. In this regard, since it was much earlier when he finally resigned, I am not sure that he understood his responsibility. Or at least in the summer, when we had a meeting, I certainly dare say he didn't understand that responsibility. Perhaps the Prime Minister or someone systematically made it clear to him, but certainly it wasn't his idea of what he would have come up with. The second issue related to insurance, [in which] there was, like, a huge hope that the state would soon receive money, but not really. That was also my question that I have now put to the Prime Minister. In my opinion, what the private sector can do and do should not be dealt with by the state. And I, like the Prime Minister, do not know and do not understand why the country needed its refrigerators or why we are now cleaning it up and fixing it, as it has become clear in the meantime that the private sector is actually doing very well to keep these medicines. So I hope that it will be clear, however, who was responsible and whether these costs will remain such. I also asked Lanno if these medicines had already been in the warehouse of private operators, whether and what costs the State would have incurred then. There was no reasonable answer to the question that he did not know whether private companies had insurance or not. He assumed that private companies would also have insurance. But, well, today we know that the state also had an insurance contract, but unfortunately, that insurance contract didn't include this failure. So the taxpayer was hit, so no one really took any responsibility for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U33	Thank you. There are no further requests, I will close the negotiations and this has been answered. Peter Ernits, do you have a procedure? A microphone for Peter Ernits, please! It'll come, it'll come, we'll wait. You see, now there's a microphone, a red light is on there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U34	Thank you. It's not procedural. I wanted to talk to you after my colleague onion. And it's not procedural.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U35	Got it. I understand, but I can't wait here forever. I asked if there were any more requests for negotiations, I looked at the board, I didn't, I closed the negotiations, and your name came after that, so there's no way I can take that procedure back. What? [[They're talking about the hall.]] Got it. We're definitely going over the system. Sometimes it happens that this system fails. I'm glad the Prime Minister hears that too. Really, a new system could use this hall in the near future, which also requires some investment. However, this has been answered and the first item has been dealt with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U36	We will move on to the second item, which is the question of the Riigikogu members Urmas Reinsalu, Aivar Koka, Helir-Valdor Seederi, Priit Sibula, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Sven Sester and Heiki Hepner. It is presented on 16 June 2021 in the year of the Lord. The request for information is about the introduction of new taxes in relation to the development plan for transport and mobility, which concerns the years 2021 to 2035. An inquiry shall bear the number 85. Taavi Aas, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, responds to the inquiry. I ask the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, Priit Sibula, to introduce this question to the Estonian public. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U37	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, As the President of the Riigikogu rightly said, fortunately the year is the same, in the meantime only four months have passed since this question, and we can already hear the answer, although it is true that Parliament has been discussing this development plan in the meantime. I remember, in the course of my questions, referring to the Minister that he spoke in a very quiet manner, so that he was not able to hear correctly, I could not understand why he spoke so quietly and in such a way. I hope that we will hear a stronger and clearer speech today. Just a reminder to my colleagues. During the discussion on this development plan, it became clear to us that the development plan, of course, does not introduce any tax. However, it became equally clear to us that this development plan creates prerequisites for a wide range of changes, and probably including a number of important tax changes will materialise if the government plans to implement this development plan. It is remembered that it relates to climate issues. As far as we understand this development plan, it is based on the principle that the user pays. These assumptions [are] that when new taxes are introduced, the tax burden will also increase in Estonia. By transforming the new tax and fuel excise system, we believe that the government wants to implement climate policy, which in reality means forcing people to stop using cars. At the same time, it is not too sensible and possible in the context of Estonia, as we live relatively scattered and people need to move. And the use of public transport is relatively difficult for families with children, just as the Chairman of the Riigikogu, or for me or many other Estonian families, where a large number of children are growing. In this connection, I and six of the good colleagues from the Isamaa Group raised questions. The development plan describes as a new term the congestion charge. What this idea means and how and in what cases it will be implemented in Estonia, we want to know from the Minister. Or hopefully the minister's office has told him and made it clear what ideas are there. Then how and to which vehicles will this direct tax be applied in Estonia? A new fuel excise system - what does that really mean? Are we going to change them or raise them? How much reduction in the number of cars do you see if this development plan is to be implemented in a reasonable form? What effect does the introduction of new taxes have on the freedom of movement of people, including families with children, in Estonia? And did you also consider alternative measures to introduce new taxes to achieve climate policy objectives? Why did you still decide to create the preconditions for introducing new taxes? Such modest questions occurred during the summer when we read this development plan. It was adopted by the government on June 10. And as I recalled, the year of the Lord to which the President of the Riigikogu referred is the same request for information that we submitted on 16 June and today, 18 October, we will receive an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U38	Thank you. I now ask the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure of the Riigikogu for an explanation and answers to the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable heirs! I have received the following inquiry. "On 10 June, the Government of the Republic approved the "Roadmap to Transport and Mobility 2021 to 2035," which provides for the introduction of the "User pays" principle through the introduction of a number of new taxes and an increase in the overall tax burden of Estonia. " I am about to say that the development plan certainly does not provide for the introduction of new taxes or for the increase of existing taxes. "With new taxes and changes to the fuel excise system, the Government of the Republic wants to implement climate policy, which in reality also means forcing people to stop using cars. At the same time, a passenger car is not a luxury but an essential means of movement for most people in Estonia, such as people in rural areas, families with children, etc. On the basis of the above, we have the following questions for you pursuant to section 139 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures." First of all: "Temporary tax - what does this idea mean and how and in what cases will it be implemented in Estonia? " I assure you that it has not been decided to apply the congestion tax in Estonia. But to explain that the congestion charge is used in several cities, and in itself it is the entrance fee to the city centre. But I repeat, it is not intended to be implemented on the basis of the development plan. Secondly, "Road-use charges for motor vehicles - how and to which vehicles will this direct tax be applied in Estonia? " Road user charges for heavy goods vehicles already apply in Estonia, but the development plan does not provide for its extension to other types of vehicles. Third: "The new fuel excise system, " what does this idea mean, and is there plans to increase existing excise duties? " There is no plan to increase existing excise duties. On the contrary, the government prolonged the humiliation of excise duties for the following period. But as far as the new system of excise duties on fuel is concerned, just as I explained in the presentation of the development plan that if there is already a significant number of vehicles on alternative fuels on Estonian roads, it is electricity or it is something else, then at some point in Estonia, too, we need to start discussing how to ensure that these vehicles can also drive on decent repaired roads. Such cars are not known to pay excise duties on fuel, which means that in the run we will have less excise duties on fuel. But the road still needs to be kept in order. So you have to start thinking about alternatives. Question 4: How much reduction in the number of cars are you forecasting in the implementation of the new measures? " Although we have not predicted a reduction in the number of cars in any way, the development plan mentions that pollution from transport could be reduced by almost a third. This does not mean a reduction in the number of cars; it may mean the use of alternative fuels on cars. Fifthly, "What effect does the introduction of new taxes have on the freedom of movement of people (including families with children) in Estonia? " If any alternative payment is to be discussed in transport, as good practice suggests, it will certainly be preceded by an impact analysis, and the results of this impact assessment will have to be taken into account in decision-making. However, since the development plan for transport and mobility does not foresee the introduction of new taxes, a similar impact analysis has not been carried out. Question 6: "Did you also consider alternative measures to introduce new taxes to achieve climate policy objectives, and why did you still opt for new taxes? " Once again, I assure you that the development plan for transport and mobility will not introduce any new taxes. Discussions to achieve climate policy objectives are already coming in the near future in connection with the discussions on the "Fit for 55" package, which are the measures to be taken. I can assure you here that, since this proposal, which has come from the Commission, also includes the extension of allowances to the transport sector, I consider it unreasonable myself, because in fact this increase in fossil fuel prices, which should take place through this expansion of quota trade to transport, has actually already taken place on market terms. I do not consider additional taxation reasonable, but these discussions are still ahead of us. We are still ahead of us to shape Estonia's positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U40	Thank you, Minister. However, it seems that there are some questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U41	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. Yes, this heroe, this madness and these great ambitions and, on the other hand, the transport development plan that the government put in place here in June. We spoke today in the Committee on the Environment with one think tank, who will have five meetings and by February will have to provide the government with reasonable starting points for what to do with this green turn, including the transport development plan and the sector. I ask whether the adoption of this development plan for transport and mobility on 10 June, when it was known that the major green turns were ahead and, at the same time, it is not known what makes sense in Estonia as well as these congestion and everything else, and this report is just coming to the government in February, what makes sense at all, are these taxes and, at all, not only transport, were not too hasty?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U42	Thank you. This development plan, which we are talking about today, was launched in 2019 and, therefore, it is not based on these new proposals proposed by the Commission. This development plan has been carried out in the knowledge we had before the Commission put forward new proposals. At the same time, we certainly need a development plan, even in order to mobilise European Union funds, so I consider it important to approve, discuss and approve this development plan. However, after clarity has come about this new climate package, once it has been adopted, which is unlikely to happen before next autumn, according to the form in which it has been adopted, this development plan should also be completed. Yes, in fact, the fact is that, on the one hand, this climate package is late, there are already many changes in market conditions that this package, through the CO2 quota trade, aimed at; these events have already taken place. We all know the rise in energy prices. I do not think it is necessary or reasonable to increase it. On the other hand, this package should also take account of national specificities so as not to try to be ahead of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U43	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U44	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Their fundamental truths in climate policy would follow. As we know, CO2 emissions are still the basis for policy making, etc. CO2 emissions in the European Union are basically 9%, of which Estonian emissions are 0.001%. A week ago, when we were discussing exactly the same subject at ELAK, I asked why, frankly, maybe I'm using a foolish claim, we're looming ourselves when the rest of the world is living a normal life. China announced the opening of mines on the basis of new coal power plants. I'd like to know why we're so-called Ruining ourselves if the rest of the world doesn't come with it. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U45	Thank you. Well, we all know that, in fact, in the long term, I mean the European Union in 2050, China, if I am not mistaken, was 2060, I think Russia also said 2060 trying to reach climate neutrality. This is certainly not just the European Union's idea. On the other hand, I agree with you that it must be sensible. There is no too much rush here, neither energy security nor the livelihood of consumers can be compromised. These efforts that we are making must be those that are reasonable for society, which society understands and with which society can live. If you remember when the European Union said a position or proposed that the countries of the European Union could be climate-neutral in 2050, Estonia did not immediately join it. Estonia said that yes, we have one research in progress, when this research is complete, we will say our decision. This research supported the fact that this is basically possible in 2050, and then Estonia said its position. So I consider it appropriate to do so on the basis of scientific reasons. There's also a third half, which is that there's a shortage of energy in the world right now. Not only has more coal stations been launched in China, but also here in Estonia. Our oil shale plants are working hard. So also in our efforts to achieve these climate goals, we must take into account that there can always be these moments, these situations, these times when energy may be more needed. All of this has to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U46	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U47	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, From your response to the third point, we have actually heard the positive news that the government not only intends to postpone the increase in electricity excise duty, but intends to eliminate it at all, and there is probably no excise duty on hydrogen in the future as well. But my question is that by 2035, I understand, the government sees that we have no cars driving oil-based fuels at all. Why don't you open up what kind of faith or conviction the government has? I do not dare to share such faith or conviction.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U48	Thank you. First of all, I certainly didn't say that we were going to completely eliminate the electric excise duty. The withdrawal of this rate of excise duty was postponed. Now, certainly this development plan and the government's activities do not foresee that in 2035 there will be no cars in Estonia that travel on fossil fuels; no such car is written anywhere. The development plan foresees that by 2035 our aim is to reduce by about a third the pollution that comes from the transport sector. It has not been said anywhere that there are no more cars in Estonia that run on fossil fuels; it is simply not there. Perhaps you have been misled by the aim of the European Union, the goal that by then, fossil fuels will no longer produce cars. This concerns the production of new cars. Whether this objective can be achieved, whether this objective is not achievable, is certainly something I cannot and will not appreciate today from this remote control for the whole of the European Union. But the government of the Republic of Estonia has such a goal that in 2035 there will be no petrol or diesel cars in Estonia, that is certainly not the purpose of the government of the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U49	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U50	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! Got a little scribble, though. It looks like a beautiful vision document. If all the questions or fears or problems that the honourable questioners had in mind and saw you reject, these are unfounded fears, then I can no longer understand how these climate goals are being realised, what would be very sensible if they were not realised, how would this happen? You indicated that everything was done in an understanding that it would be affordable for the taxpayer. When I look at the way the government sees how people are going to be helped at the current price of electricity, I say that this is still a rather low objective, although, of course, it is reasonable that the government has taken any action at all. What form do you see [this]? Is this just a beautiful vision document, or is it going to be realized?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U51	Thank you. As I said, the objectives must be sensible and it makes no sense for us to take on an objective that is either already known in advance that it is impossible, or we know in advance that it is too costly for society. In this sense, these climate goals must also be realistic. Sorry, the other half was still on the question, but I was able to [forget].
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U52	I don't have the chance to give it back. A member of the Riigikogu was crippled and asked if it was a beautiful document or...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U53	I assure you that as Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, I will do everything in my power to ensure that Estonia's goals in achieving climate policy are realistic and based on the fact that the Estonian people should not suffer further for achieving these goals.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U54	Minister, this hopeful tone has no further questions for you. Thank you. Is there a wish to open negotiations now? I'll wait easy. You see, they want me to open negotiations. Please contact the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu's speech chair Heiki Hepner. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U55	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, Indeed, it remained crunchy, and that is why you still had to come to the chair and share this crippling with you a little bit, maybe after that the situation is a little clearer. I wouldn't be discussing all the six points we asked and we got answers to anyway. Indeed, it is understandable that no one will create new taxes with the development plan, but at the same time some perspective and a clear trend in where today's government would like to move will be given. But I would like to come to our third question: the new system of excise duties on fuel, what does this idea mean, and is there plans to increase existing excise duties? The Minister replied that something really should be found because today's fuel use is changing and we no longer have such fuels in use. From this I asked my question: do we really intend to lose the electricity excise duty, because we know that one idea is to get our cars to drive electricity from big cars to small cars, not to mention all kinds of pushers and scooters? And the other alternative, which has been mentioned here, is hydrogen, so that we could definitely use hydrogen in 2030, there will be no excise duty. The logic of my question was based on the fact that no car can only move from the Lord's grace, yet there must be some kind of energy that drives it. And what did the minister say? He said that I have completely misunderstood, that nothing is going to change, almost. While one third are planned to reduce emissions, liquid fuel is not going anywhere. So the fuel excise should still be collected. It could be realised that one third of cars will become more sustainable in terms of fuel use or some other compensation mechanisms will be implemented. In this view, the respondents considered that the answer was missing. I believe that the Minister will now take this opportunity to come to the eloquent and still explain what will become of this fuel excise system, if we use oil-based liquid fuel, well perhaps a little less, we will use electricity that has an excise duty, and one question mark is only hydrogen, which we simply do not have in the market today, but which will either be subject to excise duty or not be introduced. And the gas, let's say, the ordinary compressed gas or the liquefied gas, it also has an excise, it's smaller than the fuel, but it does have an excise. So anyway, what this new fuel excise system means, we didn't get an answer to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U56	Thank you. I ask you, is there any further wish to participate in the negotiations? Members of the Riigikogu do not see this wish, the Minister wishes. Please! I would like to ask the Minister of Economy and Infrastructure, Taavi Aasa, for a speech chair in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! The development plan itself does not create any new fuel excise systems. It's not there. The development plan identifies alternative tax systems for the excise system in force today. As you said, you had quite rightly understood, indeed, if the use of fossil fuels is reduced by a third, then the revenue of excise duties on fuel will also decrease by a third if excise duty is not increased. Consequently, an alternative must be found in the future. Electricity excise duty is not an alternative because the excise duty on electricity is significantly lower than the excise duty on fossil fuels. It is not possible to replace this part with an electric excise, it does not work. And I don't think we want any of us to have the same level of electric excise duty as the fossil fuel excise duty today. It's too high. So we have to find an alternative. But once again, this development plan does not introduce any alternatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U58	Thank you. Yeah, I was fine. Okay, no more calls, I'm closing the negotiations. That is also the answer to this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U59	Dear members of the Riigikogu, now is really a great opportunity, just as we always have on Mondays, that once requests for information have been answered, everyone has the opportunity to register for speaking in a free microphone after a hammer hit. I'm looking forward to active participation. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, please, Peter Ernits!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U60	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, This is now the speech I would have had if the President of the honourable Riigikogu had allowed me when there was talk of responsibility. But I'm taking this opportunity now. I hear the system's going to be replaced, well, I don't know where the money's coming from again. But I am deeply disturbed by this incompetence, by this incompetence. On the same day that Üllar Lanno retired, I spent the evening at the Health Board with Üllar Lanno, who had come back there, and we watched this house, a cluster-cracker house, where there was not only floor heating stupidity, we looked at it with a quality manager, but there were dozens of them. Üllar Lanno and I also spoke in private the same night. Yeah, I'm sorry the Prime Minister isn't here to listen, we talked about what his responsibility is, like people with a human being. He was talking about who was the former director of the Health Board, our good colleague here, now the room is empty. But we also talked about the RKAS, who has a room with the same floor heating, where the [heating] cannot be turned off, built a body cutting [building] in Kohtla-Järve's office. Now those medications that weren't really [only] korona[vaccines], there were a lot of other things, kids, etc., it's 3 million, 4 or 6, in terms of the state budget that we have a big thick package there, it's really in the kitchen. But no one's responsible. There really is a huge amount of things in ATS that you can make up for and that you have to make up for, be it marriage fees, training costs, overtime and everything like that. And there is responsibility, disciplinary responsibility and collective responsibility. But somehow it's not being implemented. The Prime Minister said here that Üllar Lanno left, and that is the end of it for him. Dear Prime Minister, it is not finished! This 3 or 4 or 6 million is written in a chimney, and we'll pay for everything. But that's not fair. In the Special Committee on State Budget Control, I see every week how millions have flown in the case of different ministries again, but no one is responsible. There will be a minister, thank you for your attention, we will try better, we will take note and we will go on. The same, it is deeply disturbing to the sense of justice, not only for me, but also for many others. Says what are you doing here on Toompea? The Prime Minister speaks such a story of sheep. Although, according to the paragraphs, everything is what it is. It's not like Üllar Lanno went. I don't think Üllar Lanno's in charge there, if only in a very small part. In the past, there has been a collective cluster hack, it should be the responsibility of the cluster hack, it should be possible to remove [radiators]. I quote Leon Glikman, who is Leon Glikman, who has said that the rule of law finds the person responsible for such matters either during criminal or administrative proceedings. Where is this criminal or administrative procedure? He's talking about a waste of vaccines. We're looking here with a numb fish face, and that's what the Prime Minister says. It's embarrassing. You can't accept this shit. It must be the responsibility of the official and also of the politician. I stress that Üllar Lanno, in my opinion, was not [responsible], and also on the same night that we discussed for a long time there, many others have a responsibility. He came, he saw what was there, 30 or 40. We talked to the quality manager about what's in this house. Outside the fancy house, but inside you go see! Get these drugs in there that don't fit through the hallway, etc., doors and everything. We're about to go to the National Budget Control Committee to see how the cold stores have been built at the Health Board's house. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] You could come with everyone else. But above all, consider this responsibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U61	Good speaker, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U62	Yeah, that's it, and I'm not gonna say anything else.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-18_U63	Thank you. So, any more calls? No more requests. Thank you. The sitting is adjourned.
