ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the 6th working week Tuesday session of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. As usual, there is an opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. There is no desire to do so, which is why we can go to the presence control. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U2	Currently 81 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present, missing 20.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U3	We can do a good job with today's session. The first item is the second reading of bill No 297 amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. At second reading, Aivar Kokk, Vice-President of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, will make a presentation of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U4	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity was prepared for the second reading in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 15 February. The first reading took place on 16 December, the deadline for amendments, and no amendments were tabled by 31 December. The aim of the draft is to give energy-intensive operators flexibility in qualifying for the excise benefit. The draft provides for flexibility for undertakings applying for an exemption from excise duty and having an authorisation to choose the length of the assessment period for qualifying for the benefit. While the current law provides an opportunity to assess the electrointensity and intensity of gas consumption on the basis of data for the last financial year ending, the draft allows the company to freely choose between one and four consecutive financial years ending for the duration of the evaluation period. At present, nine companies benefit from the electricity excise duty and four companies benefit from the gas excise duty. The extension of the accounting period from one financial year to up to four financial years in assessing the intensity of EEE and gas consumption gives companies greater flexibility in a volatile economic environment and reduces the impact of short-term economic difficulties on the outcome of the assessment. The amendment is in line with the European Union's so-called Energy Taxation Directive, which gives Member States the freedom to decide for themselves how long the calculation period should be used to assess the energy intensity of an undertaking. In the Commission, Marek Uusküla presented the draft and briefly presented the current regulation. He added that at the end of last year the Ministry was approached with the problem that the economic downturn caused by the COVID caused the problem that the added value of the law could prove negative. Simplified: input prices were higher than output, other indicators were as before, negative added value was not taken into account in the development of the current regulation. The Finance Committee, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, made an amendment to the draft which, for reasons of legal clarity, specifies the references to the text of the draft. The Commission unanimously took three decisions: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 23 February, to propose that the second reading be closed and, when the second reading is closed, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 9 March and that a final vote be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U5	Good waitress, for you... Still, still. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U6	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I have a general question. It's been a while since the first reading. How about this now? For example, there are only four beneficiaries of the gas concession; there are very few. Last year, for example, only one gardening company and one pulp producer were added. Is it expected that there will be more of these intensive companies, such as gas-intensive ones, which are currently only four? If there are more, then all these impact analyses will change. Are there more or will there be only four gas-intensive companies that can benefit from this benefit?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U7	Thank you. As we know, the conditional minimum threshold for qualifying is that the level of electrointensity must be 20% or the level of intensity of gas consumption must be 13%. When this law was made, there were a little over 20 companies on that list who could theoretically, if they met these conditions, get that discount. But, yes, last year in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we made one correction (or, as of today, the year before) so that roofing areas would go down there as well. As far as I know, one catfish has come up to it. We know that the entrepreneur who turned to the Ministry of Finance with concern was the best entrepreneur in Estonia in 2019, among the two entrepreneurs who have made this request. They pay a lot of taxes. Tax revenue comes to the state budget. In many European countries, this has been extended: this period is not one year, but it is longer, on the basis of which entrepreneurs can make this decision and it is done through an auditor. The undertaking must be economically viable in order to obtain this advantage at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U8	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U9	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! Would you please disclose who those two companies were who requested? You already called it, so bring out the names.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U10	Thank you for your question. I know the one who's been addressing the Treasury Department. This is Estonian Cell. But I said that two entrepreneurs received the best title in Estonia in 2019, not as applicants. One of them is an applicant, this is Estonian Cell.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U11	No more questions for you. Thank you. Now we're opening negotiations. Can I have a word, please? There aren't any. The Committee on Finance has tabled one amendment to the draft. It's approved. There has also been a suggestion that the second reading should be stopped. We have completed the second reading of Bill 297.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U12	Today's second item is the draft law amending § 15 of the Defence Forces Service Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 324. On behalf of the Government of the Republic, this will be introduced by the Minister of Defence Kalle Laane. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U13	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to wish you a good anniversary of the approaching Republic, so that you can stay in the family circle and celebrate the 103rd anniversary of our Republic of Estonia. But by going to this bill, I say that the purpose of this bill is to create a channel for communicating with the citizen. Since the internet has become a part of everyday life, electronic delivery of documents via the information portal @eesti.ee would certainly be the best solution for the delivery of documents. Why? The reasoning is very simple. At present, practically 25000 invitations and notifications are sent each year to the medical committee or to the military service. In 90% of cases, the document is sent on paper and by post against the signature, in addition to the invitation to attend the training gatherings sent by the Defence Forces. Nearly a quarter of these invitations are not received for various reasons. Let's see what the statistics say. Young people today, 98% of them use the Internet. Surely the opportunity to receive an invitation online is far better than to receive it by letter. However, this also means that the first invitation will go on paper in any case, and all those who wish to continue to receive messages on paper will be able to make it known, and so it will happen. When would the new system be operational? If the honourable Riigikogu agrees with this proposal, it could enter into force on 1 January 2022. The most important thing is to understand when an invitation can be considered to be received. The invitation shall be deemed to have been received after 30 days, taking into account the date of dispatch. Secondly, it is certainly important that a person who wishes to receive invitations electronically could set up a setup so that the message that comes on eesti.ee would give some information either to his personal e-mail or to send an SMS phone. As we live in the world of the Internet, this change will certainly create, once again, a better opportunity to send invitations more effectively to the people needed. I believe that this will certainly affect young people, 17 to 27, to participate more actively in the military service. For starters, I think that's enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U14	You really have the right to think so. Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U15	Thank you. The fact that messages can be made online is undoubtedly very positive. But I have a question about the condition of how the message is deemed to have been received. In the past, a notice was given against a signature, which is clear evidence that a person has actually received the message. Now it's just a plan to send it somewhere, and when it's been 30 days, they're hoping something's happened. Why is that? With all the other messages that I know will be sent out by, say, the police or the courts, they still want a person to at least log in with an ID card when he starts reading that message so he can leave some kind of badge behind. Why isn't this confirmation recommended for this message?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U16	First of all, thank you for your question. I'm more than convinced that if you log in, the trail will be left behind. You can see when someone has read this message or hasn't read it. Indeed, at the moment, there is such a proposal that a document is deemed to have been delivered, which has been sent for 30 days, or roughly one month. That is the proposal. If it can be better tuned, it should definitely be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U17	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U18	Good manager! Good minister! Yeah, it's great what you answered Erki's question, but if, for example, the network is down, it doesn't matter if it's logged in or not. And in critical situations, it can easily happen. There's no place to send it. Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U19	Indeed, in this changing society, we cannot ensure that there is a network at all times. That's when you use other options. As I said, the first announcement is on paper anyway. This requires communication between the Office for Defence Resources and the young person to whom this profession is oriented. This requires close communication between them. It is not in today's changing world that we can create a system that would be 100% guaranteed to function. It has to be flexible.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U20	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U21	Thank you, good vice chairman. Minister, thank you very much. The question is this: do we know how many of our e-mails in eesti.ee have passed on to another e-mail address or regularly use it? Do we have any information on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U22	Thank you. I don't have that information right now, but I'll specify and let you know.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U23	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U24	Thank you very much. Good waitress! If a person does not accidentally use the Internet for 30 days, will the result immediately be a punishment, or how?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U25	Thanks for the question, good Paul. Certainly, the goal is not to punish, but to have people come voluntarily, motivated to meet, or to serve time. The aim is not to punish absolutely; the aim is to motivate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U26	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U27	Good manager! Good waitress! You said if I remember correctly, 98% is on the Internet. 2% is therefore not. How much, how many boys aren't connected to the Internet at all? So you have to multiply that 25,000? How many are there who aren't connected to the Internet at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U28	Thank you, good Peter! Such precise studies have not been carried out. This is a general study that 98% of young people in the 17 to 27 age group use the internet. It's not that open.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U29	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U30	Thank you. In my opinion, if I remember exactly, the correct number for the age group of the students who once touched this Estonian.ee with one finger was twenty percent. But my main question is whether we will not have a constitutional problem here if we treat those who are qualified in the same way, but, for example, tax notices or subpoenas or other national communications, we will send out in a completely different way. I don't mind that we get in close contact with the recruits, and quickly, but why are we treating them differently than all the other citizens?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U31	Thank you for your question and thank you for your clarification. The Ministry of Justice and other ministries have not seen a problem or possible constitutional conflict. Secondly, it certainly requires, if the Riigikogu adopts this amendment to the law, a serious information campaign so that young people can receive this information about how they are informed and not only to young people, but also to the reserve troops. A very serious information campaign has been planned until 1 January 2022 to ensure that young people and all those target groups who need to receive these invitations know how this could happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U32	Oudekki Loone, please! Microphone, please! Oudekki, put the microphone in, please! Oudekki, please put on the mike!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U33	Am I listening now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U34	Now you're hearing it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U35	Very good! I'm gonna help you with a little bit. The explanatory memorandum of the draft law mentions that 36% of the Estonian population is using the Estonian environment. This statistics gives me a little doubt as to whether this is the best way to direct as many people as possible enthusiastically to come to study gatherings and to serve time. Maybe we should start by using this environment so people can use it, people can get used to it. To create a law of this kind that basically says that if this [call] lies somewhere in the basement for 30 days, you've got it... Have you thought that this should be developed stronger first? Could it be that every message would at least be texted to you, or that it would be more effective, so that the person could actually receive the message? At the moment, I still get the impression that the state says it's a public basement where everyone can go, and in the back of this basement, there's an invitation from your Defence Forces. I don't see how this is just going to improve the situation right now. Maybe you can explain it a little bit more.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U36	First of all, I think that eesti.ee is not a basement. Secondly, as I introduced it, the internet is a part of our daily lives and more and more young people are there. In order for young people to know what it is like to be called for military service, to call for reservations, for this purpose, as I said earlier, we would essentially have at least six months and a very serious information campaign is planned for these target groups. We can discuss whether an egg is before a chicken or a chicken is before an egg is a question of this starting point.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U37	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U38	Electronic information is definitely the right direction. I agree that communication can be done much better than today. But you also said that the first announcement goes on paper anyway. However, the draft states that when electronic communications are introduced, there will be huge financial savings. Where will the savings come from when two channels will be used in parallel: paper notification and electronic notification? Where is this place of austerity?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U39	First of all, it's certainly a point of austerity that if you re-invite, re-invoicing, there will be some savings. Which is exactly what it is, I can't tell you right now, but I'm sure the Department of Defense has made some calculations about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U40	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U41	Thank you. Is the Defence Forces confident that the campaign will be so strong that the benefits will immediately be multiple? So, on the one hand, it makes it easier for the Defence Forces to run things, and, on the other hand, there is hope, if we do so very seriously, that there will be a shift in the knowledge of the generations, and that the Internet will become an even more forceful part of our daily life when it comes to matters of state. Are you guys doing this so seriously?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U42	Thank you, Professor Black, for the question. I just visited the Defense Resources Department yesterday. We had a very serious discussion on how to better motivate young people to participate in military service and their national defence duty. While they were very clear that this was certainly one of the ways that motivate people to understand how or how they should carry out their duties.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U43	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U44	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, good luck in the job. But this discussion gives the impression that young men and women in Estonia are hiding somewhere in the basement and are not very keen to serve the state of Estonia, to fulfil their civic duty. How about a little comment on that? In my opinion, the statistics show that civic duty is increasingly being respected and wanted to do so. It is known that we have our own country, and it must also be held responsible for defending it. That's one half of the question. And the other side: when you were at the Defence Resources Board yesterday, did you talk a little bit about the health records and just so that we could get young healthy people to a proper position? This has rather been a more complex problem, on which the ministries, in combination, cannot find a solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U45	Thank you, good Andres, for a question and a comment. Indeed, over 54% of young people are aware and willing to volunteer for military service. This percentage has increased every year, i.e. understanding is improving, desire and motivation are increasing. Perhaps I will also bring such a number as to show that a study among the conscripts and conscripts shows that the internet is considered the preferred channel of communication with the Defence Resources Board before going into military service. By e-mail, 78% of those interviewed would prefer to communicate with the Defence Resources Board. As far as health data is concerned, it is certainly one of the debates on how this should be, whether a person voluntarily entering the service will open up his or her health data to the state or whether the state will impose certain obligations on a young person, thereby also taking responsibility when that young person is in the service of the state. But how can he accept this responsibility if he or she does not have a medical record if he or she does not know what his or her condition is? My personal view is that if the state imposes an obligation, it must take responsibility. But he can take responsibility if he clearly knows what he has to take responsibility for. Here, my position is a little different than that of the Ministry of Social Affairs. After all, we have discussed this issue before. Having previously been a member of the National Defence Commission, I do remember that the members of the National Defence Committee's position was that if the state commits itself, it would have to take responsibility. You can take responsibility if he knows what he's taking it for.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U46	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U47	Thank you. Good minister! I think digital communication is a very good idea in itself. Of course, society is moving in this direction. But I don't share your optimism. Of the 78% you just called the conscripts, I would dare to take a softer poison here, most of them have never been to eesti.ee at all, because they had no need for it. Shouldn't it be perhaps the first invitation that they go to see their eesti.ee, even in the form of a text message? In reply, they mentioned that they wanted communication by e-mail, but not going to eesti.ee, no one would look at that mailbox there. Shouldn't we build this bridge here first so they can go there?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U48	Thank you, good Imre! Really, you also improved that the e-mail mediation was about these 78% of respondents, not about eesti.ee in particular. This is a job to be dealt with by the Department of Defence Resources and the Department of Defence Forces to share information. However, if you are of the opinion that this should certainly be different, then it is always possible to make an amendment to the draft. We can discuss this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U49	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U50	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Kalle! I already wished you strength in a new position of responsibility at the Commission. Now I do the same in front of the great hall and the Estonian people. As soon as the ID card came out, basically at the beginning of the 2000s, we saw the need for a digital calling and mobilisation system next to the paper system so that both systems would survive and both would be used in different situations. It is good that now we have taken a step forward in this direction. It's a line, there's no question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U51	Thank you, good Leo, for your wishes. We can certainly make Estonia safer in cooperation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U52	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U53	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, a comment. It will certainly also play a major role in the national defence education course of upper secondary schools and vocational training institutions in order to teach young people how to communicate with the state portal before they receive invitations from the Defence Forces. But my question, I'm sorry if I have this... [[We're breaking up.]] How much of the invitations are not delivered or, at least, it is claimed that these invitations have not been received?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U54	Thank you, good Madis, for your comment first! It is certainly an important observation that this kind of communication is already taking place in national defence teaching classes. This gives a much clearer picture of how information can be obtained. I am pleased to congratulate the authors of the national defence textbook at the moment. I had a chance to read it myself, and it was my nightstand book for weeks, in the sense that I would be smarter in this area. It is really very nicely structured, simple and concrete. But now, Madis, to your question. Nearly a quarter of those invited to attend school gatherings in the past years did not receive the invitation. Nearly a quarter! In 2019, this number, the last number we have, was 21.7%.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U55	Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U56	Thank you, good manager. Good performer! I want to join the previous speaker in saying that this is still about upbringing and also about national defence courses that are in schools. I conducted a study at home, asked a young man who might have to wait for such an invitation next year. He has not watched his eesti.ee e-mail account in his life. Perhaps it is a place of thought to give this information in national defence courses where young men and girls are prepared to watch it. But, of course, I would like to congratulate on the initiative of dealing with young people, because there are not many in our Chamber who have fulfilled the obligation of national defence before the country either.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U57	Thank you, good Marko, for that comment. I absolutely agree that this really is a whole circle, different notifications from different ages. It's not just that we're sending some kind of e-mail at some point.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U58	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! With such a clear vision and message, the Minister was last seen during the previous coalition. In any case, I would like to wish for strength first, because I think you have all the tools and experience in this job. It is not a question, rather a reflection or an attempt to find help. All these estimates of delivery and summoning, whether this information arrives, are still based on the data we have gathered during the peacetime. If there is a crisis or something bigger, the confusion will be greater, the technical possibilities will be more disrupted. Is there any way to think about involving something at a lower level, such as local authorities? In the old days, for example, messengers were used, and there was a fallback. Something like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U60	Thank you, good Alar, especially for those warm words. I think that together, as a whole, the Riigikogu and the government, we can make all these things better. Yeah, we're kind of like all the time thinking that the Internet is the everyday part of society, which it is in the same way. But the other way around, it's a very simple thing that when the power goes out, the Internet disappears, but the information has to spread somehow. This is certainly one of the points of how we can deliver messages in a crisis situation, how we can bring people together, in which places. Today, when the second wave of the pandemic is on the rise and action in times of crisis is even more and more important than ever, we must be ready for all these things. Luckily today we have the internet, today we have electricity. This, let's say this, the period of study, let's call it this, could be that we could make really smarter decisions about the future and think about these back doors, about the backways that would still help us during the extremely serious crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U61	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U62	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, You just mentioned that a quarter have not received this invitation. I do not think that it can be assumed immediately that they are certainly deniability too; some of them have indeed not received the invitation. If we now ask them or hope that they will go to eesti.ee, where they have never been, as the home survey of one of the previous speakers revealed, would it not be wise, for example, to send out the first message with SMS so that they would go to see eesti.ee at all? Right now, during the COVID, there's a pretty good system of notifications, you'll be informed that you need to go to rehearsal. It's coming for you with an automatic text message. Why can't it be exactly the same invitation with a text message to go and see the invitation on eesti.ee?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U63	Thanks for the offer. Let's discuss this. Maybe so.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U64	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U65	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, We are the kind of people who always want to compare themselves with their neighbours and their distant colleagues. Sometimes we dream of being among the first five, on another level we're sad when we're among the last five. When we talk about this specific level, Kalle, are we pioneers, predecessors, or are there a similar system in place in some countries, and if so, how well have they done?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U66	Honourable Chairman of the Commission! I owe you an answer, but I'll be sure to let you know.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U67	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U68	Minister, thank you very much. I also have to thank and say good words. I'm sure there's good cooperation with you. The same issue of defensive tasks for border guards that we have discussed and the problem of filling gaps must be resolved. This problem, too, is very serious and I certainly support these things to be settled. There may be so much to ask. That's what we've been talking about here. How can it still lead to the use of all other options, not just one, electronic? We have a lot of people living in places where there's no Internet at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U69	Thank you, good Riho, for your comment. I agree that we must be very flexible in our country, in a country the size of Estonia, to find solutions to achieve our goals. This is one of the key issues of our country's performance and success.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U70	Peter Rahnel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U71	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. I believe that there should certainly be an opportunity to send [calls] digitally, but I also know from the experience of my family that this digital or e-mail often does not reach the addressee. Would it not make sense, however, at first to duplicate it with paper or SMS and, after all, to establish a transitional period over some years in order to ensure that this transitional period is sufficient?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U72	Thanks for the offer. Let's discuss this. Today, such a bill has been put at first reading. If there are good suggestions on how to make it better, then this is the Riigikogu's opportunity to do all things better.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U73	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U74	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good Kalle, come to the law. Today, it is the duty of the Defence Forces to inform the relevant authorities about changes in their place of residence or means of communication, such as telephone numbers. How is this obligation fulfilled, and how is this reflected in the larger picture of the notification?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U75	Thank you, good Madis, for such a guiding question. This is certainly one of the ways to give a clearer picture in the context of SMS reporting. I can't answer you right now, but I'll make it clear and let you know.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U76	Good Minister, there are no more questions from members of the Riigikogu for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U77	Thank you. Hello, everyone!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U78	Now we have the opportunity to hear the opinion of the National Defence Committee on the draft. This is what Mati Raidma will introduce us to.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U79	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary of Defense! First reading of the Bill 324 of Amendment of § 15 of the Defence Forces Service Act. The Government of the Republic initiated the draft on 8 February. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before the first reading, including at its meeting on 16 February. Mr Kalle Laanet, Minister of Defence and Mr Anu Rannaveski, Head of the Defence Service Department of the Ministry of Defence, took part in this session as representatives of the initiator of the draft. The general principle of the draft. As the Minister of Defence described in his thorough presentation and answers to questions, the draft amends the regulation on the service of documents to the members of the Defence Forces, who are members of the professions and persons in reserve, so that the data can become digital instead of obtaining it on paper. At the reasoned request of a defence officer or for any other consideration by the originator of the document, documents containing the obligation of national defence may also be served via other channels or by other means, such as mail. With the consent of the initiator of the draft act and on the basis of § 98 (1) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, the National Defence Committee submitted the draft as amended. The amendment is to § 15 of the Defence Forces Service Act, which the draft alone amends. This is a technical specification of the norm. The amendment is in line with the rules of the Riigikogu and the Government of the Republic of Estonia on standard techniques, which provide that if the draft amends only one section of the law, the number of the section may be given in the title. The Commission considered that the new explanatory memorandum on the draft, as amended, was not submitted because it was merely a technical specification of the title of the draft, and that the explanatory memorandum on the draft initiated, together with the annexes, would remain valid at first reading. Procedural decisions of the Commission. At the meeting on 16 February of this year, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to submit the draft under discussion to the first reading as amended with the consent of the initiator and to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft be included on the agenda of today's sitting of the Riigikogu for the first reading. In addition, the Commission decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu that the first reading of the draft be terminated and to appoint the speaker to act as rapporteur for the committee. The deadline for submitting amendments to the draft bill would be 5.15 p.m. on 10 March. Thank you! Congratulations, too, on our country's coming birthday!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U80	Good Mati Raidma, no questions for your colleagues. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. Does anyone want to speak on behalf of the group? Oudekki Loone, please, for the middle fraction!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U81	Hi! And thank you all for this interesting debate. Indeed, if you look at this bill in itself, it will, of course, continue to develop the digital state of Estonia by simplifying the work of the Defence Resources Board, by seeking out all potential candidates, those who are abroad, those who are not constantly living in one place, or, ultimately, those who avoid the duty of the Defence Forces. The state communicates with the person through the state portal, wherever you want. Saving your own time, saving official time. At the same time, some communication on paper is retained. Seems reasonable in itself. But the question is always in the details, as came out of our debate. The biggest problem with this draft and its approach is that it is a little forgotten that the services of the state must be comfortable and simple, especially for the citizen. If our question is why people do not receive the messages, the current bill asks for the position of the state official: how can I be sure to say that these messages have been received? And there's a solution: we put them in one of the web portals. If they've been on that portal for 30 days, because everyone's using the Internet these days, they've gotten that message somehow. Well, on paper, yes, but are we actually improving the situation and improving the receipt of invitations? For example, the question of people mentioned in the same draft explanatory memorandum who have gone abroad to university. Although they have received national defence education at school and are likely to have even better digital literacy than average, they have still forgotten to ask for an extension. Hey, they're gonna forget to look at the portal! The real problem that people are not getting the messages is the real problem that has been mentioned that the reports of educational gatherings are not being received in 20-30% of cases, this law simply does not change. That is why it is very important that we correct the bill in order for people to be asked if this message has reached them. The point of giving a notice against a signature is not enough to give the postmen a job, although certainly so, but to get real feedback from a person on whether he knows that the country has now been communicating with him. Among other things, this is an example of all kinds of other communications, but it is only one part of our digital state. Therefore, it is important to make sure that this bird, this message, the information that a person gives to the country in return: yes, I know. In addition, in order to ensure that the eesti.ee portal is not used by 35% of people, but by 89%, as in the case of Denmark chosen for comparison [same portal], the digital state in general needs to be improved and further developed in such a way that it also responds to young people's habits, so that it is good and easy for ordinary citizens first, and it responds to the logic that is in all other programmes they normally use. Not to mention the problems that letters passed on from eesti.ee, when a person has said that yes, I want to communicate, remain in the spam filter because they put links or words that simply do not pass through it. Not to mention that we could connect this environment to a mobile phone and people would receive SMS notification: you have been invited or there is a study gathering or there are other questions of this kind. Not to mention that both today and in the future the country must remain in the analogue version, the obligation to communicate personally on paper in the interests of the 10% who may have a very enthusiastic military service, but he does not use the Internet, he cannot use the Internet. If we still have this analogue, this paper, this regular communication, in any crisis situation, if, for example, the power goes out, we can take this system and expand it to a big level right now. Therefore, the Centre Party in itself broadly supports this draft, of course, and supports progress, but we must definitely work on it. It should be developed in Parliament precisely so that it actually solves the problem, that our young people get the invitations and that it is convenient for the citizen to receive it and to meet his needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U82	If the political groups do not have any more requests to speak, the minister would like to say a few words. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U83	Thank you, good manager. Yeah, I'm going to specify a few things. The chairman of the good committee quickly reminded me that we are the most honourable second in our innovative approach. Denmark was the first to apply electronic invitations, so in fact, such a step has already taken place. Point two is that we are somehow focused solely on invitations and professional orientation. In fact, our aim should be to involve young people as a whole in a more similar information space from a national defence point of view and from a security point of view at all. It is not just a professional approach, it is more communication, and the more communication young people want to see through the Internet and e-calls. The third thing I wanted to say is that these young people, and not only young people, but also reserveists who do not have the opportunity to receive the invitation electronically or who do not want it, can you say that please send me the invitation on paper? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U84	We're done negotiating. The commission has proposed that the first reading be closed. The first reading is closed and I will set the deadline for the amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 10 March.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U85	The third item on today's agenda is the draft law amending the Financial Supervision Authority Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws 326. On behalf of the Government of the Republic, this will be introduced by the Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U86	Thank you, good manager. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! You have before you the draft law 326 - the Financial Supervision Authority Act and the law amending other laws - the content of which is the transposition of the European Union Directive. In particular, the aim of this directive has been to clarify the competences of the ESAs. The start of the changes to be made, if that is the case, dates back to 2019 when it was agreed at European Union level that the competences of the ESAs should be clarified in certain areas. The authorities we are talking about are the European Banking Authority, the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority and the European Securities and Markets Authority. Changes. Firstly, the European Securities and Markets Authority will monitor the reporting services providers in the future. What I am going to say is that no reporting service providers have been established in Estonia. This means that we have to transpose this amendment into our law, but there is actually no impact on us in terms of substance at national level. There are no such reporting bodies in the nearest countries either. Perhaps just to clarify that the best known reporting institutions are, for example, Bloomberg Data Reporting Services Limited, and also London Stock Exchange, just to understand what we are talking about. Their services are also used by Estonian investment companies. Secondly, insurance enhances cross-border financial supervision as well as the exchange of information. The possibility will also be given to the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority to set up cooperation platforms, which are essentially intended for the exchange of information where necessary. If there is a risk that there is a need to protect insurance customers, the Estonian Financial Supervision Authority will also have the opportunity to propose the creation of a cooperation platform. In addition, the Financial Supervision Authority is required to inform the Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority if the insurer wishes to use an internal model for the calculation of capital requirements. At the moment, no one in Estonia is using it, but of course it cannot be ruled out that there will ever be a need for it and an interest in it in the future. Perhaps the last amendment is that, under the same agreement referred to in 2019, the European Banking Authority was given a leading, coordinating and supervisory role at European Union level in the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. These rights are enshrined in the EU Regulation. The draft law specifically refers to the European Banking Authority, instead of the European Supervisory Authorities, in the AML/CFT Act. The two amendments, which are not directly attributable to the directive, but which are contained in the draft, concern the need to define the Chancellor of Justice at law level as a person with a national background within the meaning of the AML/CFT Act. It also provides that obligated parties may, inter alia, exchange information in relation to the implementation of international sanctions. There are no or no obligations on market participants in this draft. The impact will be on the activities of the Financial Supervision Authority, but it will also be minimal, so that there will be no increase in administrative burden with this draft. Thank you. I would ask you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U87	Good Minister, there is at least one question for you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U88	Good manager and good minister! I look at these effects: there is no economic impact, the impact on insurers is minimal, rather theoretical, the impact on reporting service providers is also almost non-existent, the impact on customers is also more symbolic, etc. The other effects aren't going to read them. My question is, is this the fine-tuning bill? Are we doing fine-tuning?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U89	Thank you, good questioner! Surely you will also have the opportunity to put this question to the Minister for Finance of the previous government, who was the minister at the time when the agreement was concluded at European Union level. The content of this draft, as I said in the introduction, is, above all, a clarification of the competences of the supervisory authorities at European Union level. That is why it is precisely the transposition of such clarifications into our laws that is necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U90	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U91	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My attention was drawn to this change concerning the Chancellor of Justice. It is defined as a person with a national background within the meaning of the AML/CFT Act. What would that mean in practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U92	In practice, this means that since it is the competence of the Chancellor of Justice, it must also be regulated separately at the level of the law, although at lower levels the Chancellor of Justice is already treated as a person with such a background. It is simply because of the law and the role of Chancellor of Justice that this clarification must also be introduced into the law. In substance, it does not bring any change.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U93	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U94	Yeah, it's about the same thing Urve asked. I'm reading from the influence that the bill doesn't influence the Chancellor of Justice's actions. It is said here in Estonian that the bill does not affect the activities of the Chancellor of Justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U95	Literally [on the basis of the draft] was also said what I was replying to Urve Tiidu at the moment, that the content of the regulation, which is laid down by law, is a list of Estonian posts, whose performers are considered to be persons of state background. These include the Chancellor of Justice, at the level of the Regulation. But it is quite simply correct because it is the Chancellor of Justice that it is defined not only at the level of the regulation, but also in the law there is a corresponding indication that the Chancellor of Justice is considered to be a person of national background. There is no change in substance, as I answered the question of Urve Tiidus.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U96	No more questions for you. Thank you very much. Now we have to hear the presentation by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. This is done by Erki Savisaar, Chairman of the Monetary Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U97	The Commission discussed the draft, including at its meeting on 15 February. The draft was presented by the Minister of Finance, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, as the representative of the initiators. He also gave the Commission the same comprehensive overview of the draft as he did a moment ago in this Chamber. I wouldn't say it again. The Commission did not raise any questions. It was decided (consensually) to close the first reading and to set the deadline for amendments on Wednesday 10 March at 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-23_U98	Thank you, Erki Savisaar! Do the political groups want to start negotiations? That's not what you want. We have also negotiated. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 326. The first reading is closed and the deadline for amendments, as you have heard, is proposed to be fixed at 5.15 p.m. on 10 March. It's the way it's meant to be. Ladies and gentlemen, We have been well on today's agenda. I wish you a very beautiful coming Republic birthday! As is customary this year, I recommend monitoring through the mass media all the transfers offered to us on the anniversary of the Republic and maintaining health, distance and keeping each other safe. Ladies and gentlemen, I will see you Thursday.
