ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We will begin the second Tuesday session of the VI plenary session. Now is the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Jevgeni Ossinovski. I took a load break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Socialists, there are two drafts to be delivered. When we were talking about electricity yesterday, today we're talking about bicycles, and not just that. In particular, [we have] two proposals. The first is the draft law amending the Traffic Act. The content of this draft is a two-point draft: that we have a speed limit not 25 kilometres per hour, but 10 kilometres per hour on the sidewalk and on the road. Secondly, to give the local government the right to bring it down from 25 kilometres per hour, if necessary in view of the traffic situation, on the road which is a bicycle and bicycle route together, if there is a bicycle mark and a pedestrian sign, where they have not been allocated. The reason is obvious. Anyone who has moved on foot in the last year, especially children, on the pavements and green areas of different Estonian cities, has certainly been exposed to situations where the safety of both themselves and children has clearly been at risk. That's what's happened to me. We had a debate on traffic law here recently, Mr Tõud dragged this issue, and then it was actually addressed that there was too much 25 kilometres per hour, but these changes were not made. I think now is the time. More vulnerable, as they are called, movers, elderly people and children alike, feel threatened. But the city space must be arranged in such a way that they too, the most vulnerable, can safely travel. So, in the case of this draft, we are hoping for your support and quick procedure so that we have reasonable rules before the next season of electric drives. The second draft is a draft decision of the Riigikogu, making a proposal to the government, and the content of this proposal is that the government will find money in the budget for next year in order to support local authorities in setting up and implementing wheel strategies. By the way, there was such a point in the previous government programme that it should be done, but, unfortunately, it was not realised, mostly. But that's what we need. We really need to create this economic incentive for local authorities to systematically think about light traffic infrastructure, or mainly bike roads, and to have the necessary purse in the state budget to implement them. And the reason. You could say local, let the locals handle it. Well, on the one hand, on the other hand, since we still want Estonian cities to have a proper wheel infrastructure, it is reasonable for the state to provide this support. And, of course, it is also the responsibility of the state to reduce emissions in the transport sector. This is the responsibility of the State, which is why the State could provide this support. Thank you! The drafts have been submitted digitally to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U3	Thank you! No further drafts and enquiries are recommended, so I have adopted two drafts. Their further processing, as usual, will be decided by the Board in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Now, presence control, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U4	82 members of the Riigikogu registered.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U5	Let's go to today's agenda. On today's agenda, we have one point, which is the Chancellor of Justice's 2020-2021. An overview of the activities carried out in 2005. Let me remind you how we deal with this point. First, the Chancellor of Justice has a presentation by Ülle Madise for up to 20 minutes, then every member of the Riigikogu has the opportunity to ask a question and only the representatives of the political groups can speak in the negotiations. That's the order we're gonna move on. It is now an honor to invite Chancellor Ülle Madise to the chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! From 1 September 2020 to 31 August 2021, the Chancellor of Justice received a total of over 5 000 different types of referrals, complaints, applications. There were more than 3,000 things that needed to be resolved, or indeed the concerns that [solving] is in our power. Thus, the volume of work increased by one fifth over the year, and it is a pleasure to report that in six years the volume of work has doubled. As always, if we can, we will try to help the fellow citizen who trusted us with our concerns and use the shortest rightful way to do so. No one achieves anything in this world alone, and that is why I thank you, honourable members of the Riigikogu, as well as members of the previous and current government, state and local government officials, for all the numerous cases where together we have really been able to resolve our concerns and avoid a situation where a person feels that his own country does not care about him. It is perhaps our common goal that Estonia should be the best place to live, which also means from the point of view of our administration that life must always follow a constitution that requires freedom, responsibility and reasonableness, and even one person caught between the gears is too much. Thank you, good Riigikogu, for the fact that in many cases the legal provisions that were the source of man's insecurity or unfair treatment were corrected. To give just a few examples, psychiatric assistance was available to young people, especially in tragic cases. Safety improved in school children's tour buses. Victims of misdemeanour were also granted more rights, and they had the opportunity to see the file themselves in order to file a claim for damages, for example in the event of a traffic accident. These are just a few examples. This good cooperation has also taken place in the year of the review that has just begun, and I am thinking here of the discussions in the Committee on Social Affairs. Looking at all these thousands of complaints, we are the first to ask whether the problem could be caused by an illegal constitutional rule in the law or by a government, a minister or a local government regulation. This is the standard we found most in local government regulations last year. Again, by giving only a few examples, in many cases the city or rural municipality, for example, did not notice that in 2019 the law changed and it was forgotten to provide support for children with disabilities under three years of age, more specifically for their parents. These cases were numerous, and everyone started to correct the situation. The new phenomenon was own-initiative burdens and taxes. For example, the introduction of a detailed plan requires a certain amount to be paid to the local budget as a social infrastructure fee in some areas. In itself, it may be the right thing to do. This is not only about detailed planning and development, but also about paying the local community to tolerate the factory, for example. Perhaps it is quite reasonable that the developer should be given a financial obligation and that the local community will decide on the use of this money itself. You're gonna build a polluting factory, but we're gonna do it in return, two and three. That makes perfect sense. But this would be where the Riigikogu should create such a local tax or charge option. The debate is still ongoing. All I want to say here is that it is not unnecessary to insist on legality. Only the rule of law creates the prerequisites for a healthy, reliable economic environment, and in the same way it creates the prerequisite for people's security. If the norm is constitutional, and most of the time it is, then it may be a mistake to work as an official. I can't get over or around PRIA this time either. Unfortunately, the extreme regularity of the PRIA in dealing with matters, in their view lack of goodwill, damage and frustration for the rural population. In several cases, we found that illegal claims were indeed being made, people being illegally deprived of support. It has also been pointed out by the Court that it is quite often impossible for a small farmer to understand why his support is being recovered. Too often we see that the official of the agency or inspection, who should apply the law, has not made the vital facts clear to himself. He's not trying to solve a problem, he's trying to do something. This is partly due to long-term mismanagement, which tends to discourage discretion, risk drive, but probably also because of congestion. We have seen that when you take a person's concern at heart, focus on the core of the problem and try to solve it, you can ultimately save even a resource. I will give an example of last year's review, but again: there were hundreds of such examples, though not in the same area. A person needs noise-free space because of his or her state of health. Really. Probably none of us can imagine it, but he has a diagnosis that requires it. If the local government becomes aware of this need and the person himself does not have the money to build a room with such noise barriers, then the local community must help. And now that this person is being recommended to have one apartment after another, one of the neighbors partying, the other is the drunkards, and the third is the trampoline of a regular apartment building, it turns out that the heart of this person's problem has not been deepened at all. And when it finally became clear that this person needed an adapted dwelling, adjustments were made, the person got the space he needed. All the intermediate business was simply the cost of the taxpayer's resources and the life force of this particular person. Systemic errors succeeded in correcting the right number. For example, there is now a guide concerning the opening of packages in customs. In the past, a parcel was taken from the postal service, opened in customs, and a package that was clearly opened and snatched reached the person. No one could tell who did it. There is now a specific guide: the opening of the package at customs will be recorded and the reasons for the situation will be verifiable. Once again, thank you to those who changed their work placements accordingly. From the vital examples that give rise to much resentment and distrust of the state, I can also give you this example. Again, it describes some sort of long-term mismanagement. The gravel road was paved very well. But the former exits to the parcels that were on that road were eliminated. Of course, people complained, the reasons were formal. In conclusion, the possibility of discretion was provided for in the Ministerial Order, but was not intended to be exercised. It had to be clarified that changing the road surface does not mean that exits should be banned. Sounds funny, but it's not. Dear Riigikogu, your decision has been made by the Chancellor of Justice for the second year as the supervisor and promoter of the rights of persons with disabilities. Everyone knows that there is still the right thing to do, but it is also good to see what has improved considerably. This knowledge that all our buildings and public spaces should be safe and accessible to all those who find it difficult to move, we are not only talking about people in wheelchairs here, but actually the elderly, the pram pushers, have, fortunately, arrived much better than before. For example, new bus procurements are already being carried out on low-bottom buses, as are platforms and stops, and this is a very good development. Unfortunately, not everywhere and not always. Where we see a mistake, we have to fix it. The good thing is that the Tallinn University of Technology has completed the titer software, which quickly turns oral speech into subtitles. The fact that people with hearing loss must also be part of life, and especially national events, is no longer news. I dare say that as a favor to our colleagues. We have received the first description translation for the feature film. But when the people were registered for vaccination, the blind were forgotten again. They did not have the possibility of digitally registering for vaccination. Again, it had to be remembered that every time we create such solutions, the blind must also be taken into account. All the more so since Estonia has a number of public services that can no longer be used without the Internet. One part of our work is visits to psychiatric hospitals, prisons, nursing homes. The situation has gradually improved in them too over the years, but much is still wrong. Starting from nursing homes, which we have about 200 and where there are well over 13,000 people, the shortage of staff, very low wage levels, often also the lack of the required training, is something that the Estonian state should not afford. At the same time, there are many very dedicated people at work in nursing homes, so almost every inspection report we can start with the fact that customers praise that they now have more opportunities to spend their time meaningfully, allow the garden to be cultivated, has circles of interest, staff is friendly. At the same time, however, there is still little room, and for people who need care activities that are inherently hidden from the outside eye, this is often not provided in the absence of space. In this case, human dignity suffers greatly. There's less good news than prisons. I merely mention that video meetings with loved ones are also allowed during a pandemic in Tartu Prison, for example. At the same time, there is clearly an unacceptable practice in which a child who visits his or her parent needs to be taken naked in search. This is obviously a violation of international principles, a violation of the Estonian Constitution and totally unacceptable. It is not necessary to stress in this Chamber that inmates generally come out of prison, and it is good that when they come out, they do not go back to elusive crime, they have a family, preferably a job, they are freed from addictions and the inability to control their anger. Honourable representative of the people! In the last year of the review, it was often necessary to make it clear that the Chancellor of Justice would have to rely on the Constitution and the law even during the most difficult crisis. This came and must also be explained in a strange way to those who have always firmly shared national legal bases. In all cases, even during a pandemic, restrictions and deprivation of liberty must be justified in accordance with our constitution, not the other way round. It is during a pandemic that simple solutions tend to come to mind in a hurry, and that is when the people themselves tend to demand a hard hand and a violation of fundamental rights. There has been a great deal of explaining the method of law, and once again things have turned around. If, in the past, legal scientists were accused of not looking at the results of life and other fields of science, then now very many people tend to say that the legal scientist's thing is to peck dry standards. No, it's not. Law is not and must not be a formal norm investigation. When assessing the constitutionality of fundamental rights restrictions, it is always necessary to clarify the facts, to clarify the vital facts, to examine the research results of different fields, and to involve experts in other areas of life. And then logical reasoning leads to an assessment of the constitutionality of one or the other. Very much has been said that according to the Constitution, the state is run by the Riigikogu. This concerns not only state budget issues, but also the establishment of an entrepreneurial environment, for example. If, too often, this framework, in which businesses should operate in conditions of fair competition, moves to a minister's regulation instead of a law, or to a code of conduct, it does not ensure a good economic environment. It would be against the Constitution anyway, because according to the Estonian Constitution, all important matters must be decided by the Riigikogu. On several occasions, we have noticed that companies themselves would also like to slide the provisions defining the conditions of competition away from the law. Maybe very well-willed, but maybe there's a start of lobbyism back there. And, as has been said many times, when there is no longer a special situation, in the crisis too, decisions restricting fundamental rights should be taken by the Riigikogu, which affects all people. This will ensure both public consultation, reflection of 101 life experiences in the decision-making process and constitutional monitoring. The field of activity of the Chancellor of Justice is wide and I would like to give you many more examples. A lot to say, but we're out of time. Finally, with regard to local elections on children's and young people's rights. Children and young people, we studied it, expect new councils to have a place to be, to be safe, to talk to each other. Some may call it hanging out, but it's part of growing up to be a good person. It's not just a skateboard park, it's a good thing, but it also needs places where, for example, girls sit and watch pictures. Well, ladies here imagine what we're talking about. This was a great desire for young people to be noticed as well as to have somewhere to be. The answer to the question of whether a local election campaign, topics may also be discussed at a youth centre or school, for example, is a sure yes. Of course it's okay. 16 and 17 years of age shall have the right to vote. The border is simple: neither the school nor the youth centre can become the electoral headquarters of one party. But to the question of what to do if the mayor wants to cook pancakes at the youth center, I said, "Pancakes in the brush and always vote as you like." Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U7	On this positive news, we will move on to questions. Starts with Reuben Kaalep.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U8	Thank you, good manager. Your Honor, Chancellor! If public authorities are putting pressure on workers to vaccinate themselves by threatening that without it they will be made redundant or otherwise deprived of their jobs, please state whether this is a compulsory vaccination. Since there have been cases like this, how can you intervene to protect fundamental rights, including the right to physical self-determination?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U9	Thank you very much. You have brought here a problem before the representative of the people and also before the people, which is why the Chancellor of Justice has been approached most in recent weeks. Is there a compulsive vaccination? Our terminology doesn't. The suspicion of forced vaccination was once in Valkla's special care home. As soon as we got that signal, our people drove right over to the inspection. In this particular case, the person was not vaccinated violently, but a number of other problems were found and the words were read. At the time of the second dose, experts from the Health Board were deployed in order to avoid any coercive vaccination. The question now is whether the principle of freedom of vaccination, as prescribed by Estonian law, is compatible with the situation in which, for example, the ambulance, the defence forces or the police are released from the person who has not vaccinated himself and who does not have a clear medical contraindication. The answer here is that the Act on Health and Safety at Work lays down certain working conditions. Where it is objectively justified to require a person to carry out certain tests and tests, certain vaccines, such obligations as a condition of employment are per se permitted. What's not allowed? Basically, direct your entire collective to vaccinate simply to impose their own worldview, or simply not to be in trouble with the need to replace people, such as gas station servicemen, when they are in close contact with quarantine. A mere argument such as this probably should not be made in court. However, there are situations where an unvaccinated person would endanger his or her own health as well as that of others. If the risk analysis shows this, just as the Labour Inspectorate has explained it very thoroughly, it is possible to release a person unless there are really other options, such as the use of personal protective equipment or the restructuring of work. If this person is still dismissed, he or she will then be able to go to court before the administrative court of the public servant, the county court of the contract staff member.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U10	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U11	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Chancellor of Justice! I have this more philosophical question, one way or another, we'll end up with philosophical questions. To what extent do we break the paradigm in society, where we assess the outcome of the processors according to the proposals that have been culled and not qualified, but rather [do this] for projects that have been helped? Under the Corona conditions, we have taken all possible measures. Officials can always report how much has been culled, but it was not really a decision of the Riigikogu, rather it was to help all those in need so much. Should we do that, I don't know, some new metrics or something, so that a little humanity would come into that dry bird-pushing statistics?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U12	Excellent question right into the heart of the issues we wrestle with on a daily basis. I am afraid that when it comes to helping a person, solving his or her problems, the meters are not appropriate at all. The ideology of the New Public Management in this sense caused a great deal of damage and systemic mismanagement in Estonia. It is possible to guide your people through good management, looking for a way to help, for example, an entrepreneur in trouble or a farmer in a reporting situation, rather than looking for a way to recover or not grant subsidies at all. So we had a great deal to deal with in other areas, too, in relation to crisis measures. But leadership is the key word here, I believe.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U13	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U14	Thank you. Madam Chancellor! Sometimes it seems like we live in the golden age of all kinds of cyber thugs and identity thieves. Those modern-day billiards. A great many people who have fallen on this bike, even without their knowledge, on this wheel, where it is very difficult for them to defend their positions, how do you appreciate people's chances of obtaining legal assistance in these situations. For example, is the legal aid offered in Estonia today sufficient?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U15	Thank you. The availability of legal aid, the opportunity for people to understand why they think they have been harmed, is indeed extremely poor. The experience of our house also shows that people do not know how to defend their rights. Those cases where someone's electronic identity has been stolen or where, for example, the state has stolen facial images, names from national registers, unfortunately, will also reach us at some point. In some cases, they may result in a person experiencing very serious economic difficulties. And in another case, which has now been highlighted several times, it is that a person asks if there is any way I can live without an e-governance, because I no longer trust.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U16	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U17	Thank you, manager. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! You have also dealt with the topic of the state budget and the constitutional duties of the Riigikogu when dealing with the state budget. Since the situation has become quite unbearable in the light of the clarity of the State Budget Act, the Ministry of Finance is prepared to make some concessions and an amendment to the basic state budget law has been initiated. You have said that this amendment to the law will clarify the budgetary process, but will not help the Riigikogu to fulfil its constitutional duty to participate in the decision-making of the state budget. I agree with you. This so-called activity-based budget, as it is implemented in Estonia, is not what I would call a budget, but is a list of abstract programmes and meters, not a budget. I'm asking. If everything continues to be the same, the Constitution should be amended. The Riigikogu does not decide on the budget, the government decides. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] But even if this is not done, what kind of signal does it give outside the Riigikogu if the Riigikogu does not comply with the law...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U18	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U19	... a constitutional obligation? Does such a thing also devalue the preservation and protection of constitutional values?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U20	Thank you. This is a really difficult situation. Of course he's devaluation. Of course, the situation in which everyone sees the Constitution says that the Riigikogu must adopt the budget of all the most important costs and revenues as a law, and the Riigikogu adopts instead some very dark list of programs, some ministries have only one line and then a large sum of money, so this does not increase public trust or transparency, of course. The National Audit Office also loses the opportunity to check where taxpayers' money and state assets go. So the problem is completely substantive and there is. Can Estonia go this way so that, like the United Kingdom, the government, for example, brings a budget to the parliament to take or leave it? I don't really think I can. The Constitution that we have must be respected. We cannot compare a proportional electoral system based on coalition governments with the order leading to the two-party system and to the one-party governance. In the inter-election period, for example in the United Kingdom, it is generally the same government. This may not be the case with coalition governments. Now from the activity-based budget itself. I very much believe that we must not allow state life to fall apart. Always try better, always look for opportunities for development. Therefore, there would be no tendency to condemn the hope that such an activity-based, result-oriented budget would make the use of taxpayers' money more efficient, giving new impetus. I think today this test should be considered to have ended honestly. We can't make it by 2022, but we can do it by now. And here we are not alone at all. Australia and Holland, for example, went the same way. At first, these theoretical foundations were transferred to an activity-based budget, then in Australia, for example, Parliament suddenly discovered that defence costs were just one line, i.e. no one would know what was going on in terms of salaries, armaments or anything else. And I'm not talking about state secrets. On this point, the Australian Parliament pissed off and turned the process back. About the same in Holland.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U21	Urve Tiidus.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U22	Thank you, Mr President. Your Honor, Chancellor! People always get smarter and realize that many difficult things can be solved, especially when you turn to the Chancellor of Justice. In six years, you say, your workload has doubled, your number of appeals and solutions has doubled. You have brought such an interesting figure that dry stun does not help solve problems and the exercise of discretion is difficult, perhaps because of lack of experience in life. Could you give us a few examples of how we can improve this situation? Is this a problem of legal education, some lack of wisdom, the choice of civil service staff or whatever?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U23	Thank you very much. The answer is beautifully similar to the answer I gave to Mr Kruusimägi. It seems to me that it is a question of leadership and that it is a matter of congestion. When you apply the metrics, when you approach the official's work formally, you point out that he has done his job well, when he has, figuratively speaking, moved the papers in the right order and arranged them nicely, if you encourage this mental attitude that a clean procedure will quite certainly lead to a fair solution, that is, the procedural truth will be revealed, then the result will not be different. The firm attitude of our authorities is that procedural truth cannot be satisfied. You must always strive for the truth of substance, justice, justice, and reasonableness. I believe that here, again, movement can only be step-by-step. To this end, the entire ideology of the public service, the management of the administration should be changed and the official's duty under oath should be to take the concern of a person into the heart, to deepen, not to try to process out the door or to move on in any way. There is no faster and simpler solution. But as far as we can, we'll make sure it's the way officials work. At times, this encouragement leads to a decision to resolve a person's concern and to stop such a roll.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U24	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! Legislative power has granted more persons the right to exercise local authority at local level. We are thinking here of the ambassadors of the European Parliament, members of the Riigikogu. But at the same time, in the inter-administrative period, the practice is rooted in where the local government, taking advantage of the right to self-regulation, has begun to restrict the freedom of the person who has obtained the mandate. A specific example is the introduction of a local authority, where a nominated Commissioner who has applied for a city council must choose between participating in a municipality council or in a city council. Perhaps this is the part regulated by the Rules of Procedure, and so is the majority imposed by the Council. I ask whether you think this is in accordance with the law, restricting the fundamental right at local level by taking away that a citizen or a person who has obtained a mandate must waive his mandate in order to participate in the work of the public administration.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U26	Thank you very much. In order not to be mistaken in reply, please have the opportunity to send this reply to you in writing. Colleagues who are watching this debate on the balcony and who are watching it online have already included this issue and I believe that in a day or two you will receive an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U27	Tarmo Tamm.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U28	Thank you, manager. Thank you, Chancellor of Justice, for this meaningful report. I'm asking about equal treatment. As we know, with regard to the corona, people will not be allowed in many places unless there is a corresponding proof that [human] has been vaccinated or [disease] affected. But there is a certain group of people who must not be vaccinated for medical reasons. Imagine that if a person wants to go to a theatre, a concert hall, a diner, he must always buy a certificate that is not cheap at all. Is it equal treatment that these people have to spend extra expenses every day to enjoy the benefits and pleasures that are normally allowed to everyone? This will become extremely costly for these people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U29	Thank you very much, very good problem! When this arrangement was introduced, I drew the attention of the Government of the Republic to it, and at least in part this problem has been resolved since 15 September. But you will find answers to your questions, not in an appropriate general arrangement, but again in a guide at one corner. With reference to your question, however, I would ask the government to resolve this more clearly. Indeed, those people who cannot be vaccinated due to their medical condition must receive at least.. and, if the epidemiological situation so requires, it is very important to test the supplement here free of charge. So, to some extent, this problem was solved, but not in its entirety and not in the way that the people it concerns themselves know about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U30	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U31	Thank you. First of all, thank you for solving the concerns of these many people over the last year. I guess that's the same thing in this hall. The question has already been asked about budgetary transparency and people who are not vaccinated for health reasons. I'm asking about social matters. A person's need for assistance should be assessed and given the necessary support, regardless of whether it is formally a special need, a disability, whether it is designated in the health sector or in social welfare. But these sad stories about how the right to a service is linked to some formalized status have probably reached your desk as well. Do you see that we have something in the legislation that needs to be improved so that people can still get the help they need, not only if there are suitable birds, such as a disability? Or is it purely a matter of the work process and that officials do not exercise the discretion granted to them?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U32	Thank you very much. As far as I know, the officials who have to provide assistance to the person who needs their help have also requested some changes to the legislation. But the main question is whether the local government really understands the statutory role of social welfare in deepening the need for a particular person, whether it is a no-noise-free living space or whether it is a kindergarten or a school path for a certain disabled child, etc., or a personal assistant, and finds it in the best way possible. Of course, no one can expect to have a personal assistant, such as a description interpreter or sign - language interpreter, to accompany him several times a week in every theater performance and cinema. Of course not. There are certain limits to reason. But very often, the help needed to see a doctor, for example, is also lost. And there, it seems to me, the matter lies behind the ongoing dispute between the state and the local government, although the Supreme Court, at the request of the Chancellor of Justice, remembered that it is the task of the local government to understand what the person in need of assistance needs and to provide this assistance. Despite this many municipalities don't want, can't, can't, aren't used to. These very tragic stories remain in the last year of the review. For example, a pensioner was asked to transport his bedridden husband in some way. When the municipality sent transport, it became clear that the car was not suitable for the bedridden.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U33	Ladies and gentlemen, there are many questioners, let us try to fit our questions in one minute. Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U34	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Ülle Madise! You said that the highest number of complaints was on vaccination-related issues in the last year. But I would like to know whether, in your long career, there is an area that is so well regulated by your intervention, from which there will be no complaints at all. I'd like a little bit of a positive note.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U35	That's a brilliant question. Complaints concerning vaccination have been [had] now, in the last few weeks. Can't say they were highlight last year. But, for example, there has been no complaint this season that some Estonians in Abkhazia were deprived of their birth citizenship. It managed to solve it quite effectively. We agreed with the Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board that the law will be interpreted in a way that respects fundamental rights and the citizens of the Republic of Estonia after birth.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U36	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U37	Thank you, President of the sitting. Dear waitress, You stressed in your report that it is not unnecessary to insist on legality. With regard to the spread of a lasting pandemic and the crisis situation, we have all struggled with the imposition and legitimacy of restrictions. In one of your long radio interviews, you have stated that you did not consider it justified to close large building and gardening spores by the government in the spring. My question: will the Chancellor of Justice be able to give his expert opinion today and immediately at the government hearing? And also, what have been the more difficult situations with COVID in your work?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U38	Thank you very much. As provided for by the Constitution, in matters concerning the Agency, including the restriction of fundamental rights, I will always take the floor at the session of the Government and the Cabinet of the Republic and, if possible, will also make a statement in writing. Similarly, as said in some interviews and not at all condemning the government, both the previous government and the current government, but rather the term, there is a great deal of misguided public opinion or imaginary public opinion to resolve this crisis. It would go easier if it could be rationally, purely epidemiology. But you don't often. And then there are situations where everything is closed with a wide table, so that in the middle of the spring planting-building time there are huge, very well-changed gardening shops at the same time, as if they were special carriers of the risk of infection. Well, it's not. We see countries where no such excessive restrictions have been made, but the assumption is that the crisis is really run by experts and that politicians can point the finger at them. However, if a rapid solution is expected from politicians, political measurement is taking place, the resolution of the crisis has become a day-to-day issue, then, to a certain extent, populist crisis management is inevitable. Estonia has done quite well compared to others. It has done quite well, and once again there is a strong state-manship from the actors in our political field. In both light hands and in some other countries, the resolution of the crisis has not been a day-to-day point-picking exercise.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U39	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U40	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Thank you, Madam Chancellor, for this report. I am asking about the implementation of the law on partnership or rather about non-implementation. Your report contains a number of examples of how data on the partnership agreement are not included in the population register, how foreigners are not granted a temporary residence permit, so that they can settle with their partners, how no special permission is granted for coming to Estonia with their same-sex partner, etc., etc. However, you also produce [examples] well from case law, where the court actually resolves all these issues one by one, arguing that the lack of implementing legislation in the Cohabitation Act does not prevent the conclusion of a partnership agreement with a foreign citizen and the registrar is obliged to enter the partnership agreement in the Population Register, etc., etc. Your comment, please. Is there any way out of this situation, or are we going to continue with this practice that every individual has to turn to the courts to defend their rights before politicians find any consensus on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U41	Thank you. If there is not enough majority in the Riigikogu to adopt these implementing acts, unfortunately, the resolution of these individual cases is inevitable in court. I have repeatedly said that, in my opinion, the adoption of the Cohabitation Act without just the same majority correction in other laws, but a few laws called for a majority in membership, led to a series of conflicts that would not benefit anyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U42	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U43	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Thank you, Chancellor of Justice, for this review and especially for all the material on your website. It's an interesting reading every year. I would like to ask about the issue of determining the degree of disability of children. Although the Social Insurance Institution has published on its website a document that sets out the basic criteria for determining the degree of disability, they are written in it, but in fact no legislative act, regulation, draft or law has been amended. And that's a lot of confusion. To say that local authorities need to assess the need for assistance is clear, but very often this person is thrown between the state and the local government. Believe me, local authorities generally want to help people very, very much, but the state also directs money, which is intended for a child with a deep and severe degree of disability. What do you see as a solution here?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U44	Thank you very much. And thank you for the work you have done in bringing about and resolving these problems in the Riigikogu! This cooperation has been truly good over the years and I believe that many people's concerns have been resolved in this way. If that's okay, then again, colleagues have noted. I think we had a complaint on the exact same subject yesterday, so let's get this straight. And if there is a need to change standards, I very much hope that the Riigikogu will find the necessary majority and this will be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U45	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U46	Thank you very much. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! I will return to this coercive vaccination for a moment, because there is no legal definition of 'undivation' in our own law, and this is confusing. Just thinking, you can say that forced vaccination is by its nature when someone gets caught and vaccinated by force, but that's not the real life. If we start to think about it, and as lawyers we know very well that the law, and especially the constitutional rights, is interpreted in a way that takes account of the common meaning of words, then in fact, in a semantic way we can see that there is a compulsion, too, if a good is taken away, if a good is lost, or someone is forced into a certain situation. Again, could you make it clear that, in a situation where we are not talking about the physical capture of someone, we are talking about forcing someone into the situation, how to deal with this coercive vaccination?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U47	Thank you very much. Yes, I fully agree that it is worth using words in the sense in which they are commonly used and understood. In my numerous answers and explanations, I have also explained that, for example, the sole and main objective of the coronal passport requirement must not be essentially to force the pods to vaccinate people if they themselves are deeply convinced that they do not want it. I have also repeatedly explained that there are certainly principled anti-vaccines, but there are other people who cannot really vaccinate. And there are people who have had it through, who have a lot of antibodies, who are told by their doctor that at the moment there is no need for [vaccine]. In Estonia, too, they are unfortunately not given, even though the amount of antibodies is sufficient, the coronapass is even very short-term. This is again another problem that we are trying to solve and request that, in this case, the person still gets access to the services where the corona passport is now in place. What can our authorities say? This is a general arrangement that can only be challenged by any person who feels that his or her rights have been violated by himself. We can explain that as a temporary measure, as long as the epidemiological situation so requires, the requirement for a corona passport is likely to be justified as an alternative to closing the gyms and cafes once again. We are usually asked about this, but is this really the epidemiological situation? There's nothing we can do about it, we don't appreciate the epidemiological situation. If the Health Board has said that we have an emergency situation, that hospitals need to limit scheduled treatment, and therefore they would recommend either decisive restrictions and closures of close contacts or the requirement for a coronal passport, then this must be the rule of law. If anyone has questions about the competence of the Health Board, the salaries of its staff, motivation, independence, these are already specific issues. If it should be. We don't. We're based on what they say. So I agree with you that this situation is difficult. In society, the motivations that people are upset with each other and that make them feel that their country does not care about them have come to a great deal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U48	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U49	Thank you. Your Honor, Chancellor! There is a regulation such as the establishment of a biological hazard factor for the working environment, which states that vaccination can be carried out by an employer if there is a need to stress! just a vaccine you can trust. I also asked you in the Committee on Legal Affairs with a reference to this [regulation] that the current COVID vaccine leaflets state that there are no different side effects for children, pregnant women, etc. I have added that tests are still taking place in this regard and that they will only end in two years' time in this case. Maybe that information's in there right now. On my question, whether it's reliable or not, you said you didn't know you were a lawyer. Now I also happened to see the "First Studio," where you said that, in addition to legal knowledge, you're gathering facts. I would like to know if you will ever assess whether this current vaccine is reliable or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U50	Thank you very much. Thank you for watching the first studio and thank you for these good questions in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and, of course, in this Chamber. However, the effect of the disease or vaccine on the human body can only be said by doctors who have studied and practiced the area for a long time. Our authority must, and I am absolutely convinced of that, that a lawyer must not move through life with eye flaps, to be able to look at the consensus of doctors on this matter. Doctors also have different opinions. But we inevitably need to trust the consensus of the doctors. There is no such capacity in our house, although we have really had very good advisors with expertise in the field, and still are, from intensive care doctors to very good experts in the field of virology and biomedicals, they are able to read publications and monitor what is happening there. But the assessments made by scientists in the relevant field of science, of course, cannot be replaced by us. However, we are very careful to gather material, and we receive much of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U51	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U52	Thank you, good manager. First of all, my thanks to you for thinking environmentally and instead of 101 fat books, there is a beautiful reference to your annual review, which is very clear and digitally accessible to everyone also in homes all over Estonia. My question also concerns equal treatment. Even the same example that my colleague, Eduard Odinets, pointed out here, where the PBA prevented people from getting together cross-border under the coronal conditions, enabled them to do so, but did not allow them to enter into a partnership agreement. Your intervention solved the situation. I want to know how often this has happened, that following your intervention, the violation and discrimination have been stopped, and whether there is any help here if there is such a round table. You gave an example of where, when you met the head of the PBA, you were able to overcome the case of birth citizenship. Could this clarification for officials help to ensure that, for example, as long as we have not yet adopted legislation implementing the Cohabitation Act, officials behave in a humane manner with those who turn to them?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U53	Thank you very much. As has been said, when we see that there is a problem, we understand the core of this problem, and we see that it can be solved both for us and for the relevant official, without much screaming we will explain this position and, of course, the official will decide as he sees fit after this meeting. If necessary, a person can also go to court.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U54	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U55	Thank you very much. Thank you, Chancellor, first of all, for a good overview. But I will come back to September 2018, when you told the Riigikogu in your annual review that the anti-corruption law defines operating restrictions in a mixed way and does not allow a person to understand exactly whether his actions are prohibited or not. You also said: 'Let's talk about defining operating restrictions, for example. It is not clear whether the action limit applies or not. " And: '... it is assumed that each person must be able to interpret for himself whether his actions are prohibited or permitted. [... ] If, however, the possible consequence is punishment, the person must know what is permitted and what is forbidden. ' Have you made a letter of formal notice in this regard to the Committee on Legal Affairs or anywhere to be resolved? Maybe I missed something.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U56	Thank you very much. We had quite an in-depth debate on this in the Committee on Legal Affairs, but, like many other issues, it has remained somewhat dormant during the pandemic and has not been resolved. So that's a really good point. I very much hope that meetings and meetings will return face-to-face and that we will be able to look at these standards together. At that time, however, the prosecutor's office tried to convince the Committee on Legal Affairs that these provisions were sufficient. Our department maintained that it certainly wasn't. And when it comes to a matter as important as corruption, you can't make the public feel like, oh, it's nothing. Corruption is not nothing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U57	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U58	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! Nature conservation has reached a fundamental impasse today, has become formal, and this is reflected, in particular, in the introduction of prohibitions which do not improve the real situation of the protected object. In setting restrictions, socio-economic analyses are often lacking or have been carried out to an extremely limited extent. In my opinion, this year's spring summer logging is a good example, or it is also happening around Alutaguse Nature Reserve. What do you recommend to the government that is actually implementing the nature conservation policy and also to the people to protect their rights?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U59	Thank you very much. It's easy for me to suggest, I'm not going to the election. I'd recommend courage. It's the same with the barrier on the hill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U60	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U61	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Thank you, Chancellor of Justice, for your good report. I have a nice expression in my ear, such as 'out-the-door processing', which I have seen quite a lot in our public authorities myself. I wanted to ask if you have observed an increase in this trend in your work over the last few years. When a person turns to different authorities with his or her concerns, it seems to me, at least, that a person is treated quite lightly outside the door and is told that if you do not like or want to challenge something, please turn to the court. Does your work statistics show this, and if it does, what should we do to keep this trend going and maybe reverse it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U62	Thank you very much. I do not think this situation has got worse, but unfortunately it has not improved significantly either. I think that, in all areas of government, once again, from top executives, also in our administration, it is simply a matter of persistently taking this thinking to people that these very "frontier officials" are the face of the Estonian state. This is where a person meets the country, and if that face is very ugly, then a person will be disappointed in his country. So, in fact, the state should always be kind and substantive. And absolutely every official who solves someone's problem, whether it's a notification of logging or a permit or a precept to dismantle a barrier or, on the contrary, to stand up, must actually consider that a person must understand why such an injunction was made and a position was taken, a person must understand that he, too, has a role in it, that he has been heard, he has been explained, he has no arrogance, and the official does not have anything to do with him. So you just have to step by step, consistently introduce this thinking, and there is no other way. Unfortunately, no law is helping here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U63	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U64	Thank you, Mr President. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! In your introductory statement, you referred to the government's working arrangements during the virus that the government will make the arrangements that you will then, according to [the dispute], and sometimes you will not be able to challenge, but the party involved. But I have a question at all about centralising power and current tendencies, where I feel that not only does the power of Parliament decline, but also the power of some ministries is increasingly moving to the State Chancellery. The specific question relates to the fact that, as far as I know, the release of Chancellors has previously been proposed by the Minister. This time the Secretary of State decided to call the Chancellor at the request of the Prime Minister and dismiss him. Is this a legitimate activity, and how do you comment on the use of this telephone right?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U65	Thank you. I'm trying to keep this line that if I haven't made the facts clear, I don't think it's that important. So if there seems to be a violation of somebody's rights, I would very much ask that this person, or your signal, turn. If we cannot solve ourselves or create clarity, then we can at least recommend what to do. The restrictions you referred to are mostly imposed by a general arrangement, which is quite new in the Estonian legal order. Looks like the law, but everyone can only challenge their own. And if in a year or two, you know, maybe you're gonna get it right, it's gonna be exactly yours, except it's not gonna do you any good. So, by its very nature, it is certainly acts which, in my opinion, should be adopted outside the emergency situation by the Riigikogu and, in this case, constitutional supervision is also guaranteed in the public interest. In times of emergency, of course, the situation is different; then it must be central to the rapid management of the government and the Prime Minister, so there is a completely different story.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U66	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U67	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! Thank you very much for this report and, above all, for the work you are doing yourself and the office of your Chancellor of Justice is doing, I would say, to guarantee the credibility of the state, not just to protect people's rights. Indeed, there are many good things to bring out. But I would like to ask you about something you yourself referred to. There is now a situation where there are a lot of value conflicts in Estonian society. You have, like in the time of the Coron, or also, I would say, like the situation that occurred in the spring during the discussion of ABIS, where you need not only to see whether constitutional values are protected, but there is such a place of consideration as to have individual rights on one side and on the other side of the common good or, let's say, such collective rights, or such a choice between them. Whether it's security or privacy, you've written about the collection and storage of personal data, while people's interest in security. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] And the same thing about vaccination. Here's my question. You have said a lot that it is important to discuss how such a conflict can be resolved between individual rights and collective benefits. But who and where should we discuss this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U68	Thank you very much. If the Riigikogu were to take these decisions, then the first place to discuss it would be here, and then, of course, there would be a public debate about it. It is in this key that all possible situations, decisions, and restrictions are analysed by our authorities. This is the so-called proportionality test that, on the one hand, there are common benefits, such as the protection of public health, security, public order, and, on the other hand, business freedom, privacy, etc. Where there is no such serious conflict, there is no real need for legislation. That makes it difficult to decide and very interesting that a rule is generally necessary where interests are conflicting. And an understanding of what is right in a particular case, where it is the balance between the general good and the individual's own interests, rights, freedoms, that decision can be made by a representative of the people, Parliament as a result of consideration. It is often a question of fairness, and this issue of justice will eventually be decided in elections. So that, for example, our authority would have forgotten everyone's right to health protection was not. But you are absolutely right that society has somehow become so much more hurtful, irritated, and that in society such rifts that did not exist before run from very strange places, and people are very evil to each other. This is reflected in our reading of our views, so we must work hard to write better. Everyone begins to read or listen to the position of their position, and if the first sentence is not what he expected, then will not be read further, then the position will be clear. If, for example, we say that according to the laws of the Republic of Estonia, parents who do not have a koronapass should not be expelled from the first-class parents' meeting or their activities, there is no conclusion from this sentence that the school does not have to guarantee health protection. About the third sentence, we say that the school must guarantee health protection. There is no conclusion that anyone is anti-vaccinating or pro-vaccinating. We cannot take the view that we are in favour or opposed. But it's very much expected. And that is a dangerous tendency that much more people, even from an independent constitutional institution, expect to take a political position than in the past. We can't do this. We can't do this. And it is not possible to fit two into the same sentence: that treatment and vaccination in the Republic of Estonia are based on free will, and that there are individual, judicially controlled exceptions where, for example, a certain health check or vaccination may be required as a prerequisite for work. You can't put these two in one sentence. But on this first sentence, people who have always cherished the rule of law and liberal values are accusing the vaccinating. And if you put the other one first, then again those who are currently defending the interests of people who, for whatever reason, hesitate or unwilling to vaccinate must exist in the whole of society, must not be disparaging, will read the first sentence again and will not reach the second. So it is true that value conflicts are very much more and the work of the Chancellor of Justice is more complicated than that. But there's nothing to complain about, you just have to know better.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U69	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U70	Thank you. Good Chancellor of Justice! We have a systematic dissemination of false information on vaccination. It is being urged foreignly, it is being urged politically. As a result of this incitement, people actually die, suffer material damage. One of the most active distributors of false information, there is a great deal of written evidence about this, asked you a question about the harmful effects of vaccines. You said it wasn't for you to judge, but for you to believe in the consensus of the doctors. Tell me if you could have smeared your legal purity in any way if you had finished this sentence and also said what the consensus of the doctors is, what you respect. Would that have helped, or would your independence have been compromised in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U71	Thank you very much. You see, there's a way to do your job better. It certainly does not interfere with independence, and in written statements we will also, if necessary, provide references to relevant research or positions so that we can look up ourselves. At this point in time, the consensus of doctors and the decisions of the Government of the Republic based on it say that the potential side effects of vaccines represent a significantly lower risk to human health, a very lower risk than the benefits of getting vaccinated people to get sick and seriously ill are significantly lower than those of unvaccinated people. So let's just say that. And thank you very much! Whenever there are ideas about how to perform better, I listen very carefully.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U72	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U73	Thank you, President-in-Office. Your Honor, Chancellor! The Prime Minister loves us to speak about the rule of law by giving him examples of the violation of fundamental rights of people in the Republic of Estonia. That if someone feels that his or her rights have been violated, he or she will always have the opportunity to go to court to defend his or her rights. However, state fees have just been raised to court and court attendance has become so expensive that ordinary people can no longer get their rights back in court. What do you recommend to these people? Second. Your speech was about election propaganda schools, and you were quite gentle in that regard. But how do you feel about a specific case where a high school teacher in her class asked students who were going to vote in October and then gave them the materials and snacks of the Reform Party? Is that legitimate? How can we ensure equal treatment for political parties in educational institutions in such cases?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U74	Thank you very much. That's a very good question at the right time. So let's try to widen these answers. Neither the teacher, nor the director, nor any other school staff, can share electoral material from any political party or do any party benefit or, unfortunately, propaganda. If there are such cases, they must be reported and responded to. My introductory words were that students, too, must not give rise to the feeling that those people who are willing to apply will take responsibility for the life of either the local community or the state, which I believe is not an easy job, which is a very respectable job, these people are as if dirty or dangerous. No, it's not. We are not forbidden by any party, considered to be unconstitutional. Everyone's a legitimate party. Of course, those who apply should also be welcome to the election campaign events at school or at the youth centre, but there really must be equal opportunities for all. As I have emphasised, no educational institution or youth centre should become the propaganda community of any political party or electoral union. But, at the same time, it really isn't right for students to stumble into the fact that all people who are politically active or who are running for something are dangerous and I'm better than them. No, it's not. On the contrary, students need to be told that, from your local community, if you want your siblings and you yourself to have somewhere to be, that the school way is safe, that someone listens to what you're interested in, you'll have to apply yourself if you feel you can do it. The issue of fees is very correct. Here, too, a complaint came in, colleagues are watching, and if it is okay, we will again share the answer that we send to the complainant in writing. The Supreme Court has also looked at this on several occasions and the Chancellor of Justice has also repeatedly contested that excessively high fees can really discourage the exercise of a person's constitutional right, or right to appeal to a court, and that is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U75	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U76	Dear Vice-Chairman, Honorable Chancellor of Justice! I thank you very much for your presentation, especially for the part concerning officials and their behaviour. Indeed, I see day by day how the irrational behaviour of the country is taking people away from rural areas, and that is sad. But sometimes it seems to me that an official cannot be friendly with a person, because then there will be official control, be it the National Audit Office or any other control, chasing the ticks in the boxes, and this could be followed by punishment for the official. I very much agree that our thinking world has changed in this respect, and this is indeed due to mismanagement, especially at national level. I would ask you, you have a great experience, a great deal of contact with this: how can we begin to change this mindset? Where to start or what to do to rotate this process a little bit the other way around? It is indeed genuinely sad when young people say that they are not coming back to Estonia because the salary is small, but because the Estonian state cannot respect them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U77	Thank you very much. I guess we can change that thinking together. There are different ways. We deal with these complaints by going to places. A very good point was made with regard to supervision. Maybe that's where we can focus more attention. We're actually looking at PRIA from this angle, but really there would be more to do. This belief that if the tick is made into the right box and the digital papers are in the right folder today, then the solution is the right one. For example, in a country with solar panels, there can be no right to agricultural payments, as it is as if there is nothing agricultural. Actually, sheep can be raised, and that's not the only one. There is no basis for excluding these countries from the eligible countries. But it's right that we have to go see how the controls are handling it. So thanks for the thought, let's make it happen!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U78	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U79	Thank you, Mr President. Good Chancellor of Justice! My question also concerns the problem of our fellow nationalists, which we mentioned years ago. There was an elegant clue to this, it must have touched the Estonians of Abkhazia. In fact, this topic is of course very much wider than only the Estonians of Abkhazia: Estonians of Siberia, Estonians of the Far East. And their number, if you look at their offspring, is terrifyingly high. Of course, there are certain security risks with them, etc., etc. It is also important that there has been a time when the Estonian state, instead of regulation, was also involved in some susserisation. I'm interested in your assessment right now. Could the law's theory and law practice in this area be in normal balance now, or should the Riigikogu or any other institution make further efforts in this regard? Such maybe the voices and problems caused by incompetence are still being heard.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U80	Thank you very much. If memory is not deceived, there was a court settlement that ruled out a broader approach. Ladies and gentlemen will check it out, and if it is all right, we will discuss it with each other and with those members of the Riigikogu who are still interested in it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U81	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U82	Thank you very much. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! My question is the relationship between accessibility and local government. One general question is this: how do you think local authorities currently manage to improve accessibility? Of course, the subject is wider. For example, in this house, your excellent presentation and answering important questions will not be translated into sign language. It's disturbing. Now let's get down to business. Local authorities have great power in their territory to organise things, including to set access rights for the necessary objects. Now, the question is whether these servitudes themselves should meet some accessibility requirements. For example, older people can also get through hilly terrain or dunes. In one particular case, the local authority advised the elderly, an 85-year-old, to use the public beach instead of accessing the beach. How do you see whether local authorities should also monitor accessibility requirements in this case?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U83	Thank you very much. Yes, all cities and municipalities must also comply with accessibility requirements. If there is any indication that they have not been followed, whether it is a question of the availability of the website, for example, to a person with poor eyesight or to the blind, or whether it is a question of subtitling texts or sign language translation, or of not losing physical barriers or creating physical barriers, then it is worth contacting us with them. It is often a matter of ignorance and, frankly, even in the city of Tallinn. Not far from our workhouse, a ramp was built at the Tallinn City Information Point, and when it was built, we were surprised. We had a colleague who was in a wheelchair, and in the winter he showed our people, or more accurately he promised to try the wheelchair, what it was like to use [a ramp]. We looked at it as amazing, it's so narrow and there's no barrier that it still has to be a world champion in a wheelchair ride who dares to ride up here. And the twin cart doesn't get [up] and a lot of that stuff. And then we wondered. But for a long time I didn't have to wonder, they were rebuilt. But [happens] even in Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U84	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U85	Thank you, manager. Good waitress, thank you for your good work and your support for sending the activity-based budget to the trash. But how? The main issue is what I had to deal with on weekends and Fridays, that it turns out that it is not possible to test what [visiting certain places] is a prerequisite for those who have not been vaccinated, [they] need to have the opportunity to test it, even in the city of Tallinn on the same day, not to mention the county cities. You have to write it down first, and then you have to pay for it somewhere, for this life and right for 48 hours, about a hundred euros. My question is, does it have to be so arduous? I've been vaccinated myself. But the person who approached me to [have] the right to go to the cinema, the theatre, the cafeteria, [must] buy his right to live for 48 hours at 100 euros. Is it normal for people to be thrown like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U86	Stretching people is not normal; many places actually allow and accept speed tests. And, as I said, those people who cannot vaccinate should be free to test where it is justified, not just like that. I'd really hope to keep it going. In addition to the fact that those who actually have antibodies are also able to obtain a corona pass. What our authority can do is stress that such restrictions can only be temporary and last until they are epidemiologically required. What is epidemiologically required must be decided by the epidemiologists, that cannot be done by us. We can only rely on whether the Health Board thinks that there is an emergency or not. It is now. If it really does seem in Tallinn, and you are very right, even in Tallinn, you cannot immediately test and not all have money for it, you should not be so arrogant that going out of 50 euros or, in the case of two tests, 100 euros is affordable for every family, after all, most of Estonia is not in the worst situation for those on the outskirts. They really don't have any hope. One correspondence with the Ministry of Social Affairs on this matter is also remembered to have reached the media.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U87	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U88	Thank you, good manager. Thank you, Chancellor of Justice, for your review and your work. I would like to ask about local government elections. Perhaps in your practice there have been such cases and you are able to make an assessment. I don't know, do I describe the situation? In one municipality of Harjumaa X, we call it hypothetically, there is an election coming, candidates want to do outdoor advertising, introduce themselves, and the municipality government issues advertising permits. However, there is a further point in the advertising licence that advertisements must not have any direct or indirect reference to political associations, political parties or political positions. Do you consider the establishment of such censorship on the territory of the municipality to be legal, that the dominant municipal authority essentially prohibits competing communication activities?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U89	Thank you very much. With your permission, I would like to take this issue to work, and colleagues will specify exactly where it was. At first glance, the principles of the freedom of the elections and the principles of the honesty of the elections mean that, figuratively speaking, the sticks must not be thrown into the bourgeois by using public authority to the opposite candidate. But let's make things clear and then we can make an assessment. Thank you very much for bringing this up.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U90	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U91	Honourable waitress! I recall Article 18 of the Constitution, which states that no one may be subjected to medical or scientific tests against his or her free will. I think you've been quite lukewarm in this situation, when even in Brezhnev's time there was no pie purchase restriction on booths or cafes, but now we have pie apartments where some can buy pie and parts can't and with very thin scientific reasons. I will give just one example to confirm that things are not very clear. If, in March, Irja Lutsar, the head of the Science Chamber, says that it has been confirmed that the AstraZeneca vaccine has a connection to one particular blood clot-producing syndrome and that until further information is available, the state will stop the AstraZeneca vaccine from being used under 60 years of age, this indicates that the process is ongoing on these subjects. Are the de facto compulsory vaccinations still not limited to subjecting the same people to medical tests?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U92	Thank you very much. Luckily, you can buy a pie, but I fully understand the position of your question. § 18 of the Constitution is in accordance with the Law of Obligations Act, which says that treatment and vaccination are voluntary. I wouldn't go along with the question of whether this is a drug test. Vaccination is voluntary and, as explained above, in very exceptional cases within the framework of safety and health at work, it is possible to require both health checks and vaccination if nothing else is left over and controlled by the court. Now, the question is whether the korona passport, which many countries use as a prerequisite for travel, and indeed so that a person can go to the cinema, theatre, concert, out eating, is in line with the principle of freedom of vaccination. Our response to the questioners has been that yes, if it is a temporary, epidemiologically indispensable measure, an alternative to re-locking all these places to everyone. Epidemiological decisions, as explained, are not made by us. The division of labour is the basis for the success of society and decisions on epidemiology must be taken by the Health Board, and it should be made publicly by epidemiologists. So, unfortunately, there is no better answer for you. This is a general arrangement of the Government of the Republic, which the Chancellor of Justice, even if, at some angle, even in some areas, would actually like to challenge and maybe could do so successfully in constitutional supervision, cannot do so. It looks like the law, but you have to challenge each one for yourself. And maybe in a few years the answer will come.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U93	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U94	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Madam Chancellor, thank you also for your meaningful presentation. I would like to pick up the question where Mr Ruuben Kaalepi left off. You mentioned that the risk analysis could in some cases, even in normal circumstances, without any special law repeating certain constitutional rights. Then the question arises of the adequacy of this risk analysis. I fully understand that if, for example, the Ministry of Social Affairs, according to a risk analysis, imposed a vaccination requirement of 100% on all staff in nursing homes, since infection would perhaps simply mean death for many residents there, I would ask that if only one member of the Defence Forces has been admitted to the hospital during the whole pandemic and we also see that the ongoing wars in this pandemic have virtually no effect on Armenian and Azerbaijan were at war in Nagorno-Karabakh, the Taliban took away Afghanistan, then will the court then have to decide on the adequacy of this risk assessment?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U95	Thank you! However, if some of the active troops are indeed dismissed because they have not been vaccinated and reference is made to a risk analysis showing that their vaccination is essential and does not have any alternatives, then in the current legal situation, it is indeed his only defence to go to court and ask for this risk analysis to be reviewed. In our house, there has been a question during the summer about the dispensation of conscripts, or the possibility of civilized languages, to go to family and friend and friends. Whether it is justified there that an unvaccinated and undiluted conscript receives a permit less often than a vaccinated conscript. We explained that since military service is quite a short period of time and training must be provided, it is understandable that the defence forces cannot risk a situation where, repeatedly and repeatedly, a conscript has been in close contact with the military for several weeks in quarantine, either outside, will not return to the troops, or in the troops. It's understandable there. If we now go to the active workers, I have also explained that there is still a distinction to be made here as to what work they do, how much contact is with others and what gap remains when they are in quarantine in close contact. It certainly cannot be a choice of comfort, and it certainly cannot be something whose only idea is to force vaccination.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U96	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U97	Thank you. About a week ago, on 14 September, the European Parliament adopted a resolution stating, inter alia, that European Union law takes precedence over any national law, including constitutional provisions. Only Jaak Madison, representative of EKRE, voted against it by Estonian ambassadors. All other party representatives agreed to this. When we joined the European Union, Estonia declared that the fundamental principles of our constitution prevail, and this was also enshrined in our constitution. In 2013 the President of the Supreme Court, Märt Rask, said that in view of the trends in the federalisation of the European Union and the current surrender of rights and sovereignty to the European Union, this mandate has been exhausted and, in the event of the surrender of further rights, the people should be asked for a new mandate. What, then, is the primacy of our constitution or the will of the European Union? How should we act in such a situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U98	Thank you very much. Since it was not an external agreement that would complement the conditions for cooperation within the European Union, I think it is quite clear that the provision adopted in Estonia in the referendum is in force, which says that Estonia can participate in the European Union, taking into account the fundamental principles of our own constitution. So here I do not see such a practical threat, it is probably a politically important change.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U99	Good Chancellor of Justice! You have run out of questions for members of the Riigikogu. Thank you! The Riigikogu now goes on with the negotiations and the negotiations can take the floor, I recall, representatives of the political groups. Starts with Marek Jürgenson on behalf of the central fraction. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen, who are still in this Chamber! Thank you, of course, to the Chancellor of Justice for a thorough report. Indeed, you can imagine how many daily trouble letters, complaints and questions will be received at the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice. I wish the Centre Party Group the strength to prepare meaningful answers and to find solutions. The work of the Chancellor of Justice as a constitutional institution is independent and independent, but in many respects, justice also goes hand in hand with matters relating to the protection of fundamental rights. Apparently, many of the people in the Chamber and those monitoring the transfer feel that the proceedings before our courts are unreasonable and time-consuming. This, however, violates everyone's fundamental right to judicial protection as set out in § 15 of our Constitution. The situation has also been made more difficult by the COVID-19 pandemic, which has further delayed the process and significantly increased the workload of the courts, because, as a result of the mid-term economic downturn, a number of so-called survival disputes are ongoing due to viral lay-offs and defaults. It can also be expected that tax disputes will be added and that anti-arbitrary offences will increase. There is no need to be an expert in understanding that the accumulation of things reduces efficiency and the quality of decisions. The Riigikogu, or us here, can also contribute to improving the longer-term improvement of justice. The draft state budget for next year will soon arrive in Parliament, and the ambassadors will have the opportunity to ensure that additional resources are allocated to the courts to improve the efficiency of their work. There is another option: as a legislator, the Riigikogu can contribute to the prevention of litigation, and we can contribute to the prevention of disputes through greater legal clarity. Insolvency proceedings could be improved and simplified, in particular by significantly shortening the discharge procedure. Consideration should also be given to changing the regulation of minimum livelihoods, developing a more flexible method for calculating maintenance costs, thereby simplifying the system of maintenance support and enabling it to be granted even before recourse to the courts. The division of cases should be made more flexible, the time limits that hinder court proceedings and the unreasonable deadlines should be waived, the digital court file should be given legal force, the admissibility of written proceedings should be extended, and the organisation of video sessions regulated by law. Last winter, under the conditions of the pandemic, we actively used the possibility of video sessions at the full sessions of the Riigikogu and it worked quite well. As Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I propose that further legal measures be taken to reduce the proportion of oral sessions and to extend the possibilities of using them by electronic means. Of course, a reasonable balance must be found between virtual and oral procedures, especially with regard to the public principle of court proceedings. Perhaps the time has come to begin the discussion on the public transmission of sittings on the Internet. The trial cannot take place without people, but technological solutions can also be applied here, because Estonia is the world's leading e-states. With a view to the sustainability and flexibility of work organisation, one option is the automation of simpler and more technical operations. It is equally important, in the light of increasingly complex and extensive cases, to avoid a situation where judges and judicial officials are unable to specialise in narrower areas. In smaller courts, it is already practically impossible to specialise, as judges deal with civil and criminal cases in parallel. Here too, flexible reorganisation of the burden and jurisdiction of courts could be a relief. One more minute, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U101	Please, one more minute!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U102	Of course, it would be best for society as a whole to have recourse to court only in extreme cases. It would be reasonable for the parties to reach an agreement on the dispute out of court. The courts have certainly been relieved of the state's legal assistance provided in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice for people with an average gross income of up to 1200 euros per month. If possible, even more resources could be channelled into the service. Hiring lawyers is not known to be cheap fun, and only a few can afford it. The Centre Party Group stands for a swift, efficient, transparent and affordable trial. We are ready to take all necessary steps to improve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U103	Next, Lauri Western Mets, representative of the Social Democrats. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U104	Honorable Chancellor of Justice! Good colleagues and other people in the hall! On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I would like to thank you and your fine civil servant for your excellent and heartful work. As you can read from your annual review, thousands of Estonian people have received help and advice from you. Even in a situation where it has not been your authority's responsibility to resolve specific issues, you have given further instructions to people whether and how they can be helped. The work of your administration should also serve as a major example for other government institutions. I agree with the Chancellor of Justice that the role of the Riigikogu in the governance of the state has been neglected. An outstanding example of this is the fight against the corona apandemia. In the emergency situation established by the government, where the situation was new and needed urgent decisions, it was reasonable that decisions were taken by the government under the leadership of the Prime Minister. Crisis management in emergency situations is the competence and responsibility of the government and the Prime Minister as head of the emergency situation. However, in decisions concerning the country as a whole outside the emergency situation, Parliament should be involved and take the relevant decisions itself, as is the case in a number of other European parliamentary countries. A balance of interests can be achieved in the parliamentary debate, where the vision of 101 members of the Riigikogu and their voters is represented. After all, the Riigikogu has been elected by the people, where according to [its] constitution the state is governed, not formally, but essentially. After all, the Constitution states that all matters relevant to the rights, freedoms and duties of the people must be brought down by the laws of the Riigikogu, not by regulation or order of the Government of the Republic. The task of the government, or executive power, is to implement and implement the decisions and choices made by the Riigikogu. Another example, which has been discussed a lot recently, is the current non-existent control of the Riigikogu when deciding on the expenditure and revenue of the state budget, because the expenditure of the state budget, including investments, has been presented at such a generalized level that it is not possible to get a clear view of the budget. Although, according to the Constitution, the core task of the Riigikogu is to adopt the state budget, including the determination of strategically important costs and revenues, in reality its substantive control is left to the competence of the government and the Riigikogu has only a formal role to play in knocking off. I very much hope and believe that the promise made yesterday by the Prime Minister that at the end of September the government will send the draft state budget to the Riigikogu for the following year, which will be transparent and understandable and will allow the members of the Riigikogu to do substantial work in making important budget decisions. Since the Riigikogu does not decide on the content or objectives of the budget strategy or the other strategy documents that are the basis for drawing up the budget, the social democrats consider that this is actually very necessary for certain topics. A sad example is the planning of the European Union's structural instruments, which will only reach this Chamber at the final stage, once all measures and targets have been agreed between the government and the European Commission. Once the measures have been completed in the ministries, we will only be discussing them in the context of the state budget. Perhaps the determination of directions and targets for half the amount of the state budget will go by Parliament with a big curve. We are talking about billions of euros, about which the Riigikogu will only speak afterwards. Can I have three more minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U105	Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U106	Therefore, in the spring, the Social Democrats submitted a draft decision of the Riigikogu to confirm the fundamental principles of European Union funds by Parliament in order to reduce regional inequalities. It contains three important principles which should guide the Government of the Republic in the preparation, modification and implementation of the European Union's cohesion policy financing plan. Point one, more money for job creation in regions; point two, higher support rates for less prosperous regions; and point three, regional or regional support measures. In conclusion, the separation of powers, the division of power and the balance of governance are essential for the functioning and maintenance of a democratic parliamentary rule of law. The Riigikogu, the government, the President, the courts, the Chancellor of Justice and the Auditor General are designed to complement and control each other. The division of powers thus structured guarantees the confidence of the people. Dear members of the Riigikogu, I would like to emphasise the constitutional right, obligation, role and responsibility of all of us in managing state life and making important decisions. Let's not give up the power and turn into a rubber stamp. We have a direct mandate and trust for the people to do our job, which includes responsibility. Good luck to all of us, and I wish the Chancellor of Justice strength in his work!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U107	Now, on behalf of the Isamaa Group, Urmas Reinsalu, please! Please, eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U108	Thank you. Honourable representative of the people! Madam Chancellor! Recognition to the Chancellor of Justice and his office for their work: a clear, precise and passionate scientific overview of what is under our rule of law. The problems are very intrinsic. The central issue to which we should focus is the question of our own competence, the competence of the representative of the people, and the narrowing of this seeming and actual competence. One thing that concerns the state budget, the processing of the state budget in Parliament, the comprehension of the state budget and the real nature of the state budget as a guide to channel taxpayers' money is that the Isamaa Group expects the government to make concrete proposals in principle. It must be acknowledged that the reforms that have been sought for the purpose of flexibility and purpose have not materialised in this form. On the contrary, we are in a two-storey society with an actual budget, which is considered to be 'cash-based', and it is formalised as a seeming budget given to Parliament, and then, in turn, it comes back to the ministries and is kept again in the second-floor accounts. It is certainly important for Parliament to insist that when a new budget is presented, these substantive first-floor budgets must also be submitted to Parliament, which has actually been prepared in ministries. We have the opportunity to get an overview at least informatively this autumn. The second issue relates to the fight against the corona virus and, in this context, to the restrictions imposed by the government on the basis of a general statutory mandate or imposed by a sub-government. In reality, it must be acknowledged that the point made by the Chancellor of Justice that the restriction of fundamental rights is selective, not always justified, in the substantive sense would be as little restrictive as possible of the fundamental right, but that, in the most effective way possible, the public health objective pursued would be realised, that we are in a very arbitrary situation here. We understand, I think, all of us accept the first phase of the virus crisis, where restrictions were implemented very quickly without scientific and practical knowledge. However, now that this virus has been in existence for almost a year and a half and the assessment of epidemiologists is that we can predict for several more years the roll-over of the different mutated strains of this virus and, consequently, the application of different restrictions, we must also take a different approach in the national representation as regards the fight against the virus as a legal framework. The least we can apply for as a representative of the people is that a representative of the government, be it the Minister for Health or the Prime Minister, regularly gives Parliament an overview of the reasonableness of these restrictions, and then it will also be possible to hold a debate in the representative of the people. Antiviral measures cannot be a debate-free space in society. There can't be a debate room! They always have a subjective view of how any restrictions apply, no restrictions apply, but they must first be the subject of parliamentary scrutiny, secondly, they must also be the place where the reasonableness of these restrictions is protected in parliamentary debate. The second, very clear proposal would be that, when we were in the first phase of the virus, this legal reference, which was, was based on it, as I was referring to, in the acute primary phase of this virus, to give the government general competence to apply different and actually open restrictions, now it is time for us to return, it is time for me to return to the administration of a normal state. We need a clear law to control the corona virus, with clear legal restrictions, but also legal mandates for the government in the area of specific restrictions, whether they are movement or corona passports. We are now seeing an example, even as selective, of whether or not they have been vaccinated, of the dismissal or not of the various public sector workers. Yes, of course, the general aim of society must be to ensure that the level of vaccination is such as to enable us to balance out a number of restrictions, other restrictions. However, it cannot be arbitraryly selective in terms of the protection of fundamental rights. As I read in the paper, seven ministers said to be fired in nursing homes, seven said not to be fired. That's where it ended. Or, in the same way, that there's actually one rule of law in the police, the defence forces have taken another guide. I spoke to the Prefect in the North. 1,500 police officers are in the North Prefecture, 300 have not been vaccinated. I said, what are you gonna do? There's a signal in the Defence Forces to fire if you fire it. They said, of course, they're not gonna fire you. Someone's gotta go down the street. Of course, it is not real that these 300 people are being relocated, and then somewhere in the office they write protocols alone. Of course, there must be clarification in society, but we need legal clarity for all these restrictions. What we need is that they are also subject to judicial review. There can be no control-free space in such an intense and uncertain time-frame for a fundamental right to be breached, which is being adopted here in the form of an individual arrangement. And thirdly, we also, of course, need this at least clear attempt through this legal framework to seek a social agreement. A social agreement, a minimum social agreement to control the virus. We understand that there are a lot of hesitations, fears in society, whether it relates to vaccination, on the other hand also to dissatisfaction with these restrictions, in society there is understandable fatigue in many people, but on the other hand, legitimate public health objectives, we defend the more vulnerable groups in society by implementing these measures. The Latvian President proposed his catalogue to the Latvian political forces, the Latvian Parliament. This has been the subject of a debate. I think it is time we too had to apply for such a social agreement on the principles of virus control. It is precisely this agreement that must reach an understanding through dialogue. But right now, I have to admit, these restrictions are very fickle. What was clearly stated a month ago by the representatives of the government, this month ago, from the black box comes a decision, it is no longer a criminal, and it undoubtedly causes widespread stress in society. And thirdly, the most serious issue concerning Parliament's competence. This is a sneaky, round the corner of Parliament's plenary mandate for committees, which was specifically a matter of these dates. The Isamaa Group is of the opinion that this is an evident act of anti- Constitutionalism, a hijacking of power from Parliament's plenary. When these laws arrive at the President's table, the Fatherland Group calls on the President to fulfil his constitutional duty and to veto it. There can be no other way around, there can be a double chance, if people's representatives are actually taken from this House, power away from the corner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U109	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U110	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, First of all, thank you to the Chancellor of Justice for an excellent overview. I understand that now that this year has not yet ended, there are already over a thousand more applications than last year. But the year isn't over yet. And the moments that viciousness and frustration have risen in society, well, it doesn't even have to be the Chancellor of Justice, it's enough to be a member of the Riigikogu or a normal person, everyone perceives it. Tensions are so high, distrust is so great. Indeed, it is a keyword, and the new President has also noted it. Us and them. Even what I had to deal with this weekend. It's so simple. Let's skip the vaccination. Testing. You want to go to the cafeteria or to the movies for a test? Forty-eight hours you can live a normal life. Then it turns out that the provincial city cannot be tested on the weekend. And in the end, there will be no grass in the villages and in the countryside anyway, they will chew the grass! I mean, you can't do that in the capital. A day or two before you write it down. But you can't if you want to go to the cafeteria. You have to be like a dog outside, eating with a plastic fork, if you don't mind, you can't go out with a real fork, maybe the police will come and fine. And the result will be two more days or later. But if you want to get a hundred on the same day. This means that life and the right to a normal life one day [pays] about 50 euros. As Ülle said here, it is overwhelming and discriminatory for very many. But that's just another example. For example, at the end of the same person, I got [to be tested] to call a familiar pharmacist. It's a matter of principle. And I said, "Hey, is it possible?" He said all right, I'll come and do it. I went to see, a quarter of an hour sat down, costing like 10 or 12 or 20 euros, I don't remember what he paid, and it was done. Right of life for two days. But it's one of many things. Remember when you were in front of this castle in the spring, the great police forces, the gardens, and whatever, when these so-called Nets people expressed their minds here, the great police forces, the dogs were chanting, such a delightful day for democracy. Or the ABIS bill, which we discussed in detail here, all these databases, will not go further. It's the same thing: right and wrong and shagging each other. But that's the frustration, the same anger. And what are we doing here? Jurgen's looking at me. Well, we're rubber stamps here, happy rubber stamps, although many of us realize we don't want to be. And thanks, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, And thank you for having some kind of beam of light. The Special Committee on State Budget Control is a particularly interesting place where people hear all kinds of things, how the Estonian state works and how nobody takes responsibility unscrupulously. But thanks, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, Maris Lauri was recently presented by us, talking about that, yes, how... We also asked that perhaps the Ministry of Justice should at least present an old kind of budget alongside this activity-based budget. The Minister of Justice said somehow that he still doesn't know...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U111	Peter, are we going to set up an extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U112	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U113	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U114	Thank you. But thank you for telling me that at least a little light shines at the end of the tunnel so that this inanimate bastard can be sent to the trash can. We will certainly continue to talk about how to do this, but the current new budget, which will soon come to us, will be the same warm, a little cosmetically as the body has somehow been decorated. So I share Aivar Sõerdi's concerns. The body will still be a dead body, even if you make a proper makeup for him. There's not much time to talk about, this is the same human data I was referring to here. By the way, the outgoing president has quite well spoken of our marginalisation or, rather, our coming out of it. I don't think anyone here dares say it, I dare say it: I think most of us could use some help, a real advisor. Watching millions fly unscrupulously, no one is responsible, then it would take the Riigikogu to establish, I think, not everyone, maybe who doesn't want to read the drafts, prefer to go to the sauna at the same time, then they wouldn't need to, but I do need to, and I think to many others, too, to be more adequate and actually run the country. So I'm gonna say thank you again for Ülle's excellent work. Perhaps it is also our mistake that we have not. I mean the members of the Riigikogu.. too much to address the Chancellor of Justice in writing with all these concerns. I also shake my head that the many problems I've had to deal with have not simply bothered or wanted to turn to your department. But Mr Sõerd has done this excellently and has received answers that can go on. So I encourage everyone else and myself to take this opportunity more actively, not to be ashamed. In any case, your office is doing an excellent job, but everything is from the client's material. These concerns that come to us could also reach the different places where they are being sought solutions to find them together. This, too, would help to reduce our marginalisation. So thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U115	Jürgen Ligi, would you like a reply? Please, line!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U116	Yeah, thanks! My name was called, but I took it as a reproach, a reproach on myself and an institution. I have always been disturbed when Parliament and the Members are called the rubber stamp. They're very different. I do not accept it, nor do I want Parliament to treat it this way and talk about its marginalisation all the time. I regret that I did not have the opportunity to have the right to speak, in the sense that only groups have it, not individuals. I would actually have liked to say, with all due respect to the separation of powers, to the person of Ülle Madis and also to the Chancellors of Justice, and actually to the current President, to say that this communication really should not be one-way between constitutional institutions. In fact, Parliament also has its own coordination mechanisms and influence, which may not appear, but there are also reasons why it does or does not do something else. There is a little lack of understanding here, and the separation of our powers has recently proved to be a little isolated. All institutions act only on their own wisdom and do not receive feedback on this wisdom themselves. Once again, with all due respect, even with the Chancellor of Justice, I would like to speak directly in this sense, not to mention the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U117	Thank you. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, Toomas Kivimägi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U118	Now there will be a speech by the political group, although [it is] also uncoordinated with the group. Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Honorable Chancellor of Justice! First of all, thanks once again for the excellent overview, which is both legal, educational, accurate, clear, readable. I don't know what the mandatory materials are at the universities teaching law today, but I think this Chancellor of Justice review could definitely be part of the compulsory materials. It is perfectly understandable that the review has given a great deal of attention to the corona virus, the restrictions imposed to contain it, the vaccination and their compatibility with the Constitution. Corona virus as a disease is undoubtedly a very big problem and a challenge, but in my opinion it is not much less a problem that the restrictions and vaccinations of COVID-19 have divided society more than anything else in the last decade or even this century, perhaps leaving aside political differences, political differences. This society is divided. Just as there used to be two Estonias, the first one and the second, the basis for such a distribution, I think, was rather material. But if we look at the division of society in the context of the COVID crisis, the restrictions and vaccination, then in fact, here, this line is not a treasure line. This is obviously a very serious, very big problem. So have I, with some of my good friends and acquaintances, actually, politely said, had a fight. The first one, however, which should be emphasised, is that the restrictions on coronavir in Estonia are among the least common in the European Union or, even in comparison with the very high value of civil rights in the United States. It's good or bad, isn't it really witnessed by time? It is certainly good in the context of economic recovery, and that is what the figures actually show, but, as far as the spread of the virus is concerned, perhaps stricter restrictions would have produced better results, even by looking at the numbers that are looking back at us. However, with stricter restrictions, we must not forget the so-called invisible victims. As far as I know, this term was used for the first time in the context of this virus, I think the Estonian Päevaleht, a journalist. This is extremely important, and I think it is a bigger problem if we have actually become aware even today. That is why I must once again bring one of my favourite examples of these invisible sacrifices. In fact, the British conducted a study that when one in ten British people was exposed to certain signs of depression before COVID, the number of people exposed to depression was twice as high during lockdown, when society was closed. That was one in five British problems. And that is certainly something that we must not underestimate when we mean which and how strict the restrictions actually apply in society. The number of these people, their invisible victims, was hundreds of thousands, tens of thousands of times larger than the number of people who were actually affected by a particular disease through the COVID crisis. In fact, the situation in education is equally controversial. Indeed, distance learning may be very good in the context of the spread of the virus, but let's just say what many school leaders have said: a disservice to education. I remember the words of a university teacher here who once said that a crow and a nightingale are both songbirds, but... Which is why I very much appreciate the clear attitude of the Government of the Republic to keep schools open today, i.e. to keep the school in the form of contact education. Of course, it takes certain risks and, of course, some risks will also materialise and some schools will have to go to jail for a while. Still, let us see what is at stake on the other side. I remember an English sentence that I really like: life is short but childhood is shorter. Perhaps what goes missing in childhood will not be able to be compensated later. Keeping schools open in this sense is very right and wise. I'd ask for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U119	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U120	Now the other one. I quote someone, perhaps it was the Chancellor of Justice, and I am very sorry: any restriction of fundamental rights must be imposed with a specific objective, absolutely necessary, and must violate the fundamental rights of persons as much as necessary and as little as possible. Absolutely right. And since I suggested above that the restrictions that Estonia has implemented were still one of the most lenient in the European Union, I do not think that there should be too much debate over the scope of these restrictions or over the rigour of these restrictions. What a question of the legal basis. When we adopt the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases, i.e. the NETS, the Health Board generally applies restrictions to prevent the epidemic spread of communicable diseases. There is no debate about this, this has been the case before, but it concerns such local isolated cases. Similarly, the nets also provide a solution if restrictions take on such a scale as we have now been forced to apply to COVID, then Nets similarly says that if restrictions lead to significant social or economic impacts, the Government of the Republic will impose restrictions. That makes perfect sense. However, there is now one such special interpretation that whether this "pronouncement rule" has been granted only in the event of an emergency situation or whether this mandate rule applies even after the emergency situation has ended. Here, too, the Chancellor of Justice has actually pointed out that Parliament should consider, as I understand it, the Chancellor of Justice has admitted that, during an emergency, giving the Government of the Republic this mandate and implementing this rule of authority is fully justified and understandable, but when the special situation has ended, it would be appropriate to consider whether the implementation of these restrictions should not be within Parliament's remit. So it's definitely a place to discuss. Urmas Reinsalu also drew attention to this. The question now is whether we will specify the mandate that is in the Nets today, leaving some frame in place, but let us make it more concrete and precise, or whether Parliament wants to take this mandate into its own hands. So I am a little skeptical about Parliament taking the whole decision-making process itself, but it certainly cannot and must not be ruled out. It's a place to weigh. The second, which relates to the government's order, is that these restrictions have been implemented by the Government of the Republic, which is by nature an individual act and, in general, an individual act should concern only a limited number of people or be valid for a limited period of time. Although the Chancellor of Justice also admits in his review that the general arrangement is between a general act and a single act and the restrictions must be verifiable, it is not really a problem that these restrictions are not verifiable, everyone has the right to apply to the courts, any citizen who feels affected. However, the question is whether it will work. Does it work? It's more like it's not working. The citizen is not ready to go to court with the Chancellor of Justice. So that's why you could kind of think about it. I was wondering why the government has not done so by means of a regulation. Why hasn't he made a decree? The devil is in the details. I read the same section of the NETS, which is a mandate rule, it explicitly states: the government by its own order. I do not know why it is so specifically said there that this act has been mentioned there. In my opinion, there could be a regulation in peace, and in this case the Chancellor of Justice will also have the opportunity to challenge them under constitutional review. And I think it would be practical and necessary. But since time has run out, I would like to thank Chancellor Ülle Madise once again for her strength and strength in this work for the years to come. Because the citizens of Estonia are well kept in your sight and the state is guarded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-21_U121	Thank you. And the English sentence Life is short but childhood is shorter means that life is short, but childhood is shorter. Today, the agenda for the sitting is exhausted and the sitting is closed.
