ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Good fellows! We will begin the Monday session of the 10th working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts and requests for information or make it known via the Internet, from a distance to those who wish to pass on drafts and enquiries. Kalle Grünthal, please! Do you want to hand over any drafts or inquiries?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U2	No, no, I don't.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U3	Got it. Then you have a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U4	Maybe we should settle this bill first.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U5	Thank you. A representative of the Government of the Republic has the floor. Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U6	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching five draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Act on the ratification of the Convention on the Protection of the Marine Environment in the Baltic Sea Region. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of the Environment in the proceedings of the draft law. Secondly, the draft law amending the law on the limitation of the acquisition of immovable property. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Rural Affairs. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Identity Documents Act and related amendments to other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of the Interior in the proceedings of the draft law. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and related amendments to other laws (revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure). And fifthly, the draft law amending the Copyright Act (transposition of directives on copyright). The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Justice in the proceedings of the two aforementioned draft laws in the Riigikogu. All five draft laws have been transmitted electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U7	Thank you. I now request the Riigikogu Chair Urmas Reinsalu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U8	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Together with five members of the Riigikogu in Isamaa, I present to the Minister for Health and Labour, Mr Tanel Kiige, an inquiry into the organisation of vaccinations so that it is clear in what amounts, in which volumes and which companies we have applied for vaccines. So, we ask the Minister to give a clear overview of how many vaccines Estonia has ordered to control the corona virus, bringing in the ordering times; how many vaccines Estonia has been able to acquire with a basic and additional offer, bringing in quantities and companies; and how many vaccines Estonia has submitted additional applications in the framework of European Union procurement, from other countries and companies. We ask what proposals Estonia has put forward regarding the organisation of the distribution of vaccines within the framework of European Union procurement. In addition, there is one separate set of topics, namely how vaccination has been organised in Estonia in an organisational manner and which official has full-time responsibility for it. The political responsibility of the Minister and the overall responsibility of the government, we are aware, but we want to know what this particular official is, in addition to the political responsibility of the level of full-time responsibility for vaccination. We also ask you to submit Estonia's current vaccination plan by group of persons and by volume. The last question to the Minister is this: will Estonia support the implementation of compulsory licences under the World Trade Organisation Agreement in order to produce as many vaccines as possible in different pharmaceutical companies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U9	Thank you. I don't see any more calls. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted five drafts and one inquiry. The Management Board decides on their further processing within the framework of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Let's move on to the messages. We have received one message: today, after the plenary session, there will be a meeting in this Chamber of the Belarusian political prisoners and the democracy support group, and the convener is Mikhail Lotman, a member of the Riigikogu. Now we're going to do a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U10	95 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 6. We shall proceed to the adoption of the agenda. Kalle Grünthal, a procedural question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U11	The procedural question is as follows. As I understand it, this is a remote session. But I read the following text from the smart book called the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, § 891 (7): "The President of the Riigikogu shall inform the members of the Riigikogu of the holding of a hearing at least three days before the sitting takes place through the media. In the case of weight reasons, the period of notice may be shorter. " That is my question now. Despite the fact that information has come to my e-mail about the holding of a sitting with remote participation in the Riigikogu, and maybe you have been there to tell me yourself, I do not really know if this session has been called by the media. If we insist on following the coronal rules, we say that there must be no shops open, etc., but we do other things with the right to do so, which are not the result of the law, then I do not think that is right. My question is: through which media have the public been informed of this remote sitting?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U12	Thank you, Mr Grünthal. If I am not mistaken, we discussed it at the end of March when we had, according to the working schedule, the last week of the month in the Riigikogu, and the decision at that time was that in April we would do Riigikogu meetings in the form of distance sessions. Then it was the decision of the board. If you ask which media information has been provided, I say that the Public Relations Department of the Riigikogu has sent a corresponding notification. I don't have that message at hand right now. Indrek Saar, a procedural question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U13	[[Remote connection]] Hello! Thank you, Mr President. My question to the President is this: have you had contact with the State Chancellery? We are talking about the possible addition of this week's agenda to the Prime Minister's address on the subject proposed by the Social Democrats. Last week it clearly showed that something that the government association has declared to be a priority, or vaccination, does not want to work at all. Given how time-critical this issue is, the Socialist Group today proposed to the Prime Minister in the form of a letter to come to the Riigikogu meeting as soon as possible, preferably as soon as tomorrow, in order to unravel this issue and jointly seek solutions with the Riigikogu. Has the Prime Minister informed the governing board of the Riigikogu when he might have the opportunity to come to the Riigikogu, and could we then add an item to the agenda this week?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U14	Thank you, Mr. Indrek Saar. I have had a conversation with the Prime Minister on this subject today on the basis of your proposal. The Prime Minister has replied that he wishes to be before the Riigikogu, as provided for in our organisation of work, at Question Time. He has not expressed his wish to come to the Riigikogu before the plenary session earlier, but he is at the parental council on Wednesday morning and at Question Time on Wednesday. So, yeah, we've had this conversation with him today. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U15	Thank you. I mean, I still did not get an answer to my question concerning the means through which members of the Riigikogu have been informed. Here the female Members of the Reform Party said that there is, but I do not know the media such as 'on-is'. Maybe you'll call it off. What if the decision of the body of elders was the basis for this, however, I would like to know through which media information has been passed on. Maybe I've missed it in my inconspicuousness.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U16	Thank you, Mr Grünthal. I would certainly ask the Chancellery of the Riigikogu to provide you with a precise explanation of how information has been made, which media. So I'm definitely asking you to inform me about this. Mr. Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U17	Then I'm about to ask you a question. If you do not now know which media information has been passed on, I wonder if it has been done at all, means through the media. How, then, can we proceed with the hearing if we do not know whether this requirement of law has been fulfilled or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U18	Thank you. I'm sure you'll have to check it out. I very much hope that you and other members of the Riigikogu will also be given this information by e-mail as soon as possible. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U19	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Will we now begin to repeat exactly the situation we had a few weeks ago, where we had a very emergency situation, and Parliament wanted the Prime Minister to come before the Riigikogu and we could discuss the matter together? Is this the same thing starting again? I would remind you that Question Time is not the format in which we can fully discuss these issues, and the body of elders is not that format either. So I also ask when the Prime Minister will come to the Riigikogu to talk to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U20	Thank you, good questioner. Certainly this format, which is the plenary of the Riigikogu, is not the body of parents, it was simply said to be information. Due to the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, if you look at § 155, the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and ministers have the right to make a political statement at the Riigikogu meeting. Other officials present at the session of the Riigikogu with presentations or reviews provided for in the Constitution or Act of the Republic of Estonia. In order for the performance to take place, it may be necessary to address the Riigikogu with a statement on these institutions or on these persons. As I said in reply to Indrek Island, the Prime Minister has not made this appeal. He has said that he will come to the Riigikogu on Wednesday for an information session, which was his reply to me today. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U21	[[Remote connection]] I would like to ask the President of the [session] Riigikogu. Given that we have earlier precedents here, which the Chairman of the Riigikogu is in the role of the Prime Minister, i.e. in the role where, according to § 155 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, you can come before the Riigikogu with a political statement, I have the question: what is your position in the current situation, looking at how serious and time-critical is all about vaccination, and how many additional questions have arisen? There were enough questions before, but there have been many more this weekend, since we can vaccinate someone quickly and how we use our resources, who can be vaccinated with one vaccine or another, and whether after the messages that have been sent out on the weekend, some vaccines are not at risk of being used by a large part of society. These are all questions that need very clear answers and immediate answers. Would it not be wise, however, to try to find a format in which there is enough opportunity to disband this topic in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu, given that there is a very high public and social interest in it, rather than using the scarce opportunities given in Question Time? Secondly, is it not the case that Question Time has been given to members of the Riigikogu to ask the questions they consider necessary to ask the Prime Minister, and the Prime Minister should not prescribe what the members of the Riigikogu ask in Question Time. Once again, I come back to this: what is the position of the President of the Riigikogu? However, could we send a signal to the Prime Minister that the Riigikogu is expecting him in accordance with § 155 of the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure Act in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U22	Thank you, Honourable Indrek Saar. You've got that signal now. As provided for in the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, you have proposed. Now the question is whether the Prime Minister has a wish to make a political statement and whether or not he can come tomorrow. Today he justified his refusal by the fact that tomorrow he will have a meeting of the Cabinet of the Government of the Republic at the same time, also related to COVID topics. I'm sure he'd like to come to the briefing on Wednesday, at least I really hope so. So there's no way we can directly order a member of the government to come here in this case. A member of the government must express his own wish to do so and make a proposal to do so, but we have not now had this proposal from the Prime Minister. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U23	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, President-in-Office. In this case, I'm in Kalle Grünthal's boat very strongly right now. I want to stress that the session of the Riigikogu is one of the most important sessions that can be held in Estonia. This means that we have no room for creative improvisation here. If the law clearly states that the session can only take place if it is legally convened, and the prerequisite for convening is that the Chairman of the Riigikogu makes it known through the media, but at the moment the President of the Riigikogu does not know which media and how it has been made known, the session has been convened in such a way that it is not in accordance with the law and is therefore void. In order to avoid this, we should now know with certainty how and through what media the hearing has been convened so that the law is not violated.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U24	Thank you, Paul Pulpland! First, information was given, as I said, in March, i.e. as soon as this decision was made, to all members of the Riigikogu. Secondly, the relevant information is currently also on the Riigikogu website. So it has been available to all members of the Riigikogu, as well as to the public. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U25	Thank you, Mr President. I mean, as you can see, there are other Members here who say that such a procedure for convening a sitting is not justified unless we have evidence of the media means through which the sitting has been convened. I propose to you, Mr President, that we take a five- or ten-minute break, that you ask for this document from the office, or that I do not know where, and that you inform us of the media means through which this convening has taken place. I absolutely agree with Paul Puustusmaa's view that this sitting is not legitimate in this case, unless we know whether or not the order of its convening has been violated.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U26	Thank you. As I said, this information is available on the website of the Riigikogu, it is publicly available, and I conclude that the public has been informed, as the Estonian press will definitely take its information from there. So in that sense, Mr Grünthal, you do not have to worry, and we can proceed nicely with the sitting. In order to do things even better in the future, I certainly support. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U27	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Did I understand correctly the explanation given by the President that the Prime Minister has said that he will have a meeting of the Government of the Republic during the Riigikogu meeting tomorrow, where the subject of vaccination will also be discussed? In this case, it is not excluded that the Prime Minister could, however, make this request during tomorrow's session or arrive at the Riigikogu meeting at the latest on Wednesday with his political statement on vaccination. Does the President not know that there are any obstacles, such as temporal ones, why should the Prime Minister not come before the Riigikogu during the meeting of the Riigikogu on Wednesday with a political statement to discuss the vaccination arrangements?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U28	Thank you. Tomorrow, as far as I know, is the government's office meeting. What exactly is on the agenda under the COVID point, I certainly can't tell you. This must be asked directly from the State Chancellery. Once again, the fact that political statements are coming here assumes that the person who wishes to come here will make this statement. This is how our Home and Rules of Procedure Act provides. Let's move on. Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U29	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. I have a procedural comment on Mr Grünthal's statement. When we look at the dictionary explaining the Estonian language, published in 2009, as well as the online edition of "Estonian encyclopedia," all the various media and related technical tools are considered to be media, including printed journalism, radio, television and new media, i.e. Internet portals, and all information distributed via the Internet. It has now been sent by e-mail to all members of the Riigikogu and Mr Grünthal has also confirmed that he has received this letter. It also exists publicly on the Riigikogu website. I do not understand what the problem is that we cannot proceed with the sitting now. By means of mass information, the meaning of the word in Estonian has been communicated to all members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U30	Thank you, Imre Sooäär! But I agree that all these important questions, of course, must be answered. If the members of the Riigikogu have procedural questions, they must be given full and substantive answers here. I have now looked again, and I believe, Mr Grünthal, that if you look at your e-mail box, you will see the same: according to my information, on 23 March this remote session has been given in a form that will be valid for the whole of April, when regular sessions have been announced to all members of the Riigikogu. But let's move on. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U31	[[Remote connection]] Good President! I'll make sure you speak back a little bit. First you said that the meeting of the Cabinet will discuss this issue, and then we can ask in Question Time on Wednesday. Now you say that you are still not quite aware of what is being discussed there, and you suggest that we ask about the State Chancellery. Once again, as the Prime Minister wishes, but since we have not received an answer and Indrek Saar has not received an answer to his question, we must start to conclude again that the Prime Minister does not very much want to come before Parliament. And I would still like to remind you that we have to endorse the agenda today. I have a suggestion: maybe you could take a short break and call the Prime Minister and suggest that if he is unable to attend on Tuesday, because there is a meeting in the office on Tuesday, this really very important issue would be discussed. On Wednesday, I understand that we have a long day on Wednesday, but still, he could come to Parliament to discuss this matter with us.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U32	Thank you, Helle-Moonika Helme! I'm trying to answer your procedural questions. My answer to Indrek Island was that what exactly is the agenda in the government for discussing COVID, I really can't say. And I think we're still following the principle of being one prime minister at a time. Secondly, do I consider it necessary to call the Prime Minister now and ask him again whether he sees the possibility of coming to the Riigikogu plenary on Tuesday? We have had a thorough conversation with him today on this subject. He said he'd like some more fresh information tomorrow, and then Wednesday he'd be in Question Time. The Prime Minister knows that the Social Democratic Party has proposed this and wants to answer these questions in Question Time. He has not expressed his wish to come before the Riigikogu earlier. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U33	Thank you, Mr President. With regard to Imre Sooääre's explanation of the nature of the media and your response to him, I find it a very strange situation. I am not going to argue at all at this point with Imre Sooäär's view as to whether the media are being dealt with in the same way or in the opposite direction. Maybe he's right, I don't know, so I'm not going down that level either. He said that all things are available online and on the Riigikogu website it exists etc. And you grabbed that straw, that we sent you an e-mail. But remember, when I asked you which radio, television, or newspaper it was transmitted, you said it was published. So I don't know what the situation is. Are you lying or do you not know the reality of the situation? It's crazy for me right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U34	Thank you, Mr Grünthal. We still have to work this out. You can't go on like this if you're confused. As I said, this information is sent to members of the Riigikogu by e-mail, this information is on the Riigikogu website. And I also told you that journalists will certainly use this information, that the Riigikogu will be at a remote hearing due to the situation in COVID in April. Thank you. I hope you have less of this mess now, and we can move on nicely. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U35	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. I don't think we're in an adequate debate right now. First, we did a check-in, 95 members of the Riigikogu registered as present. This shows that it has been known to all members of the Riigikogu that today's sitting will take place, and there is no doubt about it. I would suggest that Mr Grünthal put an end to this unnecessary dispute here. Secondly, as far as the adoption of the agenda is concerned, I propose that we put an end to any dispute here as to what our agenda is. We have an agenda that we can start voting on right now. So we could go to the vote on the agenda, just as the Rules of Procedure provide. If there is a wish to add to the agenda, the Chairman of the Riigikogu has this right, according to what are the wishes and the possibilities under the Home and Working Procedures Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U36	Thank you, Hanno Pevkur! Let's move on. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U37	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! I know there is a hearing today, and most colleagues know that. But the problem is old, we've been trying to reach the Prime Minister here many times, until the convicting discussions, but the Prime Minister doesn't want to come. I undertake § 155 (1) of the Home and Working Procedures Act. It states that the Prime Minister is entitled to perform, and paragraph 3 states that the time is determined by the Riigikogu's Management Board. But in the meantime, there is paragraph 2 and it says, the Prime Minister must submit an application. If now the Prime Minister has not submitted his application, therefore he does not want to come, is there any way to apply § 155 (3) of the Rules of Procedure Act, which says that time is determined by the Executive Board of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U38	Thank you, Peter Ernits. As I have already said several times in answering procedural questions, the Prime Minister has said that he wants to come to the Riigikogu to report on COVID-19 and he will do so on Wednesday. I'll stick to that answer. But in that you are right, indeed, that, as the law states, the relevant official, in this case the political presentation of either the President or the Prime Minister or the Minister, must be preceded by a statement. Now we are also trying to overcome the seventh procedural question, Mr Kalle Grünthal, with you. I think we can. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U39	I have already come to the next point with my procedural question, which is to invite the Prime Minister here. In fact, § 36 of the Government Act provides for the competence of the Prime Minister and its second paragraph, paragraph 6, states: "... carry out other tasks assigned to him by the Constitution and by the law. "Dear colleague Peeter Ernits rightly pointed out here that § 155 (3) of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure states: "The time for submitting a statement, a report or an overview is determined by the Management Board of the Riigikogu. " As I understand it, you have probably wanted to set the time for Wednesday, the Question Time, but the briefing and this statement and the briefing cannot be identified. Tell me the date the Riigikogu Board has appointed to the Prime Minister. Well, let's just point the finger at this law. Please tell me what date this is. Let's cancel Question Time right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U40	Thank you, Mr Grünthal. You're really confused right now, and I see it's my duty to help you. As I have said, the Prime Minister has not submitted this statement, he has said that, according to the working schedule of the Riigikogu, he would certainly like to come if the members of the Riigikogu had questions. And I believe that on such a topical subject as the vaccination of the COVID-19 and all the accompanying questions are, so he can respond nicely to them in Question Time. That was his message to me today. Let's keep going. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U41	Thank you, good Chairman! The first part of my question is whether we would not be able to change this information on the website and put it as such: as long as we have an emergency. Because our constituents know that the government is our contractor. When the contractor says that the restrictions apply until the 24th, but we clearly state here that we are on teleworking throughout April, the people's trust in the Riigikogu is still greater than that of the government. Secondly, I am not expecting the Prime Minister here very much. I'm fine with the information that comes on TV, it's short and concise. If the others wish, let them. Speak for yourself.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U42	Thank you. Indeed, it is the wish or decision of any member of the Riigikogu who wishes and does not wish. But I think Mr. Pulpland and Mr. Grünthal had a very beautiful image here before: being in one boat. At least in that sense, we could try to be on the same boat, to get over procedural issues, and then we can go nicely to the adoption of the agenda. We have important issues this week, perhaps now we can go to these discussions. So let's try to get over the troubles nicely. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U43	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I still really need to get over one of the worries. I have this feeling that the Prime Minister is a little afraid of Parliament. And what bothers me most is that he wants to limit our chances of asking about the vaccination situation by directing these questions to briefing hours. However, I recall that we also have other bottlenecks in the country that we would like to ask about, and we also have other ministers in Question Time to ask about. In this sense, this proposal to respond to Question Time from the Prime Minister is not particularly adequate. Of course I understand, Estonians have such a beautiful saying, who can force the cripple if the cripple doesn't want to walk. Looks like that applies to our prime minister too. Indeed, we can't force him, and if he doesn't want to walk, there's nothing to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U44	Thank you. I say so much that really, you are right to say, Question Time is the subject of the issues that the members of the Riigikogu want to ask and understand about from the members of the government. That's the way it has to be. And there are certainly many important topics in Estonia in addition to the COVID, about which members of the Riigikogu can always ask freely. So this is an opportunity, in that sense, you are absolutely right. But let's try to keep going. Mr. Grünthal, the eighth procedural question. We're over seven, I think we'll get over eight. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U45	Thank you. In fact, it is obvious that the Prime Minister is fighting somewhere away from demons that he obviously does not overcome. The Riigikogu basically sits here with a finger in its mouth and looks at the whole thing. It would still be extremely necessary for the Prime Minister to come here and talk about the situation, but not in the context of Question Time, because you also know how things go in Question Time, but one thing is answered. I need him to come over here and tell me what's going on. Perhaps the Riigikogu can take an urgent decision or initiate a bill. It can't be that you can't swim, but they want to stay on the water. When will the Board of the Riigikogu decide that the Prime Minister will be before us?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U46	Thank you. The Board of the Riigikogu and the Council of Elders really meet with the Prime Minister on COVID on Wednesday morning from 8:00 to 9:00. And there's a prime minister in Question Time on Wednesday at 12:00, so we can ask the questions we want to ask. But once again: what you are pointing out, we will be able to react when the corresponding statement of a political report has reached the management board of the Riigikogu. When this comes, of course, the board and I personally will do everything possible to ensure that this person can come here before the Riigikogu plenary and make his political presentation. The statement you're asking about hasn't come yet. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U47	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! You kind of emphasized the image of being on a boat together. But as I understand it, the Prime Minister doesn't want to be on a joint boat or at least not on a big boat. However, certain progress has been made, because if the President of the Riigikogu was Henn Põlluaas, the Prime Minister did not even answer his phone. The next week, when vice-president Hanno Pevkur was, the Prime Minister didn't answer his phone. But he's answering your phone, so there's clear progress. Shouldn't we still call the Prime Minister? Well, I can't force him either, but if the subject is very important and the Question Time format doesn't allow Members to discuss such an important subject at length, maybe you should call him again? Because my colleagues' concern is obvious: I would like the Prime Minister to join a large boat.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U48	Thank you, Mr. Ernits. I don't know where to start now, it's like a beak and a tail open. What do I want to tell you? I believe that, in fact, the debate on legislative and executive power, the debate, the constant finding of solutions in the situation in COVID-19, is extremely important and important, of course. We will also have on the agenda this week, of course, if we endorse it in a number of draft laws relating to COVID-19. So if we could now overcome these procedural issues and, I would say, really very substantive issues, then we could go straight to the adoption of the agenda and then we could also start discussing the exit of the virus, throughout this plenary week. But let's try to solve the procedural issues first. Let's keep going. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U49	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I really do have a procedural question about the fact that we still have an unapproved agenda. For me, it is very important that we are clear on the subject of the adoption of the agenda that we cannot limit ourselves to the very short answers given in the Prime Minister's Question Time and the very limited information received on the possibilities of asking. We are facing a number of very complex, very responsible and directly readings of COVID, civil rights and police rights and various other issues this week. Without prior information from the Prime Minister on what government positions are, which are his personal views, it is difficult, in my opinion, to go to these discussions. I would therefore like a very clear answer from the Bureau at the moment. Does the board urge the Prime Minister not to hide and report to us, for example, on Wednesday, or does the board roll the ball, just as I do not want to offend the Presidency, but in his words he can read it from one corner of the court to another, without making a specific decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U50	Thank you, Mr. Mart Helme! I think that the bull must be caught up in the horns and immediately start to act on these draft laws and major issues that we have on the agenda of this week, which you have mentioned. Should legislative power put more pressure on executive power in any way? Sessions of the Riigikogu are public and I think the members of the government will also look at them. I'm sure the Prime Minister will also look and see that interest. And as I said, the Prime Minister comes before the Riigikogu. He really said that tomorrow there would be a long-term meeting of the cabinet, where the topics of COVID would be discussed, and on Wednesday he would like to come to the Riigikogu. True, not with a political statement, but in the form of Question Time. But I will see that there are now several procedural questions. I would first like to have a little suggestion for you: if possible, we could go to the adoption of the agenda. Do those who are currently registered agree with this? If not, it seems that the procedural issues that still exist need to be resolved one by one. Let's keep going. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U51	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Many of these questions in this bizarre debate that has now taken place were, in your opinion, procedural. But I have a procedural question about the impression that Mart Helme was saying that it was not possible to deal with any questions in Question Time that could be discussed in another format. Do you know any impediments to asking the Prime Minister some important questions in Question Time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U52	Thank you. Answering the other side of your question: no, I do not know any such questions. In Question Time, all questions that the members of the Riigikogu wish to ask can be dealt with. And in answer to the first part of your question, Mr Michal, I think there have been both procedural questions and perhaps a little more emotional questions, but you see, we've all got over it. It is true that eight questions have been resolved with Kalle Grünthal, but it seems that there are some remaining. So the ninth procedural question, Mr Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Anyway, I believe that most of the people in this Chamber, as well as others, say, behind the mass media, had the impression that you did not answer Mart Helme's question. You were talking about the usual round talk being made in Question Time. That's why the problem is that if you ask directly, you need to answer directly, but not talk about, I don't know what. Mart Helm had a specific question, but there was no answer to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U54	Thank you, Mr Grünthal. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U55	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Of course, I would like to come to the laws of artists and other drafts. However, apart from the paragraphs now, colleagues have a clear concern, not only about vaccination, but also about other draft laws that we should discuss this week. The Prime Minister's coming and being on the boat at large is very important. But my specific question is that the President spoke of the bull grabbing horns. My question is, who is this bull, whose horns we should grab? I'd love to grab it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U56	Thank you. That job front we've been given. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U57	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I understand that reform parties are rushing to defend their prime minister. But Question Time is a routine format. In Question Time, the number of questions is limited, the number of additional questions is limited, the time for answers is also limited. It is absolutely impossible to compare this with a political statement, or also face-to-face discussion, where all members of the Riigikogu can ask at least two questions. So here you go all the time behind this Question Time, come on, don't get ridiculous. Please don't get ridiculous! This is literally a mockery of parliamentaryism. If the Reform Party hastened to defend its Prime Minister, of course they have reason to do so. We don't have the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister is in close contact with us and lost, though in the Corona and lost, though otherwise lost, though his problems will be brought to the attention of the Minister of Health and Labour. But we would like to talk to the Prime Minister to see if he has any responsibility, whether he has a plan, whether he has a vision, whether he has knowledge that we do not have as Members of Parliament. That is why we want him to come before us using a separate format, not just in Question Time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U58	Thank you, Mr. Mart Helme! It is also true that this political statement is framed in summary. Sometimes there's no questions, sometimes there's a question. So, you know, time deficit isn't always. But now, good members of the Riigikogu, the procedural questions are over and we will proceed to the approval of the agenda. Indrek Saar, if you have a question as to whether we are going to adopt the agenda, I will still give you the hall call before it is a procedural question. Mr. Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U59	[[Remote connection]] Thank you! However, I would like to make a point of clarification: the Question Time of the Riigikogu is a very important place for obtaining information and, as a rule, it has been used to allow the opposition to ask important questions from members of the coalition. If we look at the limit of time that, when asked in Question Time, I certainly do not need it for an experienced politician and a member of the board of the Riigikogu, such as Jüri Ratas, to recall it, then on average, about a dozen members of the Riigikogu can speak for the current Question Time Rules. This is just a quarter of the opposition. But I am sure that a matter as important as the vaccination arrangements and the chaos that exists in it now will certainly also cause questions to be asked by the members of the coalition. Therefore, we are now quite clear about the possibilities offered by Question Time to deal with the subject and what are the possibilities when it is decided to take an extra time in the Riigikogu sitting in accordance with § 155 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, where this opportunity has been given. Then, of course, it is always possible to agree how many questions each ambassador has, but it is polite and, at least so far, it has been the practice that everyone has at least one question. This is more than repeated in the Riigikogu Question Time. But my question really concerns this week's agenda more specifically, the reference made by the President of the Riigikogu in the context of the discussion that has just taken place, namely the discussion of the vaccination plan or the discussion of the issues related to vaccination. The President of the Riigikogu said that there are also several items on the agenda of this week that deal with it or relate to it. Can the President of the Riigikogu state within which point it is possible for members of the Riigikogu to discuss vaccination with the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U60	Thank you. My point was that this week there are several items on the agenda relating to COVID-19, for example, when we take budgetary issues or other legislative issues that are planned this week. So here are a number of such draft laws that are actually linked to the situation of the same virus. Let us now go to the adoption of the agenda. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the approval of the agenda for the 10th working week of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U61	The agenda for this week has been confirmed with 70 abstentions, 15 abstentions and 4 abstentions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U62	Let's move on to the agenda. Today's first item is the first reading of the Draft Amending Act 356 on the State Budget Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The floor is presented by Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimitus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U63	[[Remote connection]] Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! You have before you a draft relating to the smooth implementation of the Supplementary Budget Act of the Estonian State of 2021 and the support programmes contained in the Act. As with the additional budget related to the crisis adopted a year ago, the general conditions, which are the general framework and which must be the basis for the establishment of their support programmes, must first be confirmed. This bill itself, which is in front of you, is not very voluminous. It consists of two changes. First of all, the amendment to § 531 (2) gives the Minister the opportunity, by means of an administrative agreement, to authorise the administrative task of carrying out a national support programme in order to grant it to a national foundation and to a foundation established with the participation of the State. As a concrete example, if it is currently possible to designate EAS, Enterprise Estonia as the implementer of the grant funds, the current set of rules does not allow, for example, the Sport Training and Information Foundation to be designated as the implementer of support programmes in the field of sport. The practical need that the Minister of Culture needs to implement the additional budget for 2021 smoothly. The second amendment concerns § 813. This is necessary in order for the Government of the Republic to be empowered to establish the general conditions already mentioned for this year's additional budget. Paragraph 2 of this same paragraph states that if the Minister later introduces support measures in his field, he must comply with the general conditions which the Government of the Republic confirms. Such changes. I ask you to support them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U64	Thank you very much. Any questions for the Minister of Finance? There are no questions. We will proceed with the next presentation and I will ask Erki Savisaare, Chairman of the Finance Committee, to wait for the Riigikogu Chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the draft law amending the State Budget Act at the meeting on 23 March 356. As representative of the initiator, the bill was presented by Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, giving an overview of the contents as well as a moment ago in this large hall. That didn't raise a lot of questions. It was asked whether it was possible to examine the draft regulation. The Minister of Finance was completely in agreement with this and today the draft regulation has arrived at the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Aivar Kokal, a Member of the Commission, was reminded of the previous additional budget procedure, where there was a lot of criticism that the explanatory memorandum tried to dismantle very precisely how some measure was used, but later it became clear that this did not happen. Aivar Kokk wanted explanatory material to be available before the second reading of the draft. The Minister of Finance accepted this proposal. The Commission made a consensual decision that the first reading of this draft law could be concluded today, and the deadline for the amendments was set at 5.15 p.m. on Wednesday 7 April. It was supported by 7 members of the Commission and against 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U66	Thank you, good waitress. Wait a minute! Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you! Do you want to open negotiations? We do not recommend opening negotiations, so we do not open negotiations. Now we have to go to decisions. The commission has decided to close the first reading of its draft 356. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 7 April at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U67	Let's move on to the second item. First reading of Bill 355 of Amendment to the Law on the Organisation of Health Services, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I give the floor to the Minister for Health and Labour. Tanel swing, please! For information, Minister Tanel Kiik, you are not to be heard at the moment. I hope this connection is in progress. You can't hear or see a picture in this system right now. This connection is still not working at the moment. One more time, we will try to establish a connection between the Minister of Health and Labour and the Riigikogu. Dear colleagues, since we cannot connect and connect to the Minister for Health and Labour at the moment, I will take the chairman's break of 10 minutes to make this issue clear and move forward with the sitting. Director's break is 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U68	Good fellows! The break taken by the manager is over. The question has been resolved as follows: the Minister of Health and Labour is in the Chamber of the Riigikogu and I ask him for a chair of speech in the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U69	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I apologize for the technical failure. Sometimes in life, digital things are good, but real things are even better. So I showed up. I will introduce the amendments to the Health Services Organisation Act. Draft 355 relates to additional funding for healthcare providers during the COVID-19 crisis due to very high workload, the need to pay overtime and the involvement of additional staff. Today is in a bad way a very symbolic day to process this bill, as a new hospital record of 727 COVID-19 patients was erected today in hospitals. In total, there have been around 6500 patients in need of hospital care during the pandemic period. In particular, the amendment of the Act adds to the Health Services Organisation Act a provision according to which, as a result of the spread of the virus causing COVID-19 disease, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund can fund the health care service provider or the ambulance crew manager for payment for the services, within the limits of the amount prescribed by the state budget. It also relates specifically to the proposals made in the context of the additional budget for 2021, for which I am counting on Parliament's support. More detailed conditions and procedures for the payment of these services are laid down in a decree of the Government of the Republic. An analogous provision was, as you well remember, last spring during an emergency situation, when additional resources were allocated to the health care system through the Health Insurance Fund on a proposal from the Government and at the decision of the Riigikogu to deal with the crisis. The total of the changes is EUR 59.3 million from the supplementary budget for the Health Insurance Fund. This splits from the budget view as follows: 2,7 million are for general medical care, 45,4 million for specialised medical care, in particular hospital costs, 2.3 million for nursing care, 2.6 million for ambulances and 6.3 million are additional labour and organisational costs for vaccination. They're all $59.3 million. There is no separate reimbursement, for example, from the sickness fund, which is also covered by the supplementary budget, but by a separate draft. This is because, from May to December, the employer and the sickness fund from the sixth day will compensate until the second to fifth day. Nor is there any so-called purchase under this specific draft concerning tests and the additional costs of vaccines, all coming from an additional budget, with the allocations proposed separately. So what can be done with this particular money, $59.3 million? The following costs can be reimbursed to general medical care providers, including primary surveillance centres: additional staff costs, extra costs for servicing patients outside the list, costs of emergency assistance provided to uninsured persons, additional study and procedure due to the condition of the patient, provision of vaccination services. The additional costs due to the increase in the number of calls will also be reimbursed to the provider of the GMP advisory line. The following costs can be reimbursed to nursing care providers: additional staff costs, the cost of prolonged treatment due to a crisis situation, the additional cost of treating patients and the additional cost of preparedness. The following costs shall be reimbursed to ambulance crews: additional staff costs and additional crew service costs. The following costs shall be reimbursed to specialised medical care providers, i.e. mainly hospitals, with the exception of dental care providers: additional staff costs, additional hospital care costs, cost of reorganisation of treatment units, cost of increasing intensive care capacity, additional patient care costs, cost of maintaining the financial sustainability of the service provider due to cancellation of scheduled care, additional cost of preparedness, additional cost of study and procedure resulting from the condition of the patient and cost of providing vaccination services. They are also specifically proposed in the draft government regulation that accompanies this draft. That concludes my speech. I'd be happy to answer the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U70	Thank you, Minister. Any questions for the Minister of Health and Labour? It is. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U71	[[Remote connection]] I have a question. EVEA has approached members of the Riigikogu and all political groups with the question that if the employees of the company are placed in isolation, or quarantine, the company must also pay sickness benefits for the second to sixth days. Have you discussed that this is an additional burden on businesses? On the one hand, we support companies with additional budgets in order to reduce their costs, but on the other, we are putting additional costs on top.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U72	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. As I referred to earlier, this particular bill does not really deal with sick leaves. These [provisions] have been transferred to Parliament and have been first-readed by the Government in the context of the Act amending the Law on the Prevention and Control of Diseases, as well as the Law on the Prevention and Control of Diseases, as well as in connection with the Law on the Amendment of Other Laws. But essentially by answering the question: it is true that the majority of close contacts can still be obtained from a family doctor in the usual way. It shall be completed as a sick leave in order to have legal clarity about the benefit scheme, i.e. the second to fifth day is the employer and, from the sixth day onwards, the sickness fund [to be reimbursed]. Our wish is to avoid disputes and perhaps to reduce unclear situations, the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice has also proposed this, so that the laws, both in the field of health and in the field of work, are clearly worded in order to ensure that quarantine sheets are also reimbursed under normal procedures. Maybe in the future the form of these leaves will change, not necessarily the number of leaves. If we look at the current background of the infection, what is there to deny, in May, when this bill comes into force, is expected to be significantly less close contacts and infected people who need a sick list than has been the case so far. For this, I believe, we are all working in Parliament, in the government, in society and in the country as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U73	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U74	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister! In what way and how should this particular draft and the money numbers in this bill respond and be a security wall if the moods and rumors that the press has seen after the second wave has subsided are true that workers are leaving the medical system on a massive basis because they are burned out? Right now, they're literally doing their duty out of a sense of mission, but they feel that when relief comes, they're not ready to go into the third wave out of a sense of mission. Is this bill, and the money numbers it contains, to some extent, a cure for such a scenario?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U75	Mrs Helme, thank you very much for a very well-founded question. Absolutely, health professionals have worked countless overtime throughout this crisis, they have worked hard, often with their own health, well-being, and what to deny, we know that they also risk their lives to help and save as many COVID-19 patients as possible, but also, more broadly, people who need treatment. For that, I'm sure we owe them a debt of gratitude. This specific draft really provides considerable additional resources for hospitals, as well as other health care providers, in order to have additional contributions and compensation for overtime and the involvement of additional staff, these are medical students at the University of Tartu, higher education students, employees of other health care providers as well, they are nurses, they are doctors or other health professionals. This will, at least in a material perspective, certainly help to compensate for the efforts of these people, but in another perspective, to hire more workers, which in turn means that the potential burden can be spread more evenly. Although we know that the resources of health professionals, as such, are limited even then, but, for example, when hiring volunteers from the student population, including the private sector, it is still possible to ease the burden on hospitals in terms of staff, in terms of people's overtime. It is certainly important that health care continues to receive the necessary additional money so that a collective bargaining agreement can be concluded between health employers and trade unions, doctors, nurses, health professionals, hospitals and ambulances on the other side. Certainly, any additional financial allocation to healthcare will make it easier for the Health Insurance Fund, as a health care funder, to fill the wage numbers agreed in the collective agreement, i.e. to provide the necessary hourly fees to all health care professionals both this year and next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U76	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U77	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I have spoken at least four or five times about this "coronataxus" which then brings people who have been identified as infected and who have been released from the hospital in order to make more places, to their usual residence, so that they do not infect others. At the moment, the situation is that people (very many people I know) who have been released from the hospital will be driving a taxi, a personal car or a friend's car or a bus, a tram, a troll in different areas, or essentially a mass distribution of this virus in a public space. Do you agree that a taxi like this could run in all hospitals to reduce infection? This would particularly affect the Tallinn and Harju regions. What's your opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U78	Thank you very much for your question. If we look at hospital patients and their average hospital stay and compare it with the period of infection, the golden rule is that people who get home from hospital are no longer infectious. Of course, it's a health care facility and a doctor's assessment of the moment a person is prescribed. On average, people are in hospital for seven or eight days and longer in intensive care. After all, the infection has generally taken place before reaching the hospital, which means that this infectious period is actually over. As a result, it is, of course, reasonable to use personal transport, including a familiar car, if possible, with familiar personal protective equipment for bringing a person home, and, if there is a more serious need, such as mobility difficulties or other concerns, then, of course, the health care institution will also assist a person in transporting to a nursing home or home, depending on where the patient is hospitalised.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U79	Henn Põllamaas, please! I'm sorry! Yes, Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U80	No, I had a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U81	Mr. Grünthal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U82	I didn't get an answer to the question, do you think that makes any sense? I told you, it means that there are a lot of cases where people who are infected are going home. What is your opinion on this? I said, what do you think? You were talking about the situation, but what was your opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U83	Thank you. We do not have this format to ask a further question by means of a procedural question. Just as we know about the Home and Working Procedures Act, there are two questions to ask the rapporteurs. It's an opportunity. So I'm gonna keep going. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U84	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Of course, health care needs extra money, because health workers are, as has been pointed out here before, on the verge of burnout. But please specify whether this concerns only those doctors, medical professionals, nurses who are directly involved in treatment with COVID-19, or all the others, ordinary medicine workers, because the situation has also resulted in their burden multiplying, their number being reduced and they too are on the verge of burnout. Does it extend to them? Question number two: maybe you'll specify a little bit of the amounts foreseen?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U85	Thank you very much for your question. When we are talking about the COVID-19 extra money, it is really intended for all health care institutions that, either directly or indirectly, contribute to overcoming the COVID-19 crisis. Additional funding may be available for hospitals, emergency care providers, nursing care providers as well as general medical care providers, including first-level emergency services, as they have all actually increased their workload. The additional money for the Health Insurance Fund, which, in the context of this specific draft and with the additional budget, is proposed to allocate EUR 59.3 million, will, of course, provide an opportunity to finance scheduled care from the rest of the Health Insurance Fund's budget, all other health care services. I also attach great importance to the additional costs of testing, acquiring vaccines and restoring the health fund's reserve capital, which we previously used to cover the costs of COVID. All of these provide an opportunity to channel available or settled money to cover the costs of the rest of the health care professionals and to provide healthcare services. We know that the debt of scheduled treatment is very high, you rightly said that this burden is actually high above the field, not just for healthcare professionals dealing with COVID-19 patients. Specific amounts of money. This $59.3 million is divided into $2.7 million for general medical care, including money for family doctors to compensate for mental health costs through a therapy fund. Specialist medical care, which is mainly hospital work, has EUR 45,4 million, nursing care has 2.3 million, ambulance service providers have 2.6 million and then additional vaccination costs, in particular labour costs 6.3 million. These vaccinations can be carried out by different health care institutions, it is a hospital, a primary family doctor's centre or a specialist health care provider, such as the private health sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U86	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U87	You talked about my first question, this coronataxo, that these things aren't like that, that everything is normal, that pretty much everyone is healthy who gets released. I don't know, maybe you're not familiar with the details. I know more than ten people who are in a similar situation. Let me give you just one example. The person was brought to the hospital with an ambulance, put up a little bit, took a thrombosis shot in the stomach, and when more or less the soul was already in it, it was said to call a friend and go home. He said he didn't have any friends, and he can't even go to the bathroom. But still, in the end, he was forced to leave on his own foot after a few days, and somehow he went. This is a life that may not be reflected anywhere higher. My question is very specific, answer yes or no. Do you think it's right to use a coronataxo to get people out of the hospital?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U88	Thank you for your question. So let me clarify my answer. Indeed, if there have been cases such as the one you described, which, although I have not been given by health care institutions with whom I have been in contact with, and I have been in contact with all Estonian hospitals during this crisis, as a problem, when these concerns come from the people's view, it is certainly possible to ask the health care institution for assistance for transport; secondly, to ask for help from the local government. Local authorities have also done so and supported people by means of transport. These opportunities are multiple in the social and health system, [how to help those who need transport services] and for whom, for example, some acquaintances, friends or relatives are unable to provide this assistance and support. To launch a further transport mechanism at national level, which would add to the transport opportunities offered by the health sector, the social sector and the local government itself, has not been proposed to me by any healthcare professional or health institution at this stage of the crisis, this has not been considered necessary. If you really have more of these observations, it is, of course, still possible to discuss it separately. But, as I pointed out, with such a proposal, I would expect feedback and concern from the health authorities themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U89	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U90	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! I have a pretty simple question. If you are satisfied with the communication of the Health Board and can it be improved in such a way that the signals that go out are in logical order? At the moment, it seems to me that they are extremely eclectic and maybe even controversial. If we still have mass vaccinations, people should get clear information.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U91	Thank you very much for your question. Communication is such an area, as I think you are well aware of, where you can always do better. Always. There have certainly been places in which messages may have gone cross, there have been contradictions, there have inevitably been time-changing messages when new information or clarifications have been received, both in the light of the experience of the weekend and in the wider context of managing this crisis. So there's definitely room for improvement here. On the subject of vaccination this weekend, I have been in contact with quite a number of health care institutions that have carried out vaccinations. A total of over 17,000 vaccinations were carried out. You could say that the vast majority of the vaccines, 70%, were used. True, 30% should be continued this week. I have also been in contact with private health institutions, the Health Board, the Health Insurance Fund, the Ministry of Social Affairs, representatives of the city of Tallinn and many hospitals across the country. This is, of course, to be even better prepared, better planned, better informed for the next time, and to avoid, for example, situations where conflicting information is beginning to spread among people, and it is difficult for a person to decide or assess whether he or she is or is not expected to be vaccinated and when he or she might have the opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U92	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U93	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I would like to clarify this question of Henn Põllea, which actually also joined my question as regards the bonus of medical staff or the channelling of additional resources into their remuneration, the increase of their fees. The question was, after all, who is spending this money on: whether it is only those people who are dealing specifically with COVID patients, or those who come from the so-called secondary sector, students, etc., or the entire medical staff. Henn Põllaas quite rightly pointed out that their load had increased as well. Please reply to the amounts earmarked for remuneration, overtime and other social benefits and to whom they are specifically intended for which groups.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U94	Thank you very much for your question. I'll answer you one more time, maybe more clearly. When we talk about this 59.3 million, it is intended for health care facilities associated with COVID-19 disease. In a health institution, specific staff may be employed in different parts of the work, for example, additional staff costs may also involve additional costs in other departments from which doctors or nurses can work in the COVID-19 departments. It is also possible to support people who are not directly exposed to COVID-19 patients. In the same way, it is possible to support additional pay for labour, [remuneration of those who have come from higher education institutions, such as the University of Tartu, who work in health care institutions either through traineeships or through voluntary work. Similarly, as I referred to earlier, in the case of primary and nursing care, a number of costs are reimbursed, which are simply due to this crisis situation, additional workload, additional patient service, additional studies and also to the provision of vaccination services. Maybe it's wider. But it is also important that some of the costs that are here should have been incurred anyway. This 59,3 million, as well as the Health Insurance Fund's reserve capital of 26.5 million and 12 million, which is the cost of reimbursement of sick leave, the cost of acquiring remdesivir 4 million and the cost of acquiring medical equipment, all of which I listed, are over EUR 100 million. These amounts are also with an additional budget, this is our proposal, in the area of health care, plus the cost of acquiring and testing vaccines. Perhaps the necessary additional costs to be incurred by health care institutions will give the Health Insurance Fund 100 million more money for all other health care professionals, including all other patients, to ensure that scheduled care is available so that the costs of COVID-19 are not eaten by the financing of the treatment needs of all other patients during this year. We know that the medical debt arising from restrictions on scheduled treatment is currently very high. In this view, they are mutually reinforcing, can be said to support and provide the possibility for hospitals as a whole, within the framework of their budget, to deliver both COVID-19 patients, healthcare professionals serving them, as well as all other health professionals who have come to help either with the COVID-19 department or, more broadly, to the hospital to serve people's needs for treatment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U95	Thank you. Good Minister, thank you! However, I thank you, of course, but you cannot leave this Riigikogu speaking chair yet. There are more questions. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U96	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Good minister! Perhaps you should clarify whether it is really fair that if entrepreneurs pay social security contributions to the health insurance fund for their employees, plus from day two to day five also for sick days, then now the entrepreneur will also have to pay for this so-called sickness quarantine days. Where has it come from that understanding that businesses could be burdened with another burden during the crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U97	Thank you very much. This amendment, concerning the reimbursement of sick days, that from the second to the fifth day, the employer and from the sixth day to the sickness fund, was agreed with employers and trade unions last year and approved by both the government and Parliament. It entered into force on 1 January, for an initial period of four months, in order to assess how the situation in COVID-19 has been resolved. We know that this situation actually escalated in March-April, perhaps rather in February-March, and we have really needed to extend this system. So actually, we're extending the existing system. As far as this quarantine sheet is concerned, I once explained that until now people who were in close contact often received an official sick list with a normal code on the grounds that there would be no dispute as to whether or not they would have to be compensated if they remained on the sick list. In order to be able to issue quarantine leaves in the future as distinct from the sick leaves, it is proposed to amend the law. This was also considered right by the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice in order to ensure legal clarity and, in some respects, in the view of health care, to have a clearer picture of who has been quarantined and therefore received the sick list and who has been infected and received the sick list due to personal need for treatment and illness. This should not, in fact, entail any additional costs. Rather, as I pointed out, given that the law will enter into force in May and we will see that the infection numbers have gone down, are projected to go down and vaccination coverage will increase every day, then in May and in the summer months, and I dare say that even in autumn there is still a significantly lower need for disease sheets for close contacts and affected people than it has been in autumn, winter and early spring.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U98	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U99	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! I'm pushing the last question. You said that the trade unions were negotiated, consulted and then involved. But you didn't mention the employers. In fact, all this burden falls upon them for such a solution. Then why weren't they involved?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U100	Dear Henn Põllaas, thank you for your question. Now we can check the verbatim. I think I said it myself. If you didn't, I'm sorry. I said employers and trade unions. Perhaps there were trialogues, repeated meetings with both parties last year, i.e. the Confederation of Employers and the Confederation of Trade Unions really on this issue, and then we agreed. At that time, the maximum level of willingness to make such a distinction was up to two years; the option was to make it for a year or a shorter period. Finally, it was agreed for an initial period of four months, and now it will be extended until the end of the year. Maybe it's a trial period like this. If you ask my opinion, I think it would be right to extend it in the future, because in fact we want people to stay home early if they are infected and ill, if they are treating their own health, if they are also affected by any other disease, if they are infected, if they are ill, so as to avoid the emergence of workplace monsters, and certainly receive the necessary support from the second day, ideally from the first day of the current law, according to which the sick leaves were only reimbursed from the fourth day. This means that three days was a person's own responsibility, which, in the case of lower or even average wages, may have been a considerable additional burden on a person's budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U101	Henn Põllaas, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U102	Thank you. I'm sorry, I must have missed my ears.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U103	Thank you, Mr Pier, for this clarification. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U104	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! I would like to ask what is the future of this voluntary platform that could make this registration better. Does the Ministry support it, in every way recognizes and assists it by supplementing it, also provides financial resources, or is it simply found that there is still a need to tighten up some of its own systems? The success of Estonia is that good solutions come from the grassroots level.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U105	Dear Tarmo Kruusimäe! I would be pleased if I had the opportunity to ask a procedural question myself in order to clarify exactly what was meant. But I'm trying to answer. When we are talking about a digital solution recently developed by volunteers to support the work of family doctors, if that is what you mean, it is intended to confirm and facilitate the delivery of vaccines in logistics planning. I have been in contact with these IT companies and venture capitalist Indrek Kasela, or Sixfold people, from the very beginning. It is very pleased that this development was delivered with the support of volunteers and free of charge to the healthcare sector. There were representatives of the Health Insurance Fund, the Health Board, the Ministry of Social Affairs, but the main work was done by voluntary entrepreneurs who took into account the feedback received from family doctors, recommendations, suggestions on how to simplify the work. So in any case, I think this is a good example of cooperation between the private sector and the state. If you mean this digital solution, it has already started, and in any case we will keep it going.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U106	Good Minister, no further questions. Thank you very much. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, member of the Social Affairs Committee, Mr Luck Pillaku. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U107	Thank you, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft law amending the Health Services Organisation Act 355 on 22 and 25 March. On 22 March, Minister for Health and Labour Tanel Kiik gave the Commission an overview of the content and objectives of the amendment. The members of the Commission did not have any further questions for the Minister during this debate. Then, on 22 March, the Committee on Social Affairs decided unanimously to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 7 April with a proposal to conclude the first reading and to appoint me, Mr Pillaku, as rapporteur for the commission. The Commission also consensually fixed ten working days for the amendments. On 25 March, the Commission discussed the draft with a view to amending the procedural decisions. In fact, Siret Kotka, chairman of the committee, informed the members of the committee that, since the draft budget relates to the draft law on the additional budget of the state in 2021, it is necessary that this draft be dealt with more quickly in the Riigikogu. Consequently, the Social Affairs Committee unanimously decided to send a draft 355 to the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by today, 5 April 2021 and to set the deadline for amendments on 6 April 2021 at 17:00.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U108	Good waitress, thank you very much. No questions for you. Thank you. Now is the moment when we have the opportunity to open negotiations. Dear members of the Riigikogu, would you like to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate, so you don't want to open them. The decision of the commission is to close the first reading of Bill 355. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 6 April at 5 p.m. The first reading is closed and the second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U109	Let's move on to the third item. Draft Act amending the Act on Creative Persons and Creative Associations and the Social Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The bill bears the number 360, begins first reading. I ask Anneli Oti, Minister of Culture, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U110	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will bring before you a draft law approved by the government on 18 March, aimed at resolving the issue of crisis support for freelance artists. The Coronary crisis has highlighted the shortcomings of the current law and created a situation where freelance artists are unfortunately unable to receive the prescribed crisis support under the current conditions. This amendment will help support the livelihood of artists during difficult times. The target group without a specific employer is one of the most affected labour market actors in the field of culture. Hundreds of non-creative freelancers have been left unsupported, as have several creative alliances already run out of grants. While, under the current law, more than 100 creative grants have been paid to non-creative artists per year, in 2020 creative grants were paid together with emergency crisis assistance to 1372 creative people. The current Creative Persons and Creative Unions Act provides for the allocation of money to creative associations only on the basis of the members' bounty-based accounting. The amendments to this bill provide for the possibility that the reserve of creative subsidies may exceptionally be increased from the state budget or from the resources allocated to it by the government, provided that the amount allocated on the basis of the law is not sufficient for the payment of creative subsidies to those in need. This will give rise to the possibility to pay creative grants to a larger number of creative people. For example, because of the corona crisis, the conditions for applying for aid are also temporarily relaxed. The creation allowance shall be the minimum wage paid over a period of six months, which shall be EUR 584. This entails social guarantees for these persons. Similar changes were made to the law with the amendment that came into force in spring 2020, but it was not foreseen that the crisis would last for so long, and they were in force during the emergency period and six months after the end of the act. In addition, inter alia, the payment of creative grants to non-creatives will be re-organised. From now on, it will be organised by the Ministry of Culture, and under the current law, it will be done by the creative associations. The procedures for calculating social tax are also specified in a situation where the creative person belongs to several creative alliances at the same time. In the context of crisis assistance, the Government of the Republic has allocated a total of EUR 5.8 million this year and would be an opportunity to pay out this support to those in need. The law is scheduled to enter into force on 1 May 2021. We are very grateful to the Riigikogu and especially to the Committee on Culture for its rapid cooperation. Dear members of the Riigikogu, please support the bill!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U111	Good waitress, there are some questions for you. Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U112	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The law concerns ways of working in the creative sector and changes in ways of working. For example, there are a large number of actors from the Creative Union, professional actors working through a private limited company. Let me get this straight. This law doesn't help these actors in any way, the partisans who get paid?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U113	Thank you for your question. Those who receive [salary] on the basis of an employment contract can apply for [subsidies] from the unemployment fund, but those who do not have an employment contract are in the situation that, if they are not also employed under a debt law contract, they are unfortunately not receiving the benefit and do not have social guarantees. I believe the questioner knows the system himself. But the point of concern is that, in addition to this creative support, we certainly understand that it is not enough for professional people, and sometimes very well-known people, to receive such income to continue their activities, this amendment of the law also creates the distinction that does not have to be this two-year break. In the past, at the end of the creative grant, when it was a six-month period, there had to be a two-year break and then could be applied for again. It is now possible to submit an extension application. It is also an additional change that can be earned if, during that period, such an option, a salary of one minimum wage, too, is allowed. This change was exactly the same last spring, when there was an emergency situation, and this nuance was then included.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U114	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U115	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! It is a good thing that those who have not joined the alliances also receive support. However, many who wrote their own blog three years ago are now suddenly writers, and so are others. In fact, the Ministry of Culture has very little to say here that you will receive support or you will not qualify. Such an idea would be considerably easier if we could separate the money of the creative alliances and the money of the outsiders of the creative alliances. This could also be done by a decision of the Minister. We know that competition for this money will rise in this way. My question is: is it conceivable and is it feasible?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U116	Thank you very much for your question. In fact, it would initially go to the Ministry of Culture, which will distribute it to the creative associations in accordance with the requests made by the creative associations and will also assess the need for it. It does not go to the creative federations on the basis of bounty accounting, because the various creative federations have a different situation in the crisis. Depending on the nature of the activity, there are those who are more complex and there are those who have done better. In fact, last spring's grants have already been used by many creative associations today. At the moment, we take the view that, if there are more than 6 000 creative individuals in the creative alliances, and there are 5 000 people who are not in the creative alliances, there are about half of each group who would need this support in this crisis, because this sector is very seriously on a break now and they have very serious problems with performances and contracts. In this sense, it does not come directly, but the Ministry of Culture is still looking very closely at this need and, on a need-based basis, this budget is distributed to creative associations and creative individuals. For artists, just when the application has been made directly to the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U117	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U118	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Dear Minister, Maybe you'd be a little more specific about what this creative person must have done. Does he have to be writing a book or writing music or performing somewhere or maybe I think I'm gonna do something tomorrow? How is this money controlled, or what are these terms? This idea and idea are correct, but it would be a desire to know more precisely how creative support is distributed to creative individuals.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U119	Thank you for your question. This legislative amendment does not absolutely change the current regulation on how to become a creative person or a member of the Creative Union and how to qualify for the list of beneficiaries, but here we are talking about providing additional opportunities for those who are beneficiaries in a crisis situation. At the moment, there are no new registrations. Creativeists in the creative alliances are more in need than bounty-based subsidies have been paid so far, and we are currently looking for the possibility of using additional funds under this law. What exactly are the criteria for becoming a creative person? I have to get this point out of the law, but I can also send you a reply in writing. I'm not gonna take that time here, maybe right now, because I really don't think I'm gonna find it so fast. However, as I emphasised, no support is paid on the basis of statistics, but is paid according to the application submitted to the Ministry of Culture. Creativeists who were not previously part of the Creative Union were able to apply for support through the Creative Union. The administrative burden of animal analyses increased during the crisis and the Ministry of Culture is currently taking over this procedure by amending the law. Here is the guarantee that applications will be thoroughly examined and the grant will be awarded to those who need it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U120	Eduard Odines, please! Dear Eduard Odines, you are not to be heard. Please, let's try to reconnect with Mr. Odines. You still can't be heard. Now there's something coming!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U121	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U122	Yeah, I can hear you now. I'm asking you to give Mr. Odinets one more minute so he can start over. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U123	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, A measure of every kind appropriate. Indeed, the creative and cultural sectors have been very shaken during this crisis, and we know that there are some subsidies under the additional budget. My question is rather that they are temporary measures that somehow help to overcome and survive this crisis. But the most important things are probably future issues. If this crisis ever comes to an end, how will this whole cultural and creative sector continue to live, when all the resources that organisations and people had have been eaten up? What measures are the Ministry of Culture planning in the post-crisis period to restore more traditional work in the creative and cultural sectors?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U124	Thank you very much for this question. Indeed, the Creative Persons and Creative Unions Act has been in force since 2005. Of course, this law needs further review. Right now, in a crisis situation, we came here to solve a very clear problem with this legislative amendment. At the same time, the Ministry of Culture charts the situation of artists more widely and problems with social guarantees. We're planning to come up with a complete change at some point. I don't know exactly what time to say because the process is going on, but let's try to do it as quickly as possible. This issue is indeed on the agenda, so that these people's social guarantees are better guaranteed in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U125	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U126	[[Remote connection]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U127	Good questioner, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U128	Thank you for your question. As I may have mentioned, there are two additional changes. One is that a person receiving creative support can immediately submit a new application for extension (it was a two-year break in the past), plus that he or she can do different jobs, receiving income in the amount of one minimum salary. I wouldn't go into any particular case right now, because I certainly don't know how to answer it. But the proposal for a legislative amendment is that we can also mobilise the money that has been allocated to artists in the context of the crisis. Because at the moment, if the Riigikogu supports our proposal to grant additional support to creative people, which is 6.74 million euros, then we cannot adopt it. So on the basis of the exact contracts that someone is carrying out, where he receives his income and how the Creative Union interprets it, I believe, these individual cases are dealt with by the Creative Union or, if this person is not a member of the Creative Union, by the Ministry of Culture, should this request come to us. So these are the exceptions, the individual cases that are not going to be brought out directly in this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U129	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U130	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, This is undoubtedly an extremely important draft for the creative sector. There have been quite a few articles in the press about how creative people have to live from party to mouth and go to casual work. This [draft] certainly gives confidence. Did I understand correctly what you said that those members of the creative federations who also received [the grant] last year do not need to be concerned that anything would be taken away from them? Is this, after all, an additional support and a change in the rules in the sense that there will no longer be two years of support without those who received [support] through the creative alliances last year, even in a crisis situation, so that some people will not get away from them, so that some will suffer because of this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U131	Thank you very much for this question. Many creative grants are known to end in May, and it is now possible to extend them. We are talking about those in need who have not received support at the moment, and they will also be able to apply for support again in six months' time on the basis of this amendment to the law. I think the most important point about this bill is that we are still offering social guarantees to a very important target group, a health insurance fund that is very important in the crisis. These people are in a very difficult situation because of the crisis. The earlier application of the Creative Union to 100-120 creative support, but now we are talking about 1300, and the amount of new subsidies we are assessing to 1800, shows very clearly how big the crisis has been in this sector or this group. They will not be able to go to the unemployment fund to apply for the benefit or to apply for the benefit from the measures provided under the Law of Obligations Agreement. It is a completely separate measure and a system for creative people how I say, which is similar to the unemployment fund system.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U132	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U133	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. I come back to my first question, which was not so much about the same kind of support for artists in the future, but about the exit and recovery measures for the entire cultural and creative sectors. How has the Ministry of Culture planned to emerge from the crisis? What measures have been planned so that the whole sector can reach more or less the same level after the crisis? What support measures do the Ministry of Culture have for the creative sector and the cultural sector in general, in addition to, of course, creative grants?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U134	Thank you for your question. The Ministry of Culture has submitted an additional budget application to the Riigikogu, the Riigikogu deals with it and there are all these measures inside. Support for artists is one of them. We are applying for 6.74 million extra budgets for artists. But, of course, there are additional cultural measures for sport and culture as well as for getting out of the crisis. But they're more precisely in the supplementary budget. More precise support measures will be available in the coming weeks, which will be developed and opened by the Ministry of Culture according to the fastest need for support. The different measures are different in nature. Those who have suffered the most from the crisis are working on the basis of legally binding contracts. If [part of people] can go to the unemployment fund, the Ministry of Culture will at the same time try to open up measures for people who cannot go to the unemployment fund. So there may be a few weeks of shift between measures, but generally we try to implement them as soon as possible. If the honourable Riigikogu's additional budget is approved, the Ministry of Culture is ready to open these measures.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U135	Good Minister, there are no more questions for you. Thank you! Next, we will hear the report of the Committee on Culture by Heidy Purga. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U136	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Culture discussed the draft law amending the Act on Creative Persons and Creative Associations initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Social Tax Act for the first reading of 360 in its meeting on 23 March through the video bridge. Helle-Moonika Helme, Signe Kivi, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Eduard Odines, Heidy Purga, Üllar Saaremäe, Margit Sutrop, Jaak Valge, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi and Marko Šorin took part in the meeting of the Commission. Commission officials Urvo Klopets and Carina Rikart were also present. Anneli Ott, Minister of Culture, Merle Põld, Head of the Legal and Property Management Department of the Ministry of Culture, Maria-Kristiina Soomre, Art Adviser, Marju Reismaa, Counsellor, Tarvi Sits, Deputy Chancellor of Cultural Diversity Piret Hartman, and also Vice Chancellor of Sport Tarvi Pürn, were invited. To begin with, the Minister of Culture, Anneli Ott, introduced the draft, as he did here in detail just now. I see no reason to dwell on it. But I will take stock of the discussions and key points that have taken place in the Commission there. Marko Šorin, for example, asked whether the administrative burden of the Ministry of Culture would increase by taking over the administration of the grant from the creative associations and what the organisational side would look like. The Minister of Culture replied to this question that it concerns only those applicants who are not members of the Creative Union and that the Ministry of Culture does not receive any greater administrative burden. Maria-Kristiina Soomre added that the organisation of work must be changed a little, but it is within the capabilities and possibilities of the Ministry. Preparation for the restructuring of work is already underway and there is also last year's experience. It is also important to mention the question asked by Jaak White during the discussion of this Committee on Culture. Jaak White examined whether the regulation also concerns retired creative people. Maria-Kristiina Soomre replied that the current draft does not broaden the limits of the law. The law does not apply to students, pensioners, those on parental leave and also to conscripts, or to all those for whom the state is already paying social tax. The essence of the current law is to provide social guarantees for freelancers who do not have them due to irregular incomes and who are not helped by other systems either. A major and more thorough amendment of the law is in the work plan of the Ministry of Culture and this subject can be analysed. Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits examined the number of people who could claim support and whether, from the experience of last year, there were people who could not fit in, i.e. they were not considered to be in need at the time. Maria-Kristiina Soomre replied that it was estimated that there are 5,000 freelancers in need. There are 6,000 members in the creative alliances, but there are also those who are not freelancers. There is no accounting for non-members, but the last time the need was divided equally between members and non-members. Signe Kivi asked for the order of magnitude of the beneficiaries of the support from the Creative Unions and the number of non-Estonian Creative Unions and the criteria for granting support to non-Estonian Creative Unions. Maria-Kristiina Soomre replied that about 60% of the grants had become members of the creative federations. The percentage of those who lose support is not very high. The criteria for determining the aid are set out in the first paragraphs of the Act. In addition to having to operate in one of the eight listed creative areas and not to work permanently, the income limit has also been set. Creative activity is the most painful topic for creative associations that the Ministry of Culture wishes to deal with in the future. It is defined by copyright law. Perhaps it is a person who has created a work in this creative area and has also made it publicly available. It was also stopped as to whether the amendment of the law could be dealt with in the Riigikogu more quickly than the normal procedure provided for. Mr Black replied that the Commission would proceed with an accelerated procedure. It was decided to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 7 April (consensually), that Heidy Purga be appointed rapporteur (consensually), that the first reading be closed (consensually), and that the deadline for amendments be set at 7 April at 4 p.m. (consensually). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U137	Good waitress, you don't seem to have any questions. Thank you! It is now possible to start negotiations. Marko Šorin, on behalf of the Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U138	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, Honourable ambassadors both in the hall and behind computers! First of all, as a member of the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu and an interested cultural person, who consumes culture from high culture to underground, I would like to thank our Minister Anneli Ott, who also paid attention to freelance artists in the extra budget. EUR 8.6 million is a significant amount and this support will help to survive difficult times. Creative support is a temporary need-based grant for those who lose their income and does not solve all the problems of freelancers. With this bill, we will put out the fire, or we will resolve the shortcomings associated with the crisis. When the virus subsides and returns to the normal rhythm of life, the comprehensive modernisation of the Creative Persons and Creative Unions Act should be seriously considered. The creators' law, which was in force since 2005, was made in other circumstances and no one could have anticipated such a surge in the need for aid at that time. Compared to seven years ago when the current law was written, the working landscape has changed significantly beyond the creative sector. There are probably a number of additional questions about this with regard to the Minister's speech. To date, the shortcomings of the law have clearly emerged. The support reserve for non-Union artists has ended before, but at the end of the year, not on the first day of the year. There is also inequality between creative associations. The number of freelancers varies greatly from sector to sector. Their coping, at least in normal circumstances, also depends on the'market position' of the sector. In some Unions, the need for creative subsidies is smaller, in some, such as the ballet union, because of the specific nature of the profession almost no freelancers. It uses bounty-based support to pay scholarships one year later, according to law, so that members can do creative work and improve themselves. The sectoral gaps were particularly clear with the crisis. In 2020, 8 out of 17 Creative Unions ended grant funding. They received additional support for their members from crisis assistance. The money allocated from the additional budget during the emergency period of last year was a lifeline for many artists. On the basis of the feedback received from the animal opinion, however, there is a reason to look at the law more closely. The allocation of the allowance to the establishment shall be on the basis of a bounty. The Unions shall have the right to retain up to 15% of this for administrative expenses. For larger alliances, 15% is quite a lot of money for which several people can be hired. In smaller alliances, this work is done for a symbolic reward, on the tip of the knee, the head of the creative union, who is usually a creative person, he is neither a tax expert nor an accountant. The power gap came out acutely with the crisis. The distribution of animal support in this form is also very expensive. We need to analyse whether there are better solutions. It may be best to process and pay the benefits in one place. Another major issue relates to the definition of culture. The law defines the creative person solely on the basis of copyright in eight creative areas and does not ask whether the works created are at a high level. Our colleague Tarmo Kruusimäe, who said that every blogger is not yet a writer, also drew attention to this issue. Creative findings estimate that the lats are unequally low, as the Ministry of Culture can also apply for creative support by artists who would not be taken by associations among their members. The creative associations do not include many Estonian cultural peaks. The introduction of an obligation to join would certainly limit the rights of the creator. I therefore call for the draft to be supported and I would like to thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U139	There's no more calls. So we close the negotiations. The commission has proposed to stop reading its 360th draft. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 16 April at 7 April.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U140	Let's move on to item number four. Riho Breiveli, member of the Riigikogu on 25 February s. a request for an inquiry into the continued breach of the State Border Act in STS operations. Mr. Breivel, are you there? You have a word. Mr. Breivel's microphone, please. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U141	[[Remote connection]] ... since, accordingly, we have anchoring areas where fuel is being pumped, this has resulted in a breach of the state border law. The question was what has been done to avoid these violations in the future, so that these problems would no longer exist, and how to resolve the whole process at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U142	The Environment Minister, Tõnis Mölder, will answer the question. Is Mr. Mölder on the line? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U143	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good questioner! First of all, you refer in your inquiry to the fact that it was as if such transhipments had taken place in Estonian inland waters between the beginning of 2021 and 8 February. STS activities such as ship-to-ship activities have taken place in Estonian waters for a considerable period of time. I shall first refer to what this whole history of STS regulation has been. First of all, in the early 2000s, 2011 and 2014 included, there are different regulations that provide for bunkering in Estonian waters, as well as some STS operations. We know that in 2014 there was a serious pollution related to bunkering, which led the national authorities to review all regulations for bunkering and other operations at sea. In the meantime, these regulations and specific regulations were substantially clarified. The last major change was in the direction of specificity, with the 2019/20 improvement. First of all, in January 2019, Parliament adopted the Water Act and adopted it in a consensual manner. On the basis of the amendments made to the Water Act and other clarifications, the then Minister Rene Kokk led the Government of the Republic to introduce Regulation No 51, which specifically laid down all those specific regulations, activities related to STS operations. This regulation became significantly more specific, precise and better. It must be acknowledged that the public's focus or background in connection with STS operations really came up in January-February at the beginning of this year. Why did it rise? I think that there were different and many reasons, but one and important thing was that some of the STS operations took place historically, both 2019 and 2020, in Pakri's storage area or in the anchor area bordering Pakri's storage area. Since there is a likelihood that some operations have also taken place within the storage area, I decided, as a new minister, to ask the agencies to pause this process and to clean up and review all this STS activity in Estonian waters, including these regulations. Your interest was primarily related to the law on the state border and to the fact that it does not permit STS activities or, if so, for some very exceptional national reasons, and you explain your understanding of the whole issue. In practice, § 14 (11) of the State Border Act states that activities not mentioned in the first paragraph of the same section must be coordinated with the Police and Border Guard Board. Paragraph 9 (6) of the Act also states that, in the area between the border crossing point and the state border, the external border of a train, ship or aircraft has been prohibited by customs and police without permission, I stress the need for loading and unloading goods, i.e. it also provides for the authorisation of the operation and the authorisation of the competent authorities. Under the current regulation, those vessels wishing to conduct an STS operation in Estonian waters have had to apply for permission from the Police and Border Guard Board, which in turn informs the two other agencies: one of them is the old-name Maritime Administration, the current Transport Board, and the other is the Environmental Board, which receives this information. According to this information, the Police and Border Guard Board issues an authorisation for STS activities. This is the case under the current Regulation. I cannot comment on where your information comes from, that there are no restrictions on activities taking place in Estonia's inland sea. I'm sure that's not true. All these operations that take place in Estonian waters are very precisely regulated. Activities related to the handling of hazardous and harmful substances in Estonian waters have been specifically regulated. As I have pointed out, there are very clear rules, regulations and obligations arising from the law. I believe that this existing regulation, but also the new regulation of the Government of the Republic, which will be adopted as far as possible in the future, will provide a much clearer framework for this. You have information, at least on your own point, that you indicated that operations to pump liquid cargo from ship to ship behind the islands of Pakri will continue and this threatens the security and marine environment of Estonia and is a clear sign of the action against the legal order of the Estonian authorities. According to the new regulation, such activities are not permitted in the Pakri holding area, anchorage area and adjacent anchorage area. Perhaps I will continue to stress that this activity has been suspended and in the new regulation, which the Minister of the Environment has forwarded by the Ministry of the Environment to the Government of the Republic for approval or discussion, STS activities are excluded in all anchorages located in the holding area or adjacent to the holding area. In total, we will reduce the number of anchor areas where STS activities have potentially been possible, from 19 anchor areas to one anchor area and we will exclude all anchor areas around the Pakri islands, including bunkering activities in these anchorages. Perhaps, as I explained, in our opinion, there has been no violation of the state border law. I do not have any information that the Police and Border Guard Board has unlawfully issued any permits to carry out certain activities in Estonian waters. Certainly, if you have these data, they can be shared and, accordingly, they can be controlled by the competent authorities, including the Police and Border Guard Board, which is precisely assessing the threat on the basis of internal security and national border issues, as you referred to in your question. But you also had two specific questions that I would be happy to answer more specifically. The first question was: what has been done to put an end to the action immediately? As I mentioned in my introduction, indeed, when I entered the Minister's office, one of my first focussed discussions was precisely this whole topic of STS activities in Estonian waters. Indeed, I asked the authorities to stop this activity until today, and as far as possible from here on, in Estonian waters. We ordered a number of analyses that analysed the accuracy of the current regulation and the regularity of the procedure and ordered a future analysis based on how STS operations could be regulated in Estonian waters. As I said, we have drawn up, on the basis of these analyses, the new Government Regulation No 51, which we have passed on to the Government of the Republic, concerning dangerous substances and anchorages, where STS activities are permitted and not allowed. As I said, we have taken this action, which concerns the STS, from the 19 currently authorised anchorage areas to only one anchorage area. This is the Tallinn anchor area G, which has been selected in cooperation with marine scientists, given precisely that it is the least dangerous anchor area in terms of environmental safety. For many, this may be new information, but according to the current regulation, it is also possible to carry out the same activities in the Tallinn anchorage area G today. In addition, it concerns the entire tax system. You do not refer to this in your inquiry, but I would point out that if STS activities take place in Estonian waters, this will undoubtedly have a very significant economic impact, in addition to the environmental impact. For all this economic impact, we have asked the Government of the Republic to set up a working group consisting of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of the Environment, and together we will analyse which tax rates should be applied to this STS activity. One option is that we somehow differentiate the waterway charge in the case of this STS activity. The second option is (this is what we have also proposed in this new regulation of the Government of the Republic) that we create a so-called oil fund, whose financial resources we can use to assess the safety of environmental impacts, to solve environmental problems when they materialise, but also for day-to-day monitoring. There could be these funds. So this proposal, which is important as an economic dimension, has also been proposed. The last question was whether someone had been held responsible for illegal activities. The answer is that no illegal activity has been identified, so no one has been held accountable. As I have said, as far as I know, the police have received statements on this subject, and the police have not detected any irregularities in their proceedings. If you, Mr Breivel, have more detailed information about this, then undoubtedly the agencies are responsible, including the Ministry of the Environment, would be interested in this detailed information. That's all for short. I'm ready to answer any more specific questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U144	Riho Breivel has a very specific question. Please, Riho Breivel!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U145	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I have followed this whole process relatively closely, and I have to say that I am pleased that it has begun, how to say, to clean up the whole system. These things will certainly improve in the future and, to say the least, possible violations will have been put to a halt. I believe that this whole norm documentation will be in place in such a way that all parties will finally be satisfied with it. I don't have any more questions right now. If I find other problems, I'll inform you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U146	Yes, Mr. Mölder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U147	[[Remote connection]] I'll just add some more. First of all, of course, I would like to thank the member of the Riigikogu for their questioning. I also thank the Committee on the Environment for discussing this possible new regulation of the Minister for the Environment and the Government of the Republic, in very detail at today's meeting. The Committee on the Environment had further ideas and proposals. I hope that the government will discuss this possible new regulation in the coming weeks and will shape a common position as a whole, whether something else is going to be changed here or whether it will be adopted as a whole. It is undoubtedly important that, if there are any public questions about STS activities and the risks involved, they must receive clear and concrete answers. So once again, thank you for asking me this question. If you have any questions in the future, you can certainly contact the Ministry and the Minister with them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U148	Good Minister, there are no more questions for you. Thank you! We have exhausted the fourth item and the other items on our agenda today have been completed. All that's left is a free microphone. All requests please sign in. However, sorry, yes, we are also able to negotiate in the context of this inquiry. But it doesn't seem to be a wish. Then we are officially done with this point.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-05_U149	And now, after the hammer hit, it's possible to speak in a free microphone. There is no wish for this, so we have made good use of today's agenda. The sitting is adjourned. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00. Good night.
