ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-14_U1	Good morning. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the session of the first working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. I am prepared to accept inquiries and draft laws. There is no desire to transfer enquiries or draft laws. Incoming check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-14_U2	73 members of the Riigikogu registered as present... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] 73 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 28. We can start a review of the agenda. Clarification of the agenda. First of all, the initiator of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposaling the Government of the Republic to develop the terms and procedures for compensation of sick days' draft 289, which was scheduled for the first item on the agenda of today's sitting, so there will be no discussion of this draft today. Secondly, the Social Democratic Party Group and Riigikogu member Raimond Kaljulaid have proposed that the first reading of the draft Act amending the Social Welfare Act that they have initiated be excluded from the agenda of today's sitting. That would be the second item on the agenda. If no political group is against its withdrawal, this item will not be on the agenda for today's sitting. I don't see that... Yes, Fatherland! Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-14_U3	I'd love to hear what the plan was.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-14_U4	Got it! As one political group is against its removal from the agenda [point], we will begin with its agenda... Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-14_U5	Thank you. I do not have this yellow book here, but this procedure applies to the item taken off the agenda by the Commission. If the initiator takes the item off the agenda, then no other political group should have anything to say against it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-14_U6	We have approved the agenda at the beginning of this week, and the procedure still provides that if any political group is against taking this item off the agenda, we will start the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-14_U7	I would like to ask a member of the Riigikogu, Heljo Pikhof, as a waitress! As the rapporteur has not shown up for this item on the agenda, this item is still off the agenda. That concludes today's session.
