ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-30_U1	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! Good journalists! Honourable people of Estonia! Good afternoon. We will begin the extraordinary session of the Riigikogu, which I have convened in accordance with § 68 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, § 51 (1) of the Law on the Home and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu and § 14 of the Act on the Election of the President of the Republic at the time requested by the President of the Republic and the agenda. Just as we have, good colleagues, customary, the opportunity to hand over drafts or enquiries in advance of the hearing. So please! Please join the Riigikogu Chair Urmas Reinsalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-30_U2	[[There's a noise in the hall. The manager's ringing the bell.]] The current plans provide for the completion of Estonian border construction by 2026. However, the changed situation requires a rethink of deadlines and a much faster response. Regrettably, the Prime Minister replied to me, on behalf of the whole government, that, as there is no direct migratory pressure at this time, it makes no sense to channel resources towards creating barriers and sea borders. I don't agree with that approach. The situation has changed. Migration pressures are increasing across Europe and also in the Baltic-Polish space at the external borders of the European Union. In this regard, I and a number of Members of the Isamaa Group have a question to the Prime Minister in which we ask the Prime Minister, on behalf of the government, to provide information to the representative of the people on the basis of which the government sees no need for the establishment of border barriers as a matter of urgency. We are also asking what would be the additional financial cost of establishing a physical barrier to the eastern border and how quickly it could be technically established. It is also important to obtain information on the level of coordination between our government and the establishment of joint actions on the eastern border barriers of the Baltic States. We expect an answer from the Prime Minister as soon as possible, because this is an important security issue that must be dealt with by the representative of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-30_U3	Good fellows! On behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one inquiry, and the management board of the Riigikogu decides on its further processing in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. As this is an extraordinary session, the Riigikogu has a quorum if more than half of the Riigikogu's membership is present. Good fellows, let's do a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-30_U4	94 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 7. The following is the establishment of a timetable for the work of the extraordinary session. Due to § 52 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of our Riigikogu, the Riigikogu establishes the working schedule of the extraordinary session by a majority. The proposal for a working timetable is as follows: First, to hold today's session the first round of voting for the election of the President of the Republic. The sitting shall last until the result of the first round of voting has been communicated. Secondly, if the President of the Republic does not turn out to be elected in the first ballot, the second session of the extraordinary session shall be held tomorrow, at 12 noon on 31 August. The sitting shall continue until the outcome of the second round of voting has been communicated. Thirdly, if the President of the Republic does not turn out to be elected in the second ballot, the third meeting of the extraordinary session shall be held tomorrow, 31 August beginning at 16 a.m. The sitting shall last until the result of the third round of voting has been communicated. Good fellows! We also need to confirm the timetable for this work, so let us begin the preparation of this vote. I shall put to the vote the timetable for the work of the extraordinary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-30_U5	As a result, 93 votes for, 1 against and no abstentions, the timetable for the work of the extraordinary session has been established.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-30_U6	Good fellows! Let's get to today's agenda. We shall proceed to the first round of voting for the election of the President of the Republic. In order to introduce the procedure for voting and determining voting and election results, I would like to ask the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Election Commission of the Republic, Oliver Kase. Oliver Kask, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-30_U7	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! On the basis of § 15 (8) of the Act on the Election of the President of the Republic, the Election Committee of the Republic registered Alar Karise as a candidate for the President of the Republic in the first round of voting yesterday, 29 August. Alar Karis is therefore the name of the ballot paper. Before going to the election procedures, I will introduce to you the procedure for voting and determining the result of voting and voting. We have one hour to vote. The vote will take place in the lobby next to the Chamber of the Riigikogu. On the basis of requests received in the past, we also promise to vote on the vehicle in the courtyard of Toompea Castle because of health problems. Voting in the yard takes place 10 minutes before the end of the vote, i.e. 50 minutes after the beginning of the vote, next door. Due to the vote in the yard, there are two ballot boxes: one in the lobby in the voting area and one outside. You can vote outside without leaving the car, but there can be no other people in the vehicle at the time of the vote. While waiting to enter the voting area, please keep at least two metres apart. [[Summing in the hall. The manager's ringing the bell.]] We ask to enter the voting area one by one and follow the guidelines of the voting organisers. We ask the members of the Riigikogu not to vote at the same time, but to follow the alphabetical order of the list, i.e. voters who are in the middle or at the end of the list, not to vote immediately, but a little later. Only members of the electoral commission and persons serving the electoral commission may be present in the voting area other than members of the Riigikogu. It's in the yard where we don't let other people near the car. The Riigikogu Election Committee gives the member of the Riigikogu a voting slip with the envelope against the signature. Members of the Riigikogu must submit their identity document, valid document, such as the certificate of a member of the Riigikogu, identity card, passport or driving licence to receive the ballot paper.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-30_U8	Mr President of the Electoral Commission, I apologise to you for a moment. Good colleagues in the hall, please respect the waitress and those who listen. Thank you for everything. Please, Mr. Kask!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-30_U9	The vote shall be secret. The ballot papers shall be filled in in the voting booth. When voting in the yard, the voting booth is a means of transport. For the purpose of signing and filling in the note, please use either one-time or one-time writing tools in the voting room. Each member of the Riigikogu will probably have one vote already. A member of the Riigikogu shall mark a cross on the note when he or she votes in favour of the candidate in a square next to the name of the candidate. The member of the Riigikogu who does not wish to vote on the candidate does not mark the note. After filling out the note, the voter puts the note in the envelope, hands the envelope to a member of the selection board who puts an impression of the seal of the Commission on the envelope, and then puts the envelope in the ballot box. In the event of a breach of the ballot paper before the ballot box is placed in the ballot box, the voters shall be entitled to a new note if the note is returned. Before counting the votes, a member of the Riigikogu has the right to make a written protest against the violation of voting procedures. It shall be examined by the Electoral Commission and shall take its decision. After the vote has been closed and possible protests have been resolved, the electoral committee will publicly determine the results of the vote in this very Chamber. That's how it works. First of all, the Commission will determine the number of ballots in the ballot box, i.e. the number of members of the Riigikogu who took part in the vote. The selection panel will then determine the number of invalid notes. This note, which has no seal imprint on the envelope, is invalid. The number of ballot papers not marked in any box of the cross shall also be established. The Commission shall then count the votes cast on the candidate. The election panel shall announce the result of the vote by reading out the minutes of the election panel on the result of the vote. Before determining the result of the election, a member of the Riigikogu shall have the right to submit a written protest against a possible violation of the procedure for determining the result of the vote. Once these protests have been resolved, the electoral committee will announce the result of the election. The candidate is declared elected if he is voted for by a two-thirds majority of the Riigikogu, i.e. at least 68 members of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-30_U10	Thank you. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Do you have any questions about voting and the identification of voting and election results? There are no questions. I thank the waitress. Thank you. The Election Commission of the Republic is ready to vote on the election of the President of the Republic. I would ask the electoral commission to check the ballot boxes and then seal them with a security seal. (The selection board checks the ballot boxes and closes them.) Good fellows! We have one hour to vote. I shall give a signal of the end of the vote, after which I ask you all to return to this Chamber. It's at 2:14. I declare voting for the election of the President of the Republic. Break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-30_U11	Good fellows! Dear followers of the Riigikogu sitting! Break's over. I now ask you to bring the ballot boxes to the Chamber of the Riigikogu. Please! First of all, I ask the members of the electoral council to check the ballot boxes and to ensure that security seals are not violated. Quiet in the hall, please! [[It's ringing the bell.]] It's okay, security seals aren't damaged. Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you have any protests about the violation of voting procedures? There are no protests. First of all, I would like to thank the Election Commission for your smooth implementation of this matter. Thank you. I now ask the members of the electoral commission to start counting votes. Please! [[The election board reads the votes.]] Good colleagues, quiet in the hall, please. I now ask the Republic Election Commission to read the votes publicly. Please, Vice President of the Electoral Commission, Airi Mikli!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-30_U12	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I shall publicly read the votes in favour of the candidate for President of the Republic. Alar Karis: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63. I shall read out the ballot papers which do not indicate a plus in advance of the candidate's name, i.e. have not been marked, which have been left blank: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16. There were no bad notes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-30_U13	Please prepare a record of the results of the vote. [[It's ringing the bell.]] To announce the results of the vote, please contact the Chair of the Riigikogu, Oliver Kase, Chairman of the Election Committee of the Republic. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-30_U14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will read the minutes of the Riigikogu Election Committee on the result of voting in the election of the President of the Republic in the first round of voting in the Riigikogu. The electoral committee of the Republic established the following figures in the counting of votes. Number of members of the Riigikogu included in the electoral list The number of members of the Riigikogu who received the ballot paper The number of members of the Riigikogu who participated in the vote. 79. Number of unsuccessful ballot papers 0. Number of unmarked (non-crossed) ballot papers.16. Number of votes cast on the candidate for the President of the Republic: Alar Karis was 63. The Protocol was drawn up at 2.32 p.m. on 30 August 2021, signed by the President of the Election Commission of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-30_U15	Thank you. Do the members of the Riigikogu have any protests about the violation of voting procedures? There are no protests. Thank you. According to the President of the Republic Election Act, I declare a break in order to determine the result of the election and to sign the decision of the Riigikogu Election Committee on the result of the election. Break one minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-30_U16	Break's over. I ask the Chair of the Riigikogu to announce the results of the elections to the President of the Election Committee of the Republic. Oliver Kask, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-30_U17	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will read out Decision No 11 of the Election Commission of the Republic of Estonia of 30 August 2021, "Identifying the results of the election of the President of the Republic in the first ballot in the Riigikogu."
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-30_U18	Good waitress, I apologize to you! Very respected good people, who are in the Chamber of the Riigikogu and on the balconies, I ask for silence! The session of the Riigikogu is ongoing. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-30_U19	"The decision has been adopted on the basis of § 13 (2) of the Presidential Election Act and is guided by § 16 (2) and (3). Item 1: In the first round of voting in the Riigikogu, the candidate for President of the Republic, Alar Karis, was not elected because he did not receive a two-thirds majority in the composition of the Riigikogu. Item 2: Organise the second round of voting in the Riigikogu on 31 August 2021 for the election of the President of the Republic. Point 3: The decision shall enter into force by signature. " Oliver Kask, President of the Republic Election Commission, has signed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-08-30_U20	Thank you. Good Riigikogu! The extraordinary session of the Riigikogu will continue tomorrow, 31 August at 12 o'clock in this very Chamber. The nominations of the President of the Republic for registration shall begin at the Office of the Election Commission of the Republic (Toompea 1) tomorrow, 31 August at 8 a.m. and end at 10 a.m. The Election Commission of the Republic shall register the candidates of the President of the Republic before the beginning of the second round of voting. The sitting is adjourned.
