ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U1	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. After all, our views have been shaped according to Estonia's positions. The approval given by us last summer by the Prime Minister on behalf of the government at the time will not change. So I think we can shape our position on the basis of our own knowledge and analysis, and we already have them. There's no reason to stall it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U2	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U3	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. As we know, today's government is a policy of agreeing to everything in the European Union's policy, whether it is useful to us or not. Perhaps, as Foreign Minister Liimets said, active yes-policy. There are a number of countries in the European Union with a loan burden of more than 100% or almost 200%. What happens if one of them leaves or doesn't pay back the loan part of the recovery plan? This burden falls on other countries. The cover of the Estonian kroon was probably the Estonian forest. We have nothing else, because today's government is going to shut down oil shale mines, power plants, the oil shale chemical industry, etc. Are you really going to take down the entire Estonian forest to repay a foreign debt? Even if money is ever recovered from an unpaying state, we still have no forest. Does it really improve our state of life?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U4	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Honourable Henn Põllamaas! The current government, unlike the previous government, plans to reduce logging pressure on the Estonian forest. On this question, which you asked, it must be said that there is not much to do with the draft, but since you asked, let it be said here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U5	Oudekki Loone.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U6	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Thank you, Madam Minister, for this introduction. I am very pleased to see that, since the previous crisis, lessons have been learned and understood throughout Europe that Gates was broadly right. However, this re-launch plan is not the only response to the economic difficulties associated with the pandemic. The European Central Bank also reacted very strongly with its large asset purchase programme. This latter allows Member States to issue public debt in order to use money when they want what they want, regardless of the priorities or rules of the bureaucrats of the European Commission. Not to mention that if we really have to pay back the re-launch fund in a certain way, in the case of sovereign debt, we would basically be spending interest, which is currently not very high in Estonia. Does it not seem to you in this situation that this re-launch plan is not, in fact, the most sensible way for Estonia and the other Member States to reinvigorate the economy? It's better to be free in politics and free of charge than to be tied up and paid for.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U7	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. No loan is ever free of charge and all loans must always be repaid. The re-launch plan, as I replied to some of the previous questioners, is the support for coming out of the crisis. Both the re-launch plan as a whole, the re-launch facility, the immediate crisis relief REACT-EU, which will very much help our healthcare system to cope with the current crisis, and the remaining opportunities will certainly be important support and help to overcome the crisis with renewed momentum. I also stressed earlier that all the crisis situation and support that comes out of the crisis through the re-launch plan should not, in my opinion, be seen at the heart of just one country, just one Member State, Estonia. For us, it is important that the European Union as a whole comes out of this as soon as possible and with as little loss as possible. The re-launch plan will certainly contribute to this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U8	Henn Põllaas, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U9	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I would like to ask the Minister to comment. We've seen how to spin and answer questions. But such a skinny claim, as if my question had not touched on this subject, so I have never met this practice before. My question directly touched on this bill on the table and concerned where, in the event that a Member State does not pay back the loan, Estonia will take the money to repay the foreign debt. I'm asking, and I'm actually demanding that the minister answer to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U10	Thank you, Mr. Pier. I'm sure it's going to be written on the verbatim. We're gonna go ahead with the questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U11	[[Remote connection]] Good manager and minister! Let's talk about this plastic tax. Some colleagues say it's not a tax. Well, he's a cookie-pie-pie, isn't he? But as a member of the Committee on the Environment, I've seen this shit since Rainer Vakra was chairman of the Committee on the Environment. We've been working on it for 18 months. Now it's been two years and the picture isn't, I'll be honest, though rosy. I'm asking you: Bridle-bite tax depends on how much plastic we can recycle. It's going really hard. How low can we take it from that 11 million, in fact, you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U12	[[Remote connection]] Now, if the President of the honourable Riigikogu does not mind, I am a little distracted from the question put by Mr Ernitsa and I will answer Henn Põllea first as a procedural question. But since the Rules of Procedure did not allow me to respond immediately, I am simply taking this opportunity. If that's how you figured it out, I'm sorry. Since Henn Põllea's question was whether we were going to take down the entire forest of Estonia in order to repay the loan, my answer was that, on the contrary, we certainly intend to reduce the pressure of logging and this has nothing to do with this particular draft. Indeed, forest matters do not concern this bill. But if the question was about loan repayments, then, as has been said, they are now around 0.13% of our GDP in Estonia with the current level of GDP. In size, it is 34 million euros per year, which will definitely decrease significantly as a ratio to GDP. As I have said many times, a situation in which some Member States do not fulfil their obligations to the European Union budget has not existed before. Although it is now, and it has been, right in the past that, should a country fail, it is proportionate to ask the other Member States temporarily for this payment to be paid. If this happens, then this means that the share of Estonia will also be slightly larger in proportion. There is no reason to believe that this would happen if it had never occurred before. It is then such a pure legal side or framework. But once again, it is just weird that if the sums of service have increased dramatically over the last few years, if Estonia's own debt is repaid or, let's say, the sums of service have increased dramatically, then one of these today's questioners, who is concerned about the current repayment of 34 million, has not been concerned that our repayments and servicing of debt will reach almost 500 million this year. This is the case with Estonia's own debt. If you were really worried about this, you would probably have been worried about the burden of earning this order of magnitude over the last few years. Only 34 million and 0.13% of GDP entanglement just doesn't seem very credible. Going to the question of Peeter Ernits: it would, of course, be ideal if, instead of this 11 million, it were zero so that we could meet our recycling targets for plastic packaging. I may have said, in answer to Mr Ossinovski's question, that in addition to motivating the collection system, one way to bring this figure down is that we have fewer and fewer packaging that comes on the market. In addition, incentives to replace or reduce packaging are also needed. By way of example: the Traders' Association has done a pretty good job among its members to make recommendations on how to reduce the introduction of packages. I think we have it in a pretty early stage, and there's at least as long a way to go as to make the collection itself more affordable and comfortable.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U13	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U14	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Secretary! You have referred here to the fact that so far, all countries in the European Union have repaid their loans. The critics of this system or the loan say that now we may be tempted to borrow ourselves and leave the European Union, but Germany will pay off its debts. But that's it. You also referred to the fact that the analysis of the University of Tartu said that everything is very good and we can accept this agreement. It wasn't like that. The analysis said that, under certain conditions, this would not be acceptable. However, if we look again at Article 310 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, it is again said in black and white that there must be a balance between revenue and expenditure in the European Union. A total of 750 billion. I haven't seen money as creatively as you, but I see a 750-billion-dollar hole here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U15	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. This point you have referred to has been analysed by legal experts and it has been found that there is no conflict with the Treaty.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U16	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U17	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I will first comment on one of your answers, where you said that this recovery package will bring us a lot of money and benefits and benefits, that 199 million to Ida-Virumaa is some terrible amount of money that we should be terribly happy about. But we're shutting down an oil plant that will generate EUR 400 million in revenue and give 100 million in tax revenue to the Treasury alone. Thousands of people will be unemployed throughout the mining sector and in the energy sector. This 190 million is not enough to even retrain. But my question is that we know that this recovery package is very clearly linked by the European Union to compliance with the rule of law recently. We already have two countries where the European Union has threatened to lose this money at all. My question is how, in this case, it is regulated whether those countries of the European Union that do not receive money because of alleged violations of value standards must also participate in repayment or how it will be in their case.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U18	Honourable questioner, I apologize, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U19	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. First of all, 199 million is the additional money that will be added to the fair transfer fund, purely through this re-launching scheme. However, the total amount is more than EUR 350 million. It is purely and only from a fair transition fund, plus the rest of the European Union funds, several times as much as we are talking about Ida-Virumaa. So Ida-Virumaa is also a good example of how it is precisely with the support of the European Union that it is possible to make very big changes, very large investments that Estonia's own taxpayers' money, Estonia's own budget, we would do for decades. This also no longer concerns only the current fair transfer fund, but also the earlier investments made in Ida-Virumaa, such as water infrastructure or major environmental clean-up projects. It is simply our own budget that would certainly not have made it possible to do so so so quickly and on such a scale. As far as the disputes you have referred to are concerned, it is currently not known that those Member States that have had or are currently in dispute with the European Commission would somehow link the entry into force or implementation of the recovery plan with the ongoing dispute. There's no such information right now. All Member States of the European Union shall participate in the repayment of this joint loan to the budget of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U20	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U21	[[Remote connection]] Thank you! I should say it's not very good to start talking here again about you and us. In the current crisis, we must all come out together, here to make this difference... But in relation to these European winds of attraction, I remember the first Rock Summer when the foreigners were spoken to and they said that you still have a very ecological environment, you have glass containers and things are packed in paper. Well, what you're saying is, we hadn't just gotten into the plastic age yet. It turns out that, in fact, if we had stayed in the exact same place and not gone along with these changes, we would be a special-arm hipster country today. My question is: what are these faster steps? The glass box back, drinking a beer from a three-litre glass jar, that's perfectly normal, no for any plastic was the point?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U22	[[Remote connection]] Well, I'm sure it's an interesting idea late at night, but I'd rather use the reusable packaging as drinking cups.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U23	Eduard Odines.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The government approved the distribution of the RSF support by its Cabinet Decision of 4 March. According to this, no cent is foreseen for the creative and cultural sectors that have suffered very badly during the crisis. However, the sector employs more than 30,000 people and represents 3% of our GDP, and the European Parliament has adopted a resolution in which it urges all Member States to devote at least 2% of this money to the recovery of the creative and cultural sectors. The result is that the government has not allocated a cent from the re-launch fund. For the cultural and creative sectors, the Ministry of Culture will request nearly EUR 22 million from the state budget to restore the sector to its exit from the crisis. My question is: why did the government not find a way to support the cultural and creative sectors from the recovery fund and now it is going to the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U25	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. While we are talking now only about the recovery fund, the so-called RRF, the R &amp; D Facility, the support for the economy and entrepreneurship has in no way ruled out that the creative industries could and should also receive support from it. It was part of the desire to open up funding and opportunities to a wide range of areas, including culture, to support major and fundamental revolutions. The same applies to the Structural Funds, which are the remaining long-term financing opportunities of the European Union. I have also met and talked to cultural organisations, cultural representatives on this subject and explained the background. In any case, they are certainly also open to the creative industries.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U26	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question is similarly about this programme, which has already been approved by the government. If you look at this scheme, you can see a lot of right and good things that divide across Estonia. But there are also 380 million in Tallinn for the construction of a new hospital building. My question to you is in two parts. How is building a hospital building connected with the recovery of the whole crisis from coronavir? We've just heard that no money has been found for cultural people, but they'll find money to build a hospital. How, then, is it that everyone across Estonia gets a little scrambled, but Tallinn gets another big part?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U28	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for your question. The health campus known as Tallinn Hospital certainly improves both the availability and quality of health care services and the working conditions of our medical staff and the conditions for receiving patients' health care not only in Tallinn but actually throughout Northern Estonia. This would have a far-reaching effect from Tallinn. When you look at the average age of hospitals in Tallinn, you look at the condition of these buildings and think about the conditions under which patients receive help and doctors work, you will see that this investment is certainly important. In addition, creating such a campus will also help to improve efficiency. This means that this money, which is sometimes used to support buildings in very poor condition, could be used in the new modern hospital not to support the buildings, but already directly for people, which you often love and consider necessary. So this is one of the projects that would certainly bring a pretty important quality jump from its content. However, the biggest question that this project has to do with the fact that the launch of the whole recovery facility or the use of all the funding from the recovery facility is linked in time to, firstly, the extremely tight and, secondly, the very ambitious time frame on the part of the European Commission. This means that by the end of 2023 all contracts for projects included in the recovery plan must be fully signed. Until the end of 2023, there are no more two years left. Anyone who knows the complexity of the procurement of such very large projects will realise that it is very ambitious and will make the feasibility of this very large project... Well, let's say that from the European Commission's side, this has been the most criticism or question as to whether the city of Tallinn is convinced that such a timetable can be adhered to in such a way that all procurements have been carried out, all contracts have been concluded and it is actually possible to carry out construction very quickly. We can now refer to the Tallinn city's reply that yes, the city of Tallinn is capable of doing so. These negotiations are still ongoing with the Commission. This depends, above all, on whether the city of Tallinn is convincing enough and able to convince the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U29	Riina Sikkut, please! Honourable, Riina Sikkut, you are not to be heard. Please try to reconnect once again. Let's just go to the next question right now and try to get in touch with Riina Sikkut after that. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U30	Thank you. It is very easy to get lost here in these big money numbers and discuss what we would do in Tallinn or Ida-Viru County. But the most important thing is not this number of money. The most important are the basic national principles and they have been touched on a number of issues here. Unfortunately, I have not yet received or heard a proper answer. Firstly, the fundamental violation of the European Union's own Treaties. It is prohibited to finance yourself with a loan. It shall be prohibited for States to charge each other's own loans. These points are clearly violated by this decision. Secondly, what is the mandate of the Estonian people, the highest power. When we joined the European Union in 2003, most of the policies were promised to remain under our own control, and now we see how budgetary and fiscal sovereignty really goes. It's not just bullshitting about plastic taxing. However, my question, which also relates to this German issue: why can't we wait until the German Constitutional Court arrives, why are we working on ratifying it now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U31	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good questioner! With this draft decision, countries do not accept each other's loans. Each Member State which decides to use the re-launch facility shall do so by itself and shall bear the responsibility for the repayment of its loan. As far as tax sovereignty is concerned, in no way does this decision before us violate or alter the principles of tax sovereignty. As you understand it perfectly, no new tax will be introduced by this draft. That was probably why last summer, when this agreement was finally born in July after quite serious discussions, as part of your government, you were also prepared to support it at that moment. I understand that an important part of this was also the additional compensation for this own contribution to Member States whose GDP is below the average of the European Union, and Estonia is among them. As a result of this agreement, Estonia's payment decreased by EUR 4 million, which concerns this own contribution. And once again, Germany and every other Member State are arguing about their internal disputes themselves. Our decision is ours to make. That is why I say once again that there is no reason why we should delay our decision in any way. The implementation of the recovery plan will depend on the internal procedures carried out by all Member States. Estonia is one of those who can do this. I think it makes sense if we complete this internal procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U32	Riina Sikkut, let's try to get back in touch with you. It's still... Please, Riina!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U33	[[Remote connection]] Oh, hi! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U34	Hello, hello!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U35	[[Remote connection]] Minister, thank you very much. First of all, I'd like to commend a good explanation. Indeed, reading it answers many of the questions that have been put here this evening, sets out the perspective of the size of the European Union's budget compared to the national budgets, and it is generally less worrying. So I recommend it to my colleagues. But I am pleased to note that Estonia not only supports initiatives that are specifically economically useful, but that these initiatives actually help to achieve greater goals, such as a tax based on plastic waste. However, the explanatory memorandum refers to the introduction of a digital tax and a carbon tax initiative during the first half of the year. Are they on schedule?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U36	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Let's hope we're on schedule. As far as digital fees are concerned, the European Union is currently awaiting the outcome of negotiations at OECD level. There'll be hope by mid-June. The current forecast is that the OECD should then make the outcome of its work public and from this point of view the European Union could also move forward with its proposals or with its internal solution. If this should not succeed in the OECD, then, of course, there is a new situation. We are now considering and hoping that this solution will come from there and that it will be possible to move forward with the digital fee. Similarly, a cross-border carbon tax is currently waiting for the European Commission's proposal. Just in case, I would also stress that both examples require that the solution be approved by all Member States before or before they are implemented. At the moment, we do not know what is coming from the Commission, so it is too early to talk about approval. We look forward to these Commission proposals during the first half of the year.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U37	Let's move on at a nice pace. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U38	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, Actually, I didn't get an answer to my last question. The question was where Estonia's earlier promises are that Estonia will no longer accept pan-European taxes. That was the first question. However, the second question is that if we are honest, we will no longer control much of the monetary policy of our country, the cash flow, despite the independence of the budget arising from the Constitution. And the planned financial gap or the EURU rescue package is 750 billion, the total package is probably significantly larger, perhaps 1.3 billion, perhaps 1.3 trillion, yes, 2.4 trillion. And when it was before, the amount of the Estonian deposit was... [[We've lost contact.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U39	Dear Paul Puustusmaa, hello! I'm really sorry, but can we just rewind for 20 seconds, because your voice has completely disappeared in the meantime. Why don't you come back to your idea, which was 20 seconds ago, and repeat it again? Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U40	[[Remote connection]] Okay. Repeat. Thank you very much. I said that, while Estonia's contribution to the budget of the European Union was on average EUR 230 million per year, EUR 350 million per year will be planned in 2021 2027, and I realized that there would be 34 million additional, linked to this rescue package. But if this rescue package gets two or three times bigger, it could also be 100 million extra euros a year. My question is, how big should Estonia's financial commitment be per year [pay] to the budget of the European Union, so that you will consider whether Estonia's membership of the European Union under the existing conditions is reasonable or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U41	[[Remote connection]] Well, where do you get those numbers? This proposal for a re-launch plan is also numerically on everyone's desk right now. It's not about the orders of magnitude and the numbers you read here. I can't even tell you where the numbers are very difficult to comment on. We can still talk about what is a real proposal and what we really have to decide. Any sci-fi numbers that do not have any connection to a specific recovery plan may probably be discussed in another forum, but they do not relate to the proposal and draft before Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U42	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U43	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. If we now look at what legitimacy the European Commission is, it has no legitimacy but it shares money. Regrettably, the current government is ready to give up yet more pieces of Estonia's sovereignty to the European Commission for change. Now, here's the fundamental difference between us and you. We want Estonia to have a strong economy that generates so much additional revenue that Estonia is financially independent and maybe even help other countries. You want Estonia to be a small province of the European Union, and you are not the Minister of Finance, but the Head of the Finance Department. This is a fundamental difference and, therefore, we cannot support the whole package that we are talking about. I don't have a question, because you actually don't have any answers to give me.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U44	Minister, would you like to respond?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U45	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Good Member! Yes, this fundamental difference is that you have never hidden it, as you have now described, that editing Estonia alone is what you think is right. Objections to this, a counter-description of what happens if Estonia is left alone, gives us history and knowledge of history. We have had to go through this in our history when Europe was fragmented, unless such united action and united interests were seen or defended. This is the reason why I am really convinced that if history should repeat itself in this form and we get there again, that we are alone in isolation with Estonia, then this is something that we probably no one would want to go through again. The European Union is vital to us both in economic and security terms, and the functioning of the European Union, the functioning of a strong European Union is directly in Estonia's interests. That's definitely the difference between our visions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U46	Have you spoken, Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U47	Yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U48	Got it. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U49	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I would still like an answer to my question. You have given us extremely controversial views here. You have once said that the countries are responsible for their own debt, then again admitted that indeed, if not, others will have to pay for it. I want to know where the government intends to take this money to pay off foreign debts in a situation where you have shut down mines, oil shale chemical industry, power plants, etc., and caused a colossal social and economic crisis in Estonia. We are actually talking about billions if we are still talking about this huge debt, the debts of other countries. Or do you not give a damn on the principle of coming after this government or the Flood?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U50	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good questioner! We have not only a goal, but also a plan to start reducing Estonia's own loan burden again and not to use the maximum borrowing rates that are currently in force, for example, the budgetary strategy of the state and the state budget available for this year. So it is our desire to put public finances in order and discipline in the planning and making of spending there again. Once again, when we talk about the responsibility of the Member States for the same proposal that we have now before us, each Member State itself, as has been repeatedly said, is responsible to the European Union budget for fulfilling its own obligations. This principle will not change with this draft before you either.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U51	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U52	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Madam Secretary! I would remind you that countries generally do not pay back loans, more specifically, they pay, but they take new loans from the market to repay. In a situation where the European Central Bank has a large asset purchase programme, in a situation where interest rates are non-existent, it is clear that individual lending by Member States is the most flexible way to boost their own economies in the way they choose. Especially in Estonia, of course, whose loan position is excellent. So I will continue to encourage borrowing, it is only beneficial for our economy, it will create more jobs and it will make the economy grow. However, from the perspective of this situation, this re-launch plan does not appear to be an idea, either economically or financially, anywhere. So there's gotta be some other idea. Why are we dealing economically and financially with an unreasonable bureaucratic instrument when we have a considerably better and more flexible instrument in this European scheme?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U53	[[Remote connection]] I do not think that there is even a need to contrast the instruments of the European re-launch plan. There are different opportunities that this re-launch plan offers to make and support important reforms in order not to increase the debt burden in the crisis or simply to increase spending, but precisely to make investments with the aim of making major changes that will later help the economy to become more competitive. This is, in any case, an important part of this restarting plan and, in any case, a reasonable part to use. Digitalisation and the possibility for digital reform in the European Union as a whole to be placed on a completely new footing is part of this recovery fund. For example, the McKenzie analysis carried out in the second half of last year says that this digital leap, the digitalisation reform in the European Union, is moving seven years earlier because the current crisis has become very acutely aware across Europe of the importance of using digital opportunities both in terms of the economy and the functioning of countries and in terms of preparedness for future crises. This digital leap and the implementation of digital reform in the European Union will also be given the same re-launch plan, a very important injection of money from the Re-launch Facility. I very much hope and am keeping my fingers crossed that not only Estonia but also other Member States of the European Union are using it precisely so that we are better prepared for the next crisis, so that we can get a pretty good start to the economy by using digitalisation opportunities.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U54	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I come back to the RRF subsidy distribution, which was approved by the government on 4 March. a. My question is how the wider involvement of the public, stakeholders, local authorities, whether and how the Riigikogu was involved and under what national legislation, under which law real grants will be distributed in the near future, under which conditions and who will confirm these conditions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U56	Thank you. Yeah, I'm a little different now. The preparation of both the R &amp; D Facility and, for example, the REACT-EU and, in fact, the Fair Transition Fund and the long-term financing of the European Union, have been going on for a long time, much longer than two and a half months, when I have been a member of the government. Even in the course of the preparation of asking for input from the various parties has, in particular, been through the respective ministries... [[We've lost contact.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U57	Minister, we can't hear you now. This means that you should definitely reply again to Mr Odines, because otherwise we will miss out on important and interesting information. Let's try to reconnect with you. Minister, are you there now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U58	I'm here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U59	Excellent! We hear you, and we see you, the picture comes through beautifully, the sound is nice to hear. Mr Odines's question must have been completely understandable and audible to you, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U60	Yeah, I already got half the question answered, but I guess it didn't reach the questioner, I guess.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U61	It seems to me that half of it came, but half of it didn't make it. So if you take it from that side, I would like to ask you to continue to answer Mr Odines' question. Please, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U62	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Let's try it. In short, May is probably the month in which we can present a revised plan as a result of the feedback and consultation received from the European Commission. Of course, your question already concerned the detailed rules on the money-sharing measure and the detailed arrangements for allocating money after we have been able to negotiate so far that we can, in essence, lock down this plan and submit it to the Commission. After that, quite detailed discussions will continue in every area, say, with relevant organisations, some places with entrepreneurs, also with local governments. Still to ensure that the implementation of this scheme itself is such that it can be implemented as quickly and as smoothly as possible in real life, and that the conditions take into account real needs and that this money really reaches where it brings about a major change. The regulation of the measure itself will eventually be confirmed by the government, as it has otherwise been for EU money.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U63	Thank you. We got over the problem, and we're moving on. Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U64	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The Human Development Report and the Monitoring Report of the Regional Development Strategy by the Ministry of Finance themselves both say that regional disparities in Estonia are increasing and one of its most important reasons is the misallocation of euro money, i.e. national support measures. Finally, money will accumulate more in Harjumaa and Tallinn, because there are simply more capable applicants, and this is how inequality is amplified. In accordance with this logic, all new euro plans should have specially designed money that goes outside the golden circle of Tallinn. But when you look at it, we see the opposite: all the money is divided again according to the old scheme across Estonia and Tallinn receives 380 million. Whoa! Tell me why. Why isn't there a regional dimension inside?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U65	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I don't know what this health campus in Tallinn deserves your displeasure. It is indeed a project that would significantly improve the quality of health care for a very large part of the people of Northern Estonia. But I very much agree that the regional principle is very important when it comes to deciding or distributing support measures. And it is not the case that if the name of a particular region is not included in the various support measures, it automatically means that most of this money or all of the programme's money will reach the Tallinn region or Northern Estonia as support. One way to ensure this is, for example, that these support packages or measures are essentially divided into several parts at the time of the request. This has been done in the past, so it is possible to present projects in Tallinn and the Northern Estonian region and in other regions. This is, among other things, in order to avoid the situation you described, where simply the most skilled project writers come from one area and therefore the rest cannot get hit. Of course, I would like it to be the idea that really matters when it comes to channelling EU money, not just the ability of filigrams to make paperwork. The other side is that there are also support measures for European Union money, where the coefficients are indeed higher for regions outside Tallinn or where the level of ownership is differentiated in such a way that it is certainly the case for other regions. So it is a cross-cutting principle that European Union grants must provide support to different regions of Estonia and competitiveness must improve. This generally goes through the whole scheme. It is not the case that this division is regionally very uneven, on the contrary, it has been taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U66	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U67	What an interesting story we have here! You have always confirmed that no, our tax sovereignty is not in any danger, but at the same time you will be talking about how you look forward to the OECD and the European Union deciding for us a digital tax, which is in fact a tax. And some CO taxes coming from somewhere else that's the loss of tax sovereignty when somewhere else decides for us what taxes we have or what tax rates we have. And if you don't understand it, it's bad. And if you understand that and you're talking crap to Parliament, it's even worse. But I would still come back to a question you do not want to answer in any way. The European Union takes debt, the Commission takes debt of 750 billion. Whose is the debt? It is a debt of the Member States, it is paid back by the Member States, whatever the trick, with the extra taxes, with the extra resources, whatever it takes. Never before have we had to pay for anyone else if someone fails to pay, so we have never had to worry about it. But now we have to. What if, for example, Italy no longer pays?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U68	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I do not know whether it seems to you that if the European Union decides something, it is not us. I think it's just like us. As we know very well, both own resources and tax matters are unanimous in the European Union. This cannot be decided without our approval or approval of these proposals. So I will not place Estonia outside the OECD or the European Union. That is why I am treating us, Estonia, as an important part of these decision-makers. And once again, I do not know how many times it is said: each Member State is responsible for its own responsibilities, for its own budgetary responsibilities. The obligations must be borne by each Member State itself. The same restart scheme itself is divided into two parts. There is 390 million, which is essentially grants or, let's say, a cost side, and 350 million, which is an additional opportunity for Member States wishing to take advantage of the opportunity to borrow the same 350 million. If a Member State decides to take this loan in this form, to make use of this option, it shall pay back the loan it has taken, and no one else shall share this burden. The remaining part, which concerns additional support for expenditure policies, is a loan that is repaid through contributions to the budget of the European Union. There are, as stated in the draft before you, specific limits, specific limits, which concern each part of the Member State. As has been said, if, according to the rules currently in force, a situation should arise where, temporarily or for some reason at a particular moment... [[We've lost contact.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U69	Dear Minister,
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U70	... a Member State with its obligations...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U71	Minister, the connection was cut 25 seconds ago. If you could repeat it again, I'd appreciate it. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U72	I'm probably gonna have to start keeping track of the watch just in case, so I can identify it exactly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U73	Well, get out of there, which was the most exciting place. That's where it stopped.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U74	The excitement is for different people, I understand, very different. However, in short, if there is a situation where one Member State does not meet its obligations to the budget of the European Union at some point in time, it is theoretically right to ask the other Member States, without exceeding the ceiling laid down, to comply with their obligations which have not been fulfilled. As has been said many times, this is not an amendment, but this option is still valid as it is today, and there has not been a situation in which Member States have not fulfilled their commitments to the European Union budget. This is not a change in that sense. It is a little surprising that it is somehow linked to this bill in this form. That's the way it's been before. But, as I said, there has never been a situation like this before. I will come back for a moment to Mr Helme's previous question concerning the situation in Germany. I take this opportunity to point out that the German Parliament has ratified the same decision. So if our Riigikogu considers it important to take into account the position of the German Parliament, then the German Parliament has ratified it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U75	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U76	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister for his patient repeated explanation. It's late. I'm gonna ask you a thoughtful question. We know that about half of Estonia's inhabitants live in Tallinn and the golden circle. The GDP there is above the European Union average, has reached about 110%, while the rest of Estonia and half of the Estonian population are at least two thirds of the European Union average. If we look at all the resources of the re-launch plan and also at the budget for the next period, what do you think would be the fair distribution of these funds, which could be Estonia's goal, which is what we are trying to achieve with this extraordinarily large amount of money, and what are these principles from which this sharing could be organised?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U77	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. This goal, summarised very briefly, is that people's lives will be improved and that the lives of our people, the people of Estonia, will still get closer and closer to the lives of the people of Europe's wealthier countries. But, of course, this use of European Union money is a completely unique opportunity to use the amount of money now to make changes that, on the one hand, are inevitable, but, on the other hand, would also help us, in economic terms, to a completely new level of competitiveness in national terms as a whole. In any case, this concerns the greening process, the possibility of introducing new technologies in order to improve the quality of life, so that new technologies can also create new jobs and generate greater added value in the economy. In any case, this also concerns digitalisation, where we have had the habit of thinking that we are ahead of a very large number of European Union countries with our digital solutions. Unfortunately, if we look at the use of digital solutions in business, we are not among the first in the European Union. The new funding period of the European Union, as well as the re-launch plan, will enable businesses to reach a whole new level of digital solutions. So the big changes that our own budget would take us a very long time, decades, can now be made much, much faster, with the support of the European Union, and can help our people's lives to prosper much better.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U78	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U79	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Well, I'm glad you believe what you're saying. We're always losing communication, but you're talking about our great digital solutions. That's great! It's the same belief that we're among the richest five countries in 15 years. In response to my previous reply, I was embarrassed to receive banal demagoguery. If the Minister of the Republic of Estonia does not understand that sovereignty does not automatically mean being alone, he does not qualify as a minister. Please think about it! And now I am saying something: this money, which will be distributed five years after Ida-Virumaa, is basically preparing a chance to repeat the Crimean scenario. Have you thought about that? Will you assume this responsibility with this government if something like this really happens there? This money is ridiculously small.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U80	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. This is why digital solutions need to be invested so that such interruptions do not happen. We intend to do everything in order to ensure that the scenarios you are predicting never happen in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U81	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U82	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, I think this bill is good for Estonia. There is no doubt, it must be supported. There is no doubt, either, as the opposition has, that this is a matter of giving up sovereignty. But I have read the basic documents that accompany this decision, also the same Council decision on the system of own resources of the European Union, which contains very many long complex formulas, coefficients, etc. My question is: what is our opportunity to audit all this in order to be treated equally? It is not far from the times when Greece bluffed all its numbers and, in fact, at the expense of others, drew more money from the European Union. Is there any way for our representative from the Court of Auditors, Juhan Parts, to intervene? What is our chance to audit all the coefficients and formulas we put in here? Are you sure we're in charge and we won't be disappointed afterwards?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U83	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Well, that depends on our own ability at last. Surely the Juhan Parts you mentioned is a very capable representative who can keep a close eye on all this cleverness. But not only, I think that Parliament and certainly the government side and our representatives will do it anyway. So, for the time being, I do not think there is any reason to mistrust the data provided or provided. But, of course, we must be careful and, of course, if necessary, as you have mentioned, we must audit the data in order to be correct and correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U84	Thank you, Minister. No more questions for you. Thank you! I now give the floor on this point to Mr Savisaar, President of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U85	[[Remote connection]] Looks like there's an audible now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U86	There's a hearing, there's a picture, it's working right now. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U87	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear Riigikogu! The Committee on Finance discussed a draft of 353 on 23 March. The draft decision of the Riigikogu entitled "Accepting the financing of the European Union's re-launch plan and the Council of the European Union's decision on the system of own resources" was presented at the meeting by the Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus and Pille Pruunsild, Head of the Ministry's European Union Policy Office, and Adviser Erik Marksoo. Following a presentation by the Minister, he and the officials also answered questions. However, since this introduction in this Chamber moment ago was even more comprehensive than in the Commission and all the questions raised in the Commission also sounded in this large Chamber, I will not go over this again. There was a consensus in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. It was proposed that the first reading of this draft be completed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 21 April. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U88	Good waitress, thank you very much for a very thorough review. Looks like there's no questions. Thank you. There are no questions. Is item No 8 to be negotiated on draft 353? It's what you want. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Martin Helme, representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please! More time, that'll be eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U89	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, We have before us a seemingly simple and safe draft decision of the Riigikogu, which also refers nicely to one of the sections of the Constitution. This section states in this way § 65 (10) that the Riigikogu, acting on a proposal from the Government of the Republic, decides to grant state loans and other property obligations to the state. We were trying to give the impression here that the European Union's recovery fund is something that brings us money. Actually, it's exactly the opposite. This is a significantly larger, multi-fold commitment compared to, for example, the European stabilisation mechanism, the ESM. We are participating in a collective debt of EUR 750 billion, which will be shared by 27 European countries. This cannot be supported for four reasons. Firstly, it is a clear and screaming contradiction to the European Union's Treaties. Article 310 of the Treaty on European Union states that the European Union's expenditure and revenue must be in balance. The EUR 750 billion loan does not fit into this claim. Article 311 states that the budget is financed entirely from own resources. The loan is not an own resource. Article 125 states that a Member State is not responsible and does not assume the responsibilities of the governments of other Member States. As we have learned very clearly in this debate, that is exactly what all Member States are now going to do for each other. Secondly, the Estonian Constitution does not allow budgetary and tax policies to be handed over. However, there is no secret in the European Union that the recovery fund is a groundbreaking step towards the creation of the EU's own budget and taxes at the expense of the fiscal and budgetary sovereignty of the Member States. This is inconsistency contrary to the fundamental principles of democracy. If the Estonian electorate can no longer direct tax and budgetary policy in the elections, because a large part of our tax policy and budget resources is actually assigned to the European Union commission set up in Germany or France as a result of the elections, then there is little point in the elections in Estonia. This means that our elections will become meaningless, the opportunity for our people to direct their lives and their own money will become either very small or almost nonexistent. Thirdly, there is no fundamental change in the structure of the European Union through the creation of a recovery fund, i.e. a major leap towards the United States of Europe, in line with the mandate of the highest authority, the people, in the referendum in 2003. This mandate allowed us to belong to the Union of the Member States, and at that time we were assured that taxes, budgets, immigration, social or health policy would, in any case, remain our own. But there isn't, and now there is less. Fourthly, in the case of the recovery fund, it can be seen that agreements concluded less than a year ago are no longer being respected. In the summer of 2020, Member States agreed to a long tooth recovery fund, provided that no new taxes would be introduced by the EU for the refunder. That promise is already being violated today. It was agreed that the Fund would not be linked to national policies, i.e. not used as a political malana. This has already been violated in the case of Poland and Hungary. It was agreed that the solution would be one-off and temporary and would not change the functioning of the European Union. This agreement, too, has been violated because it is already spoken of by the Minister in Brussels, although it was clearly denied by the need to amend the Treaties with a view to making this whole thing permanent, also legal. The EU talks endlessly about the rule of law and the rule of law club. In fact, agreements are not respected and their own treaties are twisted or dullly ignored if this is considered necessary for the sake of the European project, namely centralising power. This whole thing, this whole recovery fund, it's all about fraud, lies and breach of contracts, the march that we are being offered towards the undemocratic United States of Europe. In order to preserve Estonia's sovereignty and democracy, we must categorically say no to this plan. Our group proposes to reject the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U90	Thank you. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be represented by the Social Democratic Party Group. Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U91	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U92	Three minutes in total or eight minutes in total?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U93	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U94	Got it. Then three more minutes. Please, eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U95	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Let it be said first that the Social Democrats support this draft. But when we talk about the European Union's resources, their use and their sharing within Estonia, we need to talk about one important thing that has so far been overlooked. This is because the European Union's resources have created successive and successive regional inequalities within Estonia. This is said by the last Human Development Report 2019/2020, as stated by the Regional Policy Monitoring Report prepared by the Ministry of Finance in 2018 and quite a few other reports. And how does that happen? I'm afraid it's very simple. Where there are national calls for proposals, companies, municipalities or non-governmental organisations must compete on the same terms and conditions for this euro money. It is often the case that a better project is written by Harjumaa or Tallinn company rather than by the company that operates in Valga or Põlva County. This is because there are more resources in Tallinn, they can scrape up more resources and so too much money is actually concentrated in Harjumaa. This has created inequality in Estonia. If I remember correctly, Harjumaa probably accounts for nearly 64% of Estonia's GDP. And we amplify it. Let us look at the European Union's funding for regional development in general. I am now talking not only in the context of this recovery facility, but in the context of the whole of the European Union's instruments. The period ended was 255 million euros. What do studies, which the state itself has ordered, say again? They say 255 million can't fight it if the other billions go wrong. If we also look at the financing plan for cohesion policy funds for the new period, there will be 25 million fewer for regional policy in a situation where regional disparities are increasing, and this will also be caused by euro payments. If we look at the financing plan for the recovery fund, we will see that yes, the rest of Estonia has to compete, the measures will come, everyone will be able to ask, and maybe it will go exactly as it has so far. But one exception is, this exception is the city of Tallinn, which receives 380 million euros for the construction of the hospital. There, I understand, the government has never had any disagreement with each other. Not that the city of Tallinn doesn't have to get the money, for God's sake. The question is that if we really want fair governance in regional terms, so that there is real life in every region of Estonia, if 380 million come to Tallinn, then at least in the same order of magnitude, we should see euro money moving out of this golden circle, so that there is no unequal competition, which actually proves that the market cannot regulate itself fairly and is always unfair and always unfair to those who are weaker. Unfortunately, these people live in Estonia's rural areas. If we think about the main reason for leaving rural areas, the reason for no 1 is jobs, whether there are too low-wage jobs or if there are no skills jobs in the region. This is followed by problems of residence and then, only then will there be all kinds of services. The first reason for moving away from rural areas is mainly due to migration to Tallinn. Migration is estimated by Statistics Estonia to be 2,000 people a year, by 2035 it will be over 30,000 people, very much. Let us think of another problem where the solution is actually hidden. What exactly do the same studies that we have wanted to do here in the Riigikogu say, or has the government wanted them to be done? They say that there are good ideas on how to do things on the ground, but look, most of the euro support measures have been done in such a way that the needs on the ground are not taken into account. On-the-spot specificities cannot be taken into account by national support measures. What is needed in Harjumaa may not be suitable for Võrumaa and vice versa. That's a very big problem. The solution that is once again recommended, and what I think we should do in order to distribute these subsidies fairly, is that we say that this amount of euro money will go to the Estonian regions to decide on the spot. The existing strategies are empty there today. Yes, indeed, the law says that make strategies, but these development strategies cannot be implemented, because our tax system, our country's functioning system, simply does not make it possible to do so on the ground. Municipalities don't have the money to do this for. What we should do, what we would like to see in these funding plans, in all the funding schemes, is that we are taking at least the same amount as we are putting in Tallinn for the hospital, and we are saying that you can say on the ground what measures are coming, what your needs are, in order to create jobs, in order to prevent people from migrating to the capital, perhaps outside Estonia, in order to actually develop life in Estonia fairly. So far, most things, unfortunately, have to admit, regional politically may have been nice words, but the impact, if we look at the studies, has been very little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U96	Thank you. I would like to ask Mr Siim Kallas, representative of the Reform Party Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U97	Honorable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, who are still standing here at a good time of night! I'll ask for three more minutes, just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U98	Yes, of course, please, eight minutes in total. We have a lot of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U99	Yeah, we got a lot of time. Maybe I don't need that much, but just in case. Of course, first of all, I propose to support this bill. It would be rather foolish not to support a decision that provides Estonia with EUR 1.4..1.5 billion in aid on the account of richer countries, which we will only have to pay by 2058. I would like to argue with the former Minister of Finance, Martin Helme, who has already left this hall. The commitments we get are still less than the money we get. In principle, however, the question is whether we need this money, whether Europe needs this recovery facility, and as the honourable Socialist representative said, much more is needed for all kinds of needs and is not enough. It is also the same attitude in Europe that there are those on one side who want more spending for all kinds of needs, and on the other side they are the payers. This decision, which we are debating, has already been approved by 19 Member States, including France, according to my information. But it is indeed a very serious matter that Germany and the Netherlands have not yet completed the discharge procedure for the large payers. The Honourable Minister spoke about the context in which this shipment of money falls into, its impact on the Estonian economy, and how he will help us overcome this cursed virus. But I would like to share ideas here with my colleagues on financing the needs of the European Union and putting together its budget in general, in order to open up a little background. Budgetary framework 2021 to 2027. By 2020, Member States were essentially approved in the summer of 2020. This was a very good achievement, as in 2013 the seven-year budgetary framework for the years 2014 to 2020 had to be approved and managed only at the end of 2013, which led to major problems in implementing legislation. The then President of the Commission, José Barroso, predicted that the next budgetary framework would not be adopted in the same way. However, thanks to the Korona and the UK's departure, this was done well. What's the problem? The problem is the arrangements for putting this budget together. While colleagues here argued that we would now have a common European budget, the common European budget was already created by the predecessor of the European Union in the European Coal and Steel Community in 1950. It's always been there, and it's always been there, but putting him together has changed a lot. At first it was just expenses, they were distributed and paid for. But then it has changed all the time, and now the revenue from the budget is made up of a so-called national income contribution and own resources, including this loan. The budget has changed a great deal, with a national income-based share of around 70% and an own resources share of around 30% without a loan. Although this so-called national income contribution is calculated on the basis of a complex formula, it is a rather political contribution. Own revenues are automatically generated. The more time goes on, the more difficult it will be for Germany and the Netherlands to receive support for this political contribution in their Parliament. As long as Estonia is a recipient of funds, this problem does not concern us much. We'll get more than we pay in. But times change. Politically, it is better for the budget revenue to account for the majority of its own resources, customs revenue, VAT allocations and other revenue that are automatically collected. It used to be. The National Income component was only created in 1978 and only 10% of the EU budget in 1988. In this context, this plastic packaging-based own funds component, I agree that it is a great name, a good idea, which actually allows this political contribution to be reduced, not to mention the environmental effect. 11 million euros in Estonia is not much, but still. But the virus crisis delayed the need to open our eyes. The money ship coming from Europe is big and big. In the explanatory memorandum to the national budget for 2021, we only cover 71% of our needs with our tax revenues. With the help of a European money ship, our gross domestic product is actually, partly seemingly rising. In part, thanks to the European Union's support, we can consider ourselves a welfare state, but that also makes us comfortable. The future may not be free of worry. The messages of the Coronary Crisis are that healthcare really needs extra money, as does higher education, science, probably national defence. The average pension is still very far from ideal. The virus crisis will end once and then there will be many challenges to face again. Despite a good life, we also need sustainable growth without European aid. There was a lot of talk about payments and taxes. However, I would like to say that we joined the European Union in 2003 and then approved that the VAT rules are European, that we have nothing to do with customs duties, that excise duties are European. What we fought against then and continue to fight is direct taxes. This is indeed the instrument that must remain in the hands of the countries. However, I would say to the wider public that I have always said that the roads are not coming towards Europe as a federal state. Ultimately, all things will still be decided by the Member States, as they have decided on this recovery facility. So once again, I call for this bill to be supported, and then we can participate in this recovery facility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U100	Thank you. I see what's happened is there's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed to close the first reading of the draft 353. However, we have also received a second proposal, and the second proposal is as follows: the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia proposes to reject the Riigikogu's decision, initiated by the Government of the Republic, on the "approval of the financing of the European Union's re-launch plan and the Council of the European Union's decision on the system of own resources" at first reading. We will begin to prepare this vote, of course, as the tradition has become, after a procedural question from Kalle Grünthal. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U101	Thank you. Prime Minister, don't ring the bell for too long, or you'll wake one up.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U102	I'm sure we'll send our regards from here to Kaja Kallas. [[It's a saalikutsung.]] Coming along with the proposal made by the member of the Riigikogu, I ask: can we go to the vote? [[A voice from the hall.]] Got it. Then we'll keep calling for another minute. [[It's a saalikutsung.]] Dear members of the Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia to reject 353 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U103	Okay. Looks like everybody got the procedure done. With the result of 17 and 55 against, the proposal was not supported. Now we have to come back anyway, there is nothing to do, to the proposal of the lead committee. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 21 April at 5.15 p.m. Draft 353 first reading is complete. The eighth item is closed. Dear members of the Riigikogu, I'll meet you in a few hours, 10 o'clock, when the next session begins. No further speeches, the session is closed. Have a safe journey home!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U104	Good fellows! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the government! Let's start the April 7th briefing. First, we'll run a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U105	38 members of the Riigikogu registered as present and 63 are absent. The following members of the government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, Andres Sutt, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology, Tanel Kiik, Minister of Health and Labour. Good fellows! As 16 questions have been pre-registered, I propose that we also take an additional question from this Chamber for each question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U106	Let's get to the questions. The first is a procedural question. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U107	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. I have a procedural question concerning the presentation by the Prime Minister of a political statement on the disorder of vaccination, on which the Group of the Social Democratic Party has requested. We discussed this briefly on Monday, then there was no knowledge of it, because the Prime Minister had many other tasks on Tuesday, as I understand. But yesterday we received a message from the media that the Prime Minister had nothing to say and that is why he does not want to come before us. He himself, of course, can also comment on this during Question Time. The Question Hour, where there are only a few minutes' lines, of course, is not a substitute for a substantive debate on such a critical issue in a social sense. What is your knowledge of today's moment, when would the Prime Minister be willing to come before Parliament to have a thorough debate on this important issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U108	Thank you. As the Prime Minister has said, he will certainly be in Question Time today, and he will also be here. I had a conversation with the Prime Minister today, and I know that his wish is to make a political presentation this week, tomorrow. So when the statement comes to us, of course, I am ready to add to the agenda for tomorrow. Well, I don't see any more procedural questions. I propose to go to the agenda, to the order in which questions are asked. The first question is that of Helle-Moonika Helmel, a member of the Riigikogu, the Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, answers this and the subject is the responsibility of the Prime Minister. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U109	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! It's very nice to see you here for a long time, and I appreciate that you've come here physically. It is a pity that, for the second time, you did not wish to come before this Parliament to share with us the plans you intend to take to bring the country out of this chaos once and for all. While you were in opposition, you had a big, better plan all along, but somehow you're keeping it to yourself so far. You will also avoid coming to Parliament. As we've heard, on Thursday you have a plan for this, so we'll see. But now for the Prime Minister's responsibility. You have already been able to say, before vaccination, that the vaccination is solely the responsibility of Minister Kiik, and you have confirmed this after. But if, as your head of government, there is no co-responsibility for your minister's field of work, I conclude that this logic applies to all of your government's ministers, then the fundamental question arises: what is Prime Minister Kaja Kallas responsible for in the first place? If he's evading responsibility, why do you even need him? We have been in crisis as a country for a long time, and you have hardly been seen at all. The previous government immediately imposed an emergency situation at the beginning of the health crisis and appointed the Prime Minister as Head of the Crisis Staff. I feel more and more that you avoided declaring an emergency situation because you realized that you are not capable of managing this crisis. Let the Scientific Council do this, about whom you scornfully said 'politvirologists' when you were in opposition, and the Health Board. Now you're building a police state in the shadow of a pandemic. By the way, it's only the weak and the terrible leaders of failure. But if so, I still have a question: why do we have a prime minister who can't handle anything and who's not responsible for anything?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U110	I now ask Prime Minister Kaja Kallas to respond. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U111	Thank you. First of all, I have a good opportunity to congratulate the new Head of the Riigikogu. Indeed, I have not been here in the Riigikogu since this election. Much effort to manage Riigikogu sittings! Secondly, I want to say that I am really very happy to hear you miss me. I have to admit, you seem to miss me more than I miss you. But I really don't work in the Riigikogu anymore, so you can't see me here every day. Of course, I will come to this Parliament as foreseen in the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu. The Home and Rules of Procedure Act provides for a format for enquiries, in which the members of the Riigikogu can ask their questions which they want to ask the Prime Minister and invite the Prime Minister here in advance. Then I have to answer these questions, you can ask further questions and you can finally comment yourself. I had to check how many enquiries the members of the Riigikogu have made to the Prime Minister. One! It was made by the Fatherland Party. In fact, you have not asked these questions yourself, as the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure provide for how a Prime Minister can be invited to appear before the Riigikogu. Of course, I go to the Riigikogu exactly as the obligations require. Now to your question. We have different areas of government for which different people are responsible and are ministers, each of whom is responsible for their duties. There are very many lines of work in the crisis, for which different ministers are responsible. But in the end, of course, the Prime Minister is responsible for all the government's work. I'm not running away from this responsibility, I'm taking responsibility, and I'm doing this job. So I don't understand your accusations. Anyway, I'm responsible for all the government's work.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U112	And now one registered locally... I'm sorry! Specific question, Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U113	Thank you. I would still go on with this matter of responsibility. You see, you've failed most of the vaccination. The plan was to vaccinate 24000 people, but the actual vaccination was 17,000. Now accused of hurried Medicum and Confido doctors. This is so embarrassing. But maybe you don't know anything about it, but you've been missing all this time. Oh, right, we don't have a prime minister this weekend because you're with your family so you don't burn it out. At that time, doctors, nurses and other ministers will burn, but, Prime Minister, he's resting. You've been gone a long time, but do you realize that you've completely failed by now? You lost it, you don't have enough vaccines, and you got stuck with a few of them. Family doctors are dissatisfied, restrictions kill the economy, loan burden jumps to the ceiling, people are on the verge of rebellion, you're setting up some kind of police state here, you've invested a million in propaganda, but it's only expressed by threats and by showing people injecting in prime time's news, which, frankly, is quite unpleasant. Instead of leaving, there is now some colourful children's literature entitled "The White Book." I'm sorry, but this is a joke! That's my question. Perhaps you could change your attitude and finally start working, as one Head of State has to work, especially in the crisis or even in the war, you have used such rhetoric yourself. Stop posting photos from your desktop and photoshop on Facebook, get yourself together once and take responsibility if you are capable of doing so! Now I ask you, as you used to ask the ministers of the previous government and the Prime Minister: are you ashamed?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U114	Please, Kaja Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U115	Thank you. When I hear your description, I wouldn't want to live in a world full of your evil. Yes, so much evil. But I will respond to those reproaches that you said there. First of all, of course, the Prime Minister, I'm 24 hours seven days a week, that's exactly what it is. Indeed, in the meantime, I got the COVID myself. It was a very serious illness, and I was really sick, so I did as it was suggested that I didn't work because this disease goes up and down very much. Of course, we do vaccination every day. And if you say it was a failure or that vaccination is a failure, I don't think so. Why? Because we have already been able to vaccinate nearly 300000 people, i.e. 21% of the Estonian population. If we take the number that was in your government, we'll be vaccinated at 23,000. Perhaps the rest have all been vaccinated while our government has been in office. As for the big vaccination last weekend, I am grateful to the private sector for helping us. And not only to Confido or Medicum, who organizes these major vaccinations, but also to Sixfold, for example, who came to help and made a database that should have been done last summer. What did you do, I don't know. But then this database should have been made to know how to distribute vaccines to family doctors, according to the risk groups, and how this vaccine could quickly reach the family doctors and how family doctors could also monitor where the vaccine is. Last week, we had the goal of vaccinating over 40,000 people, and that's what we did. Every week we've vaccinated more people than before, except those weeks when we had fewer vaccines. Indeed, we now have a vaccine deficit, i.e. we do not have enough vaccine and therefore we cannot offer it to all Estonian residents. One big lesson on the weekend, or not even a lesson, but a positive side, was that large-scale vaccination is working with private support, when we have enough vaccines so that we can give it to everyone, not just the risk groups. In the meantime, our plan is that we primarily inject at risk groups, mostly inject older people, to get them out of risk. Why? To reduce the burden on the medical system and make sure our hospital network survives.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U116	Now, one more question. Kert Kingo, please! [[Silence.]] Dear Kert Kingo, unfortunately you are not heard in the hall. Can we try to get back in touch with Kert Kingo for a second? Kert Kingo, please! I hope you can hear me, but you're still not here to be heard. Is it conceivable that you're gonna shut down Chrome for a second and then open up again? This has been helpful in previous times. Let's try reconnecting with Kert Kingo. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U117	Can you hear me now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U118	I can hear you now, and I can see you in the picture. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U119	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! We have already experienced many times that you do not want to come to Parliament to give an overview of the epidemic in the country. You will not address your people directly through the TV screen to show your support during this difficult time and to express understanding and caringness. You are ignoring Parliament and your people. And the fact that you're posting on social media doesn't excuse you in any way. It is not appropriate for the Prime Minister to communicate with the public solely through social media. As a Member, I remember that one of your favourite expressions was the word 'political responsibility'. You used it for almost every minister in the previous government and called for political responsibility. Given that you have not yet understood the responsibilities and tasks of the Prime Minister, you have not managed to manage either the state or the crisis, and you have finally received the line you want in your CV, will you show by your actions that you yourself know what political responsibility is, and you have so much responsibility that you take political responsibility and resign?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U120	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U121	Thank you for that question. First of all, I'm communicating with the Riigikogu. Yesterday I was on the National Defence Committee, today I'm here, this morning I was on the parental board. That's right. If you would like to ask me questions and send me to this large hall, this is the Riigikogu's home and working format, which are enquiries. You have not made any inquiries to me, have been submitted by the Group of the Fatherland, and I will answer this on the next Monday. But such a format is provided, like this, it can also plan the PM's work programme. Now that's your question, will I resign? I would point out that even this ordinary hundred days of criticism that are given to governments have not yet passed. You have, of course, started very vigorously and for this a great deal of recognition, but I see no reason why I should resign, precisely because this crisis needs to be resolved now. We are working on getting more and more people vaccinated every day, we are working on getting more vaccines to Estonia, we are working on getting the medical system out of the way, and we are working on keeping society as open as possible. All of this is what we do, and it's our job.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U122	Thank you! I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U123	Let us move on to the second question. It has been submitted by a member of the Riigikogu, Helir-Valdor Seeder, which is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, and the subject is vaccination and testing. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U124	Thank you. Prime Minister! We really miss you here in the Riigikogu, and I hope you still miss us. At least I am, sure. For some reason, journalist Toomas Sildam claims I don't want to communicate with you. I don't know where that information came from. You're not the source, are you? I have such an introductory question. But now to the substantive question. From your previous answers here in Question Time and elsewhere, you have the impression that you are a victim of the previous government and a hostage to the bad decisions of the previous government and an independent agent as Prime Minister you cannot impose. That's the case with quick tests. We know that Minister Tanel Kiik has been very sceptical about rapid testing and the introduction of rapid tests, although very many countries have successfully implemented them in order to obtain preventive information and have been very helpful in detecting the spread of infection. It has also been possible to let people participate in events. We know that the Ministry of Education now has a plan to introduce testing in relation to the forthcoming exams, graduations and entrances, and I think that is correct. However, in the additional budget, money for rapid testing is very scarce and cannot therefore be widely used. My question is, why is that? Is this also because Minister Tanel Kiik, who was very sceptical about the rapid tests in the previous government, continues to do so and is still establishing the agenda of the previous government?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U125	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U126	Thank you. According to the Health Board, fast tests are allowed, and they're also on sale. I know a lot of companies use them too. I know a company that ran fast tests. No one had any symptoms of the disease, but 30 people were exposed to the company, and this test showed a positive result. I think it is positive that companies are introducing such tests. Yeah, they're not as accurate as the PCR tests, but they're still giving some preliminary identification. The Minister of Education and Research, in cooperation with the Health Board, has indeed sought solutions to verify that there is no spread of the virus in the exams. At first it was planned to use rapid tests, but since they still involve taking a deep sample from the nose, it was rather feared in the case of children or young people, and therefore it was resolved that spit tests would be carried out. But if your question is whether we are going to replace the rapid tests with PCR tests, then I say that we do not have a plan like this at the moment. The question of whether to make more extensive use of rapid tests to detect the virus. However, we have currently used PCR tests that are more accurate than rapid tests, but this does not mean that the use of rapid tests is in any way prohibited or that they are not already used in large numbers. And that's what companies do.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U127	Please, a more specific question, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U128	Thank you. No, we really have not meant replacing the PCR tests, but still more extensive introduction of rapid tests. The answer that you do not prevent or prohibit and rapid tests are available is one thing, and the fact that employers also use them is very good. But my question is precisely why we do not want to use them more widely in the education system. The current amount in the additional budget does not allow for high speed tests to be acquired in such a way that they can be used more widely. We have also proposed to increase the corresponding expenditure line in the context of the supplementary budget procedure, but the members of the coalition have not supported it. I ask again: why do we not want to introduce speed tests more widely and not replace other tests, but use them as a tool to assist them? I think that this would allow better organisation of work in the education system and faster normalisation of the situation. Second part of the question. I still recall and ask if you have informed the journalist Sildam that there is no way we can communicate with each other. I have no problem with that, I am happy to communicate with you and I would do it more often than we have been able to do so here in brief. And the third thing I want to ask you. At today's body of elders, you claimed that the Estonian Constitution is preventing free action in managing the crisis, that it is not possible to test all arrivals at borders, because such an obligation cannot be implemented under the Constitution, and that quarantine is prevented, because the Constitution does not allow it, just as it does not allow the establishment of corona hotels, etc. Have we really now shown that the current constitution is an obstacle to managing the crisis, or has there been a debate to begin to change the constitution in order to manage crises as flexibly and effectively as possible in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U129	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U130	Thank you. A lot of questions, I'm trying to keep answering. Increased introduction of rapid tests in schools. The main reason we are not doing this is that, on the recommendation of the Health Board, they should also be subjected to rapid tests in the presence of medical staff. Perhaps not everyone can take a quick test, nor can teachers. Like I said, this beam test still involves you putting this match deep in your nose, but that's what the kids are afraid of, and it's too traumatizing. That was why we made this effort to have spit tests or throatwash tests in place in the exams. Now question two. I don't know what journalist Toomas Sildam says, but I haven't talked to him about you. I haven't done that. Now, once in Riigikogu Question Time [Urmas] Reinsalu very attacked me that I did not want to communicate with him, but simply he did not want to communicate with me once when I was the leader of the biggest party in the opposition. Look, these things change that now that you're in opposition, you want to communicate with me, but maybe I don't want to have a lot of contact with you right now. It was the other way around. But I think we're gonna find each other and we're gonna be in tune if there are specific issues. As we've been saying, when we were talking about vaccination, I called, you picked up the phone. And that's exactly how it works. Now, question three, the Constitution. Those things I brought to the attention of the elders. The Constitution says that I do not have it with me now, but in terms of wording, the idea is that the principle is the physical integrity of a person. When we talk about tests, the Constitution prevents people from being subjected to forced tests. I think there are some members of the Riigikogu who would protest against this very much if the people who are coming were captured and pressed into their noses. What have we allowed? We've made rules that you either have to be isolated, or you can release yourself from it with a negative test. We've created this opportunity for people. To force people into the Coronary Hotels, the Constitution actually forbids them. It prohibits forced deprivation of liberty without the reason laid down in the Constitution or the Penal Code. So these are the reasons. The Constitution does not prevent crisis management. I didn't say that. I was talking about these two specific things: forced testing and forced imprisonment of people coming from travel in corona hotels.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U131	Now, one more question. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U132	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! It seems to me personally that, under your leadership, health and research are currently being carried out illegally among the people of Estonia. This is for the following reasons. The package leaflet of AstraZeneca vaccine states that its consequences are unknown in older people, from 60 years of age, nor is it known what the effects of AstraZeneca are on young people. In principle, it has also been said that if you find out about any problems, please inform the Health Board. So we have no argument that these things have not been investigated exactly as they should be. Go on. Maris Jesse sent out a letter on 22 March, even though the proportion of 60-year-olds is not known, which will instruct him to start vaccinations over 60 years of age. It is now a strange situation that absolutely no information has been provided about what conditional contracts are, a conditional right of use for this medicinal product. This is not from the Agency or from Jaak Aab, whom I have asked four times. What is very interesting is that last Thursday morning, Kuku Radio was told such news that you have offered Johnson & Johnson vaccines and are proposing research and medical research. That's what you said on ETV. Now be honest about whether there is illegal vaccination of people in Estonia, which is contrary to § 12 of the Constitution, because people must not be subjected to scientific and medical tests without their knowledge.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U133	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U134	Thank you. No, I don't. Your conspiracy theories are, of course, very dynamic. I haven't read the vaccine package or the leaflet, and I'm surprised you've done it. However, as far as the recommendations of the European Medicines Agency are concerned, at the outset it was not recommended to use this vaccine in excess of 60 years of age because there was not enough research. A little later, I don't know about the dates, the decision of the European Medicines Agency came, and the decision of the Estonian Committee on Immunoprophylaxis that it has now been sufficiently studied and found to be safe for older people. As a result, this vaccine was recommended for all. Indeed, the European Medicines Agency's messages have been misleading. But if you ask me what your theory is, it's like there's some huge plan to force people into vaccination and do everything, I don't know what crazy things, I'll say there are no plans like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U135	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U136	Let's move on to question three in Question Time. It has been submitted by Indrek Saar, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. The issue is managing the health crisis. Indrek Saar, please! I'm sorry, Indrek Saar, I have to interrupt you for a moment. Helle-Moonika Helme, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U137	Thank you. I really do have a procedural question. Based on the Prime Minister's response, I didn't understand one thing. Can we not ask critically and draw attention to what is happening in the country? Does it say anywhere in the house and working order that we have to cute the Prime Minister with our questions, and if we ask him critically and constructively, it will immediately be labeled evil?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U138	Thank you. No, the content of the questions is not regulated in any way. A member of the Riigikogu has the freedom to ask questions that are of the heart, and the Prime Minister and members of the Government, according to these questions, as they wish. It hasn't been regulated in any way. We can move on from here. Indrek Saar, I'm sorry! Now you have the word. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U139	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! First of all, I would like to congratulate you on the messages that reached the public last night. As I understand it, the government has finally reached the point that planning has what you have called a white paper. According to these first signals, you can understand that you are trying to make a long-term agreement in society on how we should behave in this health crisis in different scenarios. This is something that basically suits the social democrats and I personally much better than a daddy government that patronises and says every day which socks must be put on in the morning and what must be done during the day. Such a slightly longer view is, in my opinion, very, very welcome and I very much hope that the government will genuinely deal with it. In addition, it is something that we have talked about here several times in recent months. Together, we demanded this from the previous government for months, and I have asked the Prime Minister repeatedly. So far, the answer has been blurry, but now I understand you're actually acting. That's very nice. However, the thing with which I absolutely cannot agree is that in all the confusion about vaccination, which in recent weeks has unwinded itself more and more before us, you say that questioning is the format with which the Riigikogu should confine itself to discussing the subject. Well, questioning usually takes weeks not to say months before ministers can answer before the Riigikogu. The debate on such a topical issue should certainly not take place in weeks' time. That is why I have the question: why have you in your earlier positions, when we have asked the previous Prime Minister together to come quickly to the Riigikogu in a critical situation, have now made concessions and say that you have nothing to say to the Riigikogu in this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U140	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U141	Thank you for that question. First of all, what I referred to, and on which we actually made proposals in the Riigikogu together in opposition, was that the time for answering questions should be shorter. The Riigikogu's domestic and working procedures could be changed precisely because there should be a format to deal with current issues, so that people can be invited to the Riigikogu quickly. In the rule of law, we must be governed by the law and I have a proposal for the Riigikogu to amend this law in such a way that the deadline for enquiries is shorter. Now about what was going on when we were in opposition. Then there was a situation where the Prime Minister had said that he would come with a political statement, and our question was why he would not come with it sooner. It had to do with the timing. Of course, the law provides for an opportunity to make a political statement, and precisely with this political statement I would like to make a presentation tomorrow. I have asked the Head of the Riigikogu to come and introduce the white book. With regard to this White Paper, I also have the idea that, although tomorrow we will get it in its original format to come and introduce it, we would certainly also like to have discussions in order to have a bottom-up approach. We have all been in this situation, all members of society, and we would like society not to go down and down all the time, but everyone already knows what has to be done and to offer [solutions]. After all, a good example was that during the crisis, the Minister negotiated with the shopping centres what these measures are, the self-ordering rules that they themselves can do, and they came up with it. Such [measures] should also be in other areas, precisely so that each of us knows what we must do at that point and how we must behave when the level of danger is, for example, yellow or orange. But we will also be able to talk about this in the Riigikogu and listen to your suggestions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U142	Thank you. I'll step in with the information. As this question also concerns this issue, I say that the Prime Minister has submitted an application and, as a result of § 155 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, the Prime Minister in the Riigikogu wishes to appear in the Riigikogu on 8 April, which is tomorrow, at the session, with a political statement on the plan to mitigate the effects of the coronavirus for a period of up to 15 minutes. It has also been said to the Prime Minister that members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to ask one question. I have added to the agenda for tomorrow with this political statement, which is the first item on the agenda. It's for information now. But let's keep going. Specific question, Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U143	It has to be said, however, that the things that the Social Democrats talk about may be long and long from time to time, but at least in some form, they still come true. I hope that the response rate will rise in the future, as I hope, in everything that concerns the whole vaccination process, the quality of management will be significantly increased. Because we have now seen it for weeks now, well it has become a kind of saga, like the last government had this Sunday radio show, when the frightening many were waiting for what was said on the radio on Sunday, and the next week the government was forced to deal with it, that repeated vaccinations, which, after they failed, are called pilots, mean that next week we have to deal with explaining why these things went like this, what really meant, why these things weren't thought through, and why so much confusion arose. In this context, perhaps my question is to you, Prime Minister, who have told you that vaccination is an absolutely priority action in order to control the spread of the virus, so that, in all this confusion, we can somehow begin to return to our normal routine of living: what is your plan? What are you going to reorganize in the near future from the point of view of this vaccination regime as regards the governance of the country so that we can be sure that these successive and ever-increasing confusions will be resolved?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U144	Thank you. I do not agree with you that vaccination is a complete mess if we see that vaccination has been successful in Estonia, we have already vaccinated over 21% of the Estonian adult population. Over 231000 people have received the vaccine, and in the European Union we are third in terms of the speed of our vaccination. Of course, vaccination is linked to the vaccine doses that arrive in Estonia, and unfortunately they have not come here as many as we are allowed. These doses have been reduced, so we operate under the conditions of vaccine deficiency. We have agreed that at least 2/3 must go to the risk group vaccination and 1/3 to the front line. If we have had fewer vaccines, we have stopped this vaccination at the front line, so that we can get the medical system out of the way and vaccinate the groups at risk. Last week our goal was to vaccinate 40,000 people, but we vaccinate 41000. On the holidays of three days, our goal was to vaccinate 20000, we vaccinate 17,000 people, precisely for this reason, to receive, above all, vaccinated older people. Yeah, there's been a lesson from this weekend. The lesson is that when we do large-scale vaccinations, older people, who we want to vaccinate now, first and foremost, under the conditions of vaccine deficiency, want a more personalised approach. They want them to be able to communicate with a family doctor, and they also want to be vaccinated near their home. When we look at different cities, many cities went very well over the weekend. For example, in Pärnu, the risk groups we wanted to vaccinate and all doses were delivered. There was a place, and all the elderly knew they could go there, and that's where they got the vaccine. Tallinn is so big and we found out that if vaccinations were carried out somewhere in Lasnamägi, the elderly of Nõmme would rather wait until the vaccination came near his home. An elderly person also wants to consult, he wants to go to his family doctor, who knows his previous concerns, and he wants to communicate more. So that's why we've moved all the vaccine doses that were left over from the weekend to the family doctors so they can vaccinate the groups at risk.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U145	And now one more question. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U146	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I asked you the last time about the fact that the package leaflet does not show any side effects of this vaccine for older people, nor are they known for young people. If you experience side effects, you should inform them. And I'm saying that when I listened to your answer, I had the impression that either the Prime Minister was sitting on the spot or some kind of joke. I mean, you're dealing with the highest level of vaccination at government level, but you're not familiar with the circumstances of the adverse reactions listed on the vaccine package leaflet. You call it conspiracy theory. Are all the drugs that exist written down by conspiracy theorists? Now you make some deals with Johnson & Johnson, you propose research, research [what is done] with the Estonian people. I don't know, you once said that about Jüri Ratas, means that Jüri Ratas would sell Estonia as soon as possible. If the Wheel does, he's very clever and smart, but you're just naively selling it. How can information be classified as conspiracy theories on the package leaflet? Please tell me why you are not aware of what these vaccines are bringing with you! You run the government and take the highest responsibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U147	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U148	Thank you. I'm not a medical professional, I'm an education lawyer, and I don't know everything that healthcare providers need to know. Of course, however, I have read the decisions of the European Medicines Agency's Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee and I am well aware of that. "The Committee assessed the possible relationship of the vaccine to blood clot events and found that: the vaccine's benefits in combating COVID-19 disease (which also causes clotting problems and may be fatal) continue to outweigh the risk of adverse reactions; the vaccine is not associated with a higher overall risk of thromboembolic events; the vaccine has no quality or manufacturing problems that could cause adverse reactions; however, the vaccine may be associated with very rare blood clots (including blood clots in the veins of the brain) associated with low platelet counts (thrombocytopenia), sometimes associated with bleeding." That decision was on 18 March. More than 20 million people have received the vaccine in the United Kingdom and the European Economic Area. Seven cases of thrombosis and 18 cases of blood clots in the veins of the brain have been reported by the European Medicines Agency. If we take airplane flying as an example, there will be 20,000 blood clots per 30 million passengers, 2,000 of them will die. Perhaps what the European Medicines Agency has said, we are all monitoring, of course. We are also monitoring what the Estonian Expert Committee on Immunoprophylaxis says about these vaccines. But I'm not a medical professional, and I'm not ready to appreciate it. They say this vaccine is safe, this vaccine is of high quality, and it provides effective protection against COVID. The probability of mortality in COVID is higher than the probability of [vaccine] having this rare effect. I know that the European Medicines Agency will continue to deal with this, and the European Medicines Agency will, as far as I know, have a press conference today, perhaps right now, where they will explain the side effects of AstraZeneca. I'm not denying that AstraZeneca has side effects. We know there are side effects, fever rises, etc., but it's not dangerous for people. There is a much greater risk of getting this disease, especially for older people, to remain in it and die from it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U149	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U150	Let's move on to question four. It is presented by Martin Helme and answered by Andres Sutt, Minister for Entrepreneurship and Information Technology, and it is an administrative issue. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U151	[[Remote connection]] I have a question from a slightly wider front. The Minister has nice offices such as EAS and KredEx. In particular, during the pandemic period, these institutions have gained significantly higher funding, with both exceptional subsidies and new euro funds. Therefore, I believe that it is important for these institutions to be closely monitored so that the use of the money is very precisely controlled. Last year, the chairman of the board of KredEx resigned, before KredEx had started discussing the financial allocations, and money was later allocated to several institutions. Two of them I'd bring out by name, one is Milrem Robotics, and the other is Magnetic MRO. As far as I can see from the publicly available data, Lehar Kütt has moved to the two institutions that received money from KredEx while he was chairman of the board. I have a question: was such conduct somehow hindered, hindered, or punishable by his contract of employment? Has it been monitored? And if it isn't, do you think it's normal?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U152	Please, Andres Sutt!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U153	[[Remote connection]] As regards the contract of appointment of the previous Chairman of the Board of KredEx, this is the content of the previous agreement between the Supervisory Board of KredEx and the Chairman of the Management Board, which they have agreed on. When we look at today's changes that have been made in the KredEx Council, it was my wish to bring in professional competence. If we take Helo Meigas, for example, who has long experience in international banking, this is precisely the competence we need to ensure that the organisation is well run. Or if we take Veiko Hintsov, he has been a leading partner and founder of Deloitte Estonia with very long experience as an auditor. Or if we also take Mait Palts, mentioned by the Chamber of Commerce, he too has a long-term experience of cooperation between the business sector and policy-making. So I think the strength of each organization begins with a strong council, and here I have a very strong feeling that the KredEx Council has this competence. As far as the restriction of competition is concerned, just as there are very many private sector contracts or, for example, members of the Executive Board of the national central banks within the European System of Central Banks, they cannot, for any period of time, go to work in oversight organisations or in private business with a direct competitor, depending on the area in which the company is active. As a general rule, these restrictions also mention the conditions under which they are permitted and normally require the written consent of the organisation itself. Could such a principle be applied in public sector, say, state-owned companies or foundations established by the state? I think it's definitely worth discussing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U154	The first point to be specified, Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U155	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Well, it is not a question of a non-compete clause; the question is that the same institution that it was in charge of either granted money or granted loans and guarantees to companies to which it later went into paid employment. We have one of the major types of criminal proceedings initiated here on the face of a significantly less prominent conflict of interest. But I have a question. We were talking about the council. You have now substantially changed the composition of the Council. At the end of last year, the KredEx Council, acting unanimously, gave the KredEx Board an obligation to make a crime report regarding Startup Estonia. Internal control was also initiated against Startup Estonia during the previous government, and I think that internal control should be ready for today. This internal control, of course, didn't find any problem anywhere, but I see the problem in internal control itself. In fact, internal control is carried out by the audit committee of the EAS, led by Deputy Secretary-General Lubi, who is also the controller of all this policy and the allocation of its money. Maybe he's in control of himself. The head of the KredEx Council will also continue to be Secretary General of the Ministry Ando Leppiman, who, as a member of the Supervisory Board in this case, controls himself when he controls the financial allocations of the institutions. Can you give us a brief overview of what this internal control has identified? And are you satisfied with the way in which you now have internal control built up in such a way that the controllers are the agents of the funds themselves?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U156	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U157	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, too, for this question. I have expressed this wish very clearly in the expectations of the owners. By the way, this is the first time KredEx as an organisation and also as an EAS organisation gets the owner's expectations. The company or organisation has a functioning internal control system; it is the responsibility of the board and the supervisory board to set up it. I think this is the safest way to ensure good governance. I also wished and wrote down the principle that both organisations must comply in their activities with corporate governance practices, which are used, for example, in the case of stock exchange companies, and I think that, in view of this, the entire governance structure and risk management are certainly more organised than it was so far. As regards whether or not the people of the Ministry of Economic Affairs may or may not be members of the EAS or the KredEx Council, I believe that the communication between the Ministry as a policy-maker and the foundation as the implementer of this policy is important. I still think it's right that the Ministry be represented there. Again, one person as a member of the supervisory board or as chairman of the supervisory board does not influence or control the work of the entire supervisory board. It is important that the Council is made up of people who have experience and competence and who, on the basis of their previous activities and experience, complement each other. As regards the specific internal audit that you are referring to, I think it is appropriate that it is examined by the Bureau and that it is also examined by the Council. Well, certainly not all the internal audit results will reach the Minister's desk, but since you have asked me here today, I will certainly look myself and ask the Council what conclusions they have made on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U158	Now one further question among the members of our Riigikogu. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U159	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! At the end of March this year, a doctoral thesis on ID cards used in Estonia was published by Arnis Paršovs, a doctoral student at the University of Tartu. In his work, the author discovered that the previous manufacturer of the ID card Gemalto violated security requirements and created private ID card keys outside the system. That's how Gemalto did it for five years without security audits tracking it down. The Head of the National Information System Authority says that internal audits are not intended to mitigate all possible security risks and audits are more likely to check whether the institution or process complies with the requirements and standards it has set, adding that if these requirements and standards are already inadequate, the internal audit does not reveal any shortcomings. My question: what have you done, or are you planning to do something to be able to detect further breaches of the security requirements of ID cards? How do you ensure that people have confidence in the security of ID cards?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U160	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U161	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for that question. Certainly, no Estonian ID-card holder has any reason to be concerned that its ID-card is not secure. Cybersecurity and the security of national information systems are very clear priorities, and this has been the case in previous years. I do not think there is any question of consistency here. Over time, of course, standards requirements will increase, and I think it is important that no security breach or incident is overlooked. We are investing to minimise the risks, but never can any risk be completely zero. I think that the most important principles that Estonia, say, has always been at the heart of all the trust of the e-governance, are transparency, security and trust. At this point, I think that a country with 99% of public services available online in digital form is certainly a great achievement. The ID card, the mobile ID, the Smart-ID, all have an important role to play in making this digital state work. In fact, when you asked about this particular case in 2011, there were no additional risks. Those mistakes that were fixed, and the system will continue to work. So cybersecurity and the credibility of our digital state are fundamental principles that we keep very high in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and they are also a personal priority for me.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U162	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U163	Let us move on to question five. But before that, there's a procedural question. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U164	Thank you. I do have a procedural remark and a question. Is the Prime Minister still polite and appropriate to all those who read the package leaflets accompanying medicinal products, labeling them and calling them conspiracy theorists? Is the Prime Minister's understanding that there is a world-wide regime that a leaflet accompanying medicines and vaccines, printed on ordinary people, including the Prime Minister and lawyers, makes sense and is intended only for conspiracy theorists? Perhaps the chairman of the meeting would point out to the Prime Minister that such labelling, evil, and I would even say, hate speech about concerned people who read and consume everything that is legally packaged for them, is not appropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U165	Thank you. But I don't consider it a procedural question. Let us move on to the next question on the agenda, that is the fifth. It is presented by Sven Sester, member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by Tanel Kiik, member of the Government of the Republic, Minister of Health and Labour, and the subject is vaccination. Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U166	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Looking at the questions of Question Time today, I see that there are a lot of questions for Kaja Kallas, and mostly they relate specifically to vaccination, health care and all of its coronathematics. The Prime Minister himself has said in the last week and in the last few days why we are asking him about these issues, because it is really Tanel Swing captain on the boat. That is why I have addressed my question to you. If the captain is Tanel Rock, you have to ask the captain. My questions are driven by the mass vaccination of the last weekend. I myself would sum it up in such a way that it was a mad communication and organisational disaster. I don't think I can make a different conclusion by looking at this whole situation. If you ask why this is so, then I think that you are also told by the various social figures. When you look at the real vaccination rate, 2000 doses were actually given at the University of Tartu Hospital, but less than a thousand people were present, namely 834, at Tallinn Children's Hospital, 800 doses were given, but 346 interested people were present. The Prime Minister gave an example of Pärnu Hospital. True, most doses were given there, but even at Pärnu Hospital, 70 doses were not actually distributed. It's like we don't have any shortage if we just don't deliver a lot of doses. I think there's a big problem here. To be honest, I therefore have a few simple questions for you. First, in retrospect of the last weekend: do you see that there was a problem? The second question, of course, as a follow-up to this, is: what steps do you want to take to prevent such communicative and organisational disasters? This is not really the first time we have to talk about these issues here. We've asked the Prime Minister before, now we're asking you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U167	Tanel swing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U168	[[Remote connection]] Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. I might start by evaluating the weekend. There were certainly concerns over the weekend, there were problems, there were successes, and there were places where the next time better needs to be done. However, we cannot call it, as you have said, a disaster, a situation in which over 17,000 people were vaccinated and in which, during the holidays, dozens of healthcare institutions, hundreds of health professionals, numerous volunteers and all the good people who came to immunise themselves. In fact, we moved forward very clearly with vaccination in Estonia. In total, over 40,000 vaccinations were carried out last week. This is now the fifth week in a row, when the number of vaccinations, i.e. the number of vaccinations, is over 30,000, so it can actually be said that the pace has been quite rapid in Estonia. What to deny is that we are still comparing ourselves with other countries, according to the Baltic States and Nordic countries, we are the fastest vaccineers, in the European Union ranking we are currently the third most, which is not a modest result in the 27 countries. Of course, I agree with you that the possibility of vaccination should be offered to the people of Estonia as soon as possible, but the focus must nevertheless be on the groups at risk, as the COVID-19 scientific council, the National Expert Committee on Immunoprophylaxis, the vaccination steering group and also the doctors, experts in the field of health care have said. In order to reduce the burden of hospital care and gradually help the country out of the crisis, it is essential that the vast majority of vaccines go precisely to those who are most at risk of the disease. In this view, I fully agree that speed is important, but it is also important to reach the right target group quickly. Perhaps we cannot simply quickly do the vaccine, but we must focus precisely on those who need the most protection. In this view, it can also be said that at the weekend, 2/3 of the vaccinations were given to the 60+ age group, who, as we know, account for 75% of the hospital care burden and are also most vulnerable to COVID-19 disease. Of course, the vaccine doses left over this weekend will continue vaccinations. Last night we also had a meeting with the family doctors, where we discussed how to organise work and logistics better and find a solution to their concerns. In any case, it can be said that there are some things that can be done better on each level. Surely I will not come before you to claim that everything is perfect in the case of vaccination. But it can't be said the other way around that this is a disaster. Well, life isn't black and white. Of course, there are places where we need to do better. We'll do better. We will make more detailed summaries of what happened this weekend, along with the private sector, local authorities and hospitals. The first conclusions have been drawn, more thorough preparations for the next time a larger quantity of vaccine reaches Estonia will be made. Of course, we will also take into account the age recommendations and the assessments of scientists and health experts on who is the right focus at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U169	And now for a more specific question, Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U170	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. It is good that you also introduced the word 'private' in your reply. I myself have always believed that, if there is any way to involve the private sector in the activities that the state is doing, it is worth doing so. The private sector generally has efficiency, quick thinking, etc. I would certainly see you doing it even more intensively in the future. I'm sure there's one further question. In the meantime, there were rumors that part of the private sector would be punished by Confido, Medicum. As I understand it, it turns out later, it doesn't. There was a peaceful agreement and a joint press release. Perhaps in a few words you will also reflect the side of your cooperation with the private sector. The second question, since I have the opportunity to ask you today, I will also ask you about it. There has been a lot lately in the case of vaccines, also in the case of AstraZeneca, [told what age it fits]. Once it was said to be more suitable for younger people, the signal was given that it should be done to over 60-year-olds and so on. Perhaps you could now, if you really have this opportunity as the minister responsible for this, also give an overview of it. What are the vaccines coming to us in the near future? Are they safe for us? Give this specific clear overview to Estonian society. I myself say here that it is certainly worth using all the vaccines that Estonia has and has been authorised in Europe. But it would be good to hear it from you as a minister over and over again. What vaccines are coming to Estonia in the near future after these three? And are all three safe for different age groups and so on? This is important to people because there has been so much confusion that can and must not be done, what doctors say, what the Health Board says, and so on. Be nice!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U171	Tanel swing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U172	[[Remote connection]] Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good questioner, thank you very much for your very constructive observations and questions. I certainly consider it reasonable to involve the private sector too. We have done so in a number of links to the COVID-19 crisis, whether it be testing or certain IT developments. There has also been a great deal of support from volunteers, both in spring in developing different solutions, in organising transport, for example in tests, and now in autumn winter in the face of the next wave of concerns. I certainly have been in my position from the start, as I said yesterday, to draw conclusions from the weekend action and learn lessons from all parties, but sanctioning and punishing someone is neither reasonable nor justified. Perhaps the inevitably elderly's interest in coming to certain vaccination centres was less than we expected, and that was our 'forecast error'. Now we have to think about what we are doing in a similar situation when we see that people are not coming to change age limits, are we going to distribute vaccines more operationally? Of course, this communication would also need to be done in advance, but this has so far been hampered by the fact that the supply of vaccines has been sufficiently hectic, but especially in the case of the AstraZeneca vaccine, which, in some weeks, reaches zero doses in the Estonian country, 40,000 or 50000 doses in the second week, and often the period of notice is not very long. Even now, we do not actually know exactly all the deliveries in the coming weeks, i.e. we need to react operationally and reschedule if necessary. As for the other half, i.e. the vaccines coming into the country, between April and the end of June, a million doses of vaccine are expected in the order of magnitude for the Estonian state. The exact delivery schedules have been transmitted in particular by Pfizer/BioNTech, which is expected to deliver essentially 25000 doses each week. This figure gradually increases and reaches 30,000 and more doses. Perhaps in these cases, we know the graphs relatively firmly until the end of June and we are applying for more vaccines at the expense of the additional doses of the second agreement, as well as in accordance with this 10 million distribution, which has also sounded in the media. The Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine can be used from 16 years of age to older age groups. Moderna vaccines are to be somewhat less, in the order of 100,000 or slightly less, in the second quarter. It also has an age limit of 18+ up to the age of 18+, i.e. there is no upper limit. The supply of Janssen Pharmaceutica vaccine starts in the second half of April, the week of 19 April. There are no final delivery schedules yet, but we are allowed over 100,000 doses of vaccine in the second quarter. This is actually very positive because 100,000 doses of vaccine in this case mean 100,000 people because it is a single dose vaccine. In the case of AstraZeneca, the recommendation of the National Expert Committee on Immunoprophylaxis to use it in the 60+ age group and to complete the ongoing vaccination courses is indeed currently valid, with a second dose for those who have received the first dose, but not to start new vaccinations for those under 60 years of age.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U173	And now one more question. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U174	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I am obviously not going to get to the point where the question is registered, so I am going to take the opportunity of an additional question and ask about communication. We have seen for some time, perhaps even for a long time, total chaos in COVID communication. Communication brings together the most diverse people, those who are concerned, as well as those who are not concerned. We have now reached a situation where, because of all this chaotic communication, people are becoming increasingly disquieted about participating in vaccination. This means that some scientists say that astraZeneca can be injected for people over 60 years of age, others say they can't. Then someone who says there's a huge chance for side effects with Pfizer. It is then said that new vaccines will be available, which have already taken account of and eliminated all of these shortcomings in previous vaccines, and therefore these new vaccines will be significantly more effective, with longer-lasting effects, etc. As the responsible minister, how do you comment on this chaotic communication and that the result is an increase in people's scepticism about vaccination?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U175	Tanel swing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U176	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much for your question. In the case of communication, it is, of course, a good thing to be consistent, but in times of crisis, the situation is often changing. In particular, at the beginning of the AstraZeneca vaccine, there were really few studies in older age groups. Very many countries, including Estonia, initially made an age recommendation and decided to use it until the age of 70. We said right away that this recommendation could change if the studies came in March. But, of course, the age limit remained, the message remained, just as in other parts of Europe, as in Estonia. Nevertheless, we have actually been able to use the vaccine successfully; we have not missed it in large quantities, as we have seen in many parts of Europe. Now that these studies came and, in the meantime, more detailed information was available on tens of millions of people who have also used this vaccine in younger age groups, the European Medicines Agency really gave certain guidelines and clarifications on the side effects of the vaccine and possible but very rare health risks for people under 60 years of age. These discussions are currently ongoing in real time. The European Medicines Agency's Pharmacovigilance Committee (EMEA) will discuss this separately and, for its part, deliver messages today. And in the evening, the European Union's health ministers are meeting to get some of this communication on a good track, because there are really different approaches in different countries, different approaches. Some countries use the AstraZeneca vaccine in all age groups; others use it precisely in higher age groups, either 55+, 60+ or 65+. There are differences here too. And there are countries that have left this vaccine on hold at all for more accurate data and for more detailed research, especially the few Nordic countries. The vast majority of EU countries continue to be vaccinated with it, as of course the benefits of using the vaccine are far greater than the health risks. Unfortunately, in a situation where we are in the middle of a pandemic, we do not have time to study and discuss indefinitely. We need to make decisions on the basis of limited information, which is inevitably a sign of the crisis. This must have been done by the European Medicines Agency, the national medicines agencies, the Committee of Experts on Immunoprophylaxis and also the Government of the Republic. As far as communication is concerned, here I fully agree that the more united we are, the better. The clearer the message that you're coming to vaccinate, it's a sensible action, the better. Of course, I am very pleased that, despite what you have referred to, 75% of Estonians actually want to vaccinate themselves. And that interest has grown in time. But I must be honest and very clear that not only government communication and health communication, but also the communication of every member of the Riigikogu, the communication of every party, will play a role here. Unfortunately, a situation where there are also a lot of conflicting messages about vaccination in your own home party has also contributed to the spread of certain rumors and conspiracy theories. Here you must also inevitably ask yourself whether your party is doing its best in the Riigikogu and, more generally, in order to increase the interest and confidence of the Estonian people in vaccination.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U177	Thank you! I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U178	Let's move on to the next question, that's six. It has been submitted by a member of the Riigikogu, Heljo Pikhof, and is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. The subject is the care of relatives. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U179	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Studies show that already before the crisis, one in four people in Estonia were at risk of poverty. The number of these people was 200,000 in 2018, at a time when the Estonian economy flourished. The OECD study points out that nearly 2/3 of these 200,000 people are burdened with the obligation to care for a family member. The international study considers the obligation to care to be such a source of concern that it recommends changing social policy to reduce the rootstock of the best working-age population in a country with an already ageing population. In particular, there is a heavy burden on family members, both in care and... [[Bad hearing.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U180	Dear Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U181	... the solvency of loved ones.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U182	Good questioner!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U183	Prime Minister, when can we say that all those in need have affordable care services and, if necessary, a nursing home?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U184	Dear Heljo Pikhof! I hope you have a microphone on your computer now, and you can hear me. One minute of your question was very well heard, but then the voice was completely gone for 20 seconds. If you could reconsider your question for a moment, please specify the part that has disappeared. I'm gonna need another microphone for Heljo Pikhof. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U185	I've got a microphone in there, can you hear me now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U186	I can hear you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U187	Where did I leave off? I will repeat the question from the beginning.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U188	But maybe you'll make such a short summary. One minute I could hear you very well. Maybe you'll make a short summary. Put back the exact question to the Prime Minister. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U189	In fact, I would like to say that the great burden falls on family members, both in care and in payment for care services, and the availability of services is increasingly dependent on the solvency of the user and his/her loved ones. Question to the Prime Minister: when can we say that all those in need have affordable care and, if necessary, a nursing home?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U190	Please, Kaja Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U191	Thank you for that question. Indeed, Estonia has an ageing population. When I look at the numbers, in 2019 the proportion of the population aged 65 and over was 19.8%. However, it is projected to increase to 25.6% by 2040. People with disabilities make up a significant proportion, i.e. about 12% of the population, and this is also growing: 17% of the population by 2040. There are also many people who care for their family members: 32800. What has the government done? On 25 March, we discussed the 100-day task of developing proposals to support the support system for our own carers. We decided that the Minister for Social Protection, in cooperation with the Minister for Public Administration, would come up with proposals. First, to continue developing the partnership model between local authorities and the state in organising long-term care services and to present a draft law on this in March 2022. In addition, submit alternative sources of financing models for long-term care services to the meeting of the Cabinet of Government, as well as submit to the Government of the Republic a draft amendment to the law on tripartite financing of general care services provided outside the home. The whole point is to support the participation of carers in the labour market of their family members in order to reduce the burden of care and also to link the amount of financial support paid by local authorities to the actual care burden of the carer. What does that mean? This means taking into account the extent to which the work of the carer and the normal living of the normal life, as well as the resulting economic coping, has been prevented.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U192	Thank you. And now one more question. Siim Pohlak, please! [[Silence.]] Siim Pohlak, you are not to be heard. Can we try again? I need another microphone for Siim Pohlak! Heljo Pikhof, do you have a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U193	Actually, I don't have a procedural question, I have an additional question, but I couldn't put up my hand so quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U194	Got it. But sign up again. You have registered your question, you really have an opportunity for one point of detail, that is true. I now ask again to give Siim Pohlak the microphone for an additional question. [[Silence.]] Please have a microphone for Siim Pohlak for an additional question! [[Silence.]] Siim Pohlak, a good member of the Riigikogu, you are still not heard. I have a request: if you can hear me, try to turn off Chrome for a second and turn it back on again. We'll be right back to your supplementary question. Now there is the point of clarification. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U195	[[Remote connection]] [... ] when 10 years and we have repeatedly discussed the topic of informal care in this large Chamber of the Riigikogu, under the leadership of social democrats, we have made proposals to improve the situation. And it is in no way normal for people who have worked their whole life and paid their taxes to pay a pension, for example, for living in a nursing home. It has, then, put an unjustly heavy burden on those who need help. Today, children and grandchildren are the ones who pay for the difference, and their load has skyrocketed. The participation of relatives in Estonia is unprecedented. Municipalities are obliged to come to the aid, but we in Tartu, for example, only on condition that the payer retains less than 220 euros for the care home. But imagine now a two-child family with a single parent who would have to cope with 660 euros a month, and so, for example, the whole time of children's growth. And my question is, when are we going to go from words to actions to finally develop a modern and comprehensive care system? I repeat, we have heard here that everything is already there, is coming, but... Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U196	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U197	Yeah, as we decided, on 25 March, when we discussed a hundred days' plan, one suggestion was the creation of a support system for the relatives. If you ask for specific dates, as you asked, the draft law is planned to be drawn up [is planned to be submitted] by March 2022 and alternative sources of long-term care financing models in the same way by March 2022. The main objective is precisely to support the labour market participation of [in need of care] members of the family and to support the subsistence and home living of those with care needs for as long as possible. Talking to older people is a concern for many of them to be at home, but when help is needed, and how this help should be arranged in such a way that it should not only be done by family members who are inevitably under pressure in this case. Often people who help their needy loved ones at home are excluded from the labour market. The challenge is to find this financing model to reduce the contribution of people's loved ones to financing the general care service provided outside their home. It's for people who need help outside of their home. This model is developed by the Ministry of Social Affairs. And the main point of departure is that not working due to informal care should be an exceptional situation. We want people of working age to work and can be delivered outside the home, i.e. they would not be forced to be just carers. This support must be provided primarily through benefits, in-kind benefits: information sharing, training, support services, etc. But a more specific plan will come in March 2022.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U198	Let us now try again to take an additional question. Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U199	Thank you, Mr President. Looks like I'm hearing it now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U200	You're well heard.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U201	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! Before, there was talk of a hundred days without criticism that you would expect. Remember 2019, as the Reform Party stormed the government, declared the end of the state in the Estonian media and delirious of fascism. Isn't that a little double standards? But there's the thing. I asked about the corona situation. Vaccination is ongoing, there are restrictions in Estonia and there could be hope that the country can be opened by summer. Unfortunately, you are still playing roulette, perhaps even Russian roulette with the Estonian people and economy. Your government still does not consider it necessary to take the situation with full responsibility and to control what is happening at the borders, to test the arrivals of the country, to demand negative corona tests. Is your government the smartest or not? If you look at other countries, I'm afraid you wouldn't. For example, in Israel, a large part of the population has been vaccinated, the country is being opened, but entry at borders remains extremely uncontrolled, as Israeli scientists are cautious about new strains. Similar responsible policies are pursued by other countries where corona numbers are close to zero and restrictions are minimal. I am absolutely convinced that, both financially and in any other dimension, it is significantly more effective to suppress the virus with restrictions in Estonia, to continue vaccination, but at the same time to keep entry controlled and live inside Estonia with minimal restrictions. Do you realize that your unwillingness to control the situation at borders may depend on the survival of thousands of Estonian companies, people's jobs, well-being and stability in the country in summer and autumn 2021? You and your government ministers have repeatedly pointed out that they do not see the need to improve controls at borders. I ask directly: if it turns out by the end of the year that the irresponsible attitude was wrong and results in a difficult situation continuing through the summer and problems with new strains of viruses or, as a result, with new major restrictions in the autumn and winter, will you admit that you failed, take responsibility and resign? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] You're not a prime minister of the weather and a mirror of the sea, you're a prime minister of an unpredictable storm in a situation where it's very easy to turn the state ship sideways.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U202	Honourable questioner, your time is up. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U203	Yeah. This question, however, has nothing to do with the care of your own, but I will answer it. I don't expect a hundred days without criticism. I absolutely didn't expect or expect it, I just pointed out that you may have felt that it has been a very long time, but it has not been a very long time since this government has been working. This, of course, does not mean anything, in the sense that the government must function properly, the government must do its job. We did indeed enter this government in the midst of a crisis and there is a very difficult situation on all fronts. Now your question about requesting negative tests at the border. We have a constitution that says that the physical integrity of people is their fundamental right. As far as I know, your own party is saying that we are building a police state and that we have too much interference in people's privacy. If we put this negative test on duty, it means that there is a forced test and a person has to be forced if he doesn't agree to do the test. We've got a chance to run a test right now. If a person refuses to do so, he should be tested violently somehow. I'd like to see how that's possible. We cannot prevent our citizens from returning home. These are basically the people who are coming home right now. Now for the cases. Last week, 5524 cases were domestic and 127 cases were brought from outside, which is 2.2% of all cases. One of the things that existed during your government and that we changed is the Baltic bubble, which allowed travel from Latvia, Lithuania and Finland without isolation and without testing requirements. That's what we changed. There are now the same requirements for all, including those coming from neighbouring countries. The results of last week's sequencing say that, for example, the South African strain was imported four times from Finland and five times domestic. Perhaps in fact we have restricted the possibilities of coming from Finland and the Baltic States, and now they are subject to exactly the same obligations as coming from third countries to Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U204	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U205	Let's move on to the next question, that's the seventh. Asks a member of the Riigikogu Rene Kokk, answers a member of the government, Minister of Health and Labour Tanel Kiik. The subject is vaccination communication against COVID-19. Rene Chef, please! [[Silence.]] Good René Chef, you're not in the hall right now. Let's try it again.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U206	Can you hear me now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U207	Now we can hear perfectly and see the picture perfectly. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U208	[[Remote connection]] Very good! Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Unfortunately, we are reading news every day about whether the AstraZeneca vaccine is safe for one age group or another. Yesterday there was a confusion with the vaccination of members and officials of the Riigikogu, because the State Chancellery decided to prohibit vaccination with Pfizer's vaccine by persons already on the vaccination list and ordered vaccination with AstraZeneca, although many had already agreed on time. A representative of the scientific council will tell you something about AstraZeneca, and the Health Board will tell you something else. You yourself, as Minister for Industry, are trying to translate in your speeches to the people that one or the other party actually meant by his message. That kind of behavior seems to be, and these messages seem pretty schizophrenic when you look at them from here. Please mention the specific actions and steps you have taken in the last seven days in your area of administration to ensure that the state sends messages that are unambiguous and understandable to people in the future in terms of communication.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U209	Tanel swing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U210	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. Once again, I must agree with the questioner that the messages have been volatile and have clearly raised questions in the recipients, or the population. The honest answer is that the recommendations and guidelines for AstraZeneca vaccine have changed over time. It must be honest to say that similar changes can occur with other vaccines, and more generally with medicines that have only been in use for a short time and for which information is constantly available in real time. Discussions are still really ongoing at the level of the European Parliament. More specifically, the EMEA Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee gathered yesterday and today to discuss health concerns encountered in different countries in relation to one vaccine or another, with a particular focus on the AstraZeneca vaccine. The truth is that the risks have been very low. But there is always a point of consideration from which the country should inform the general public about this risk, from which the country should bring it out. Of course, it is right to be transparent, public, and to describe the concerns, the health risks and the real cases that have occurred for all medicines, and so for vaccines. Today, the European Union's health ministers are meeting at an extraordinary meeting to discuss the same issues, as at European level there are now, one can say, even more conflicting recommendations and guidelines than have been heard in Estonia. In Estonia, we have already talked for weeks, in fact, from the recommendations of the National Expert Committee on Immunoprophylaxis on 18 April, to focus primarily on the 60+ age group and to take into account that there have been rare but serious health risks in younger age groups. If you look at the European map now, there are countries that use the AstraZeneca vaccine for all without any age recommendation, there are countries where it is used in higher age groups, particularly preferably or in terms of guidelines, such as Estonia, Finland, Germany and some others, and there are countries that have temporarily paused the use of this vaccine. I guess this is where we want to figure it out. Clearly, clarity at European level is also important for clearer communication of messages within Estonia. Inevitably, the decisions of the European Union, whether the recommendations of the European Medicines Agency or other countries, will reach our citizens, and we automatically have the question that if, for example, one country decides this side, but another country decides otherwise and the third, whose message should be believed and whose guidelines should follow. We have been in contact with both the COVID-19 scientific council and members of the government on this issue, as well as the Head of the Agency and other representatives, in order to communicate the message as uniformly and explicitly as possible. However, in a situation where messages are constantly changing over the course of this week, the message of the European Medicines Agency has changed and been clarified, and there may still be new news this evening, it is very difficult and difficult to do so. Either way, we'll do our best.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U211	And now please specify the question, René Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U212	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. You didn't quite answer to me what kind of action you've taken or initiated over the last seven days to reduce this mess. Since it is clear that there is no coordination in the provision of messages on COVID and its related vaccination topics, I ask the good minister when you will specifically appoint an official responsible for COVID topics who will communicate this information in a clear way to everyone and clearly reveal to the target group what the country's vision and desire are that we do not hear different versions from everyone. When will such a particular responsible person be named?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U213	Tanel swing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U214	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much for your question. I ran out of time before, of course I would have kept going. But I'm gonna pick up where I left off my answer. As I have pointed out, we have held meetings on communication with members of the Scientific Advisory Board and in the government, and we have also spoken with representatives of the Agency to ensure that these messages are as clear as possible, unambiguous. A precise press release on the recommendations of the National Expert Committee on Immunoprophylaxis has also been issued. This press release went out yesterday and is available to everyone. The Commission itself met the night before yesterday. There, too, we actually gave clear guidelines on which to base at national level. These guidelines were distributed to health authorities as well as to the press. Anyone who is in the middle of a vaccination course with the AstraZeneca vaccine, including myself, belongs to a group whose vaccination continues. For anyone 60+ years of age, this vaccine is still recommended, indicated, and for those under 60 years of age, a decision by a healthcare professional should really be considered whether to start vaccination or to wait until another vaccine is available. Today, exactly 23 minutes from now, a separate press conference will begin with Professor Irja Lutsar, and so will I. That's where we'll explain all the messages again. Of course, if precise information is to be provided by the European Medicines Agency, our own national committee will also gather again to clarify and update these guidelines and to inform the public about them in an operational manner. As far as the appointment of a responsible person is concerned, the crisis in COVID-19 and the fight against it is such a broad issue that, unfortunately, it is not realistic to hope that we will be able to put the whole responsibility for managing this communication on the shoulders of one person. Perhaps in a situation where we need to provide information on the safety of medicines, on the logistics of vaccination, on the negotiations of the European Union, on national plans and on the distribution of risk groups, and at the same time to decide more widely on COVID-19 measures, on the organisation of testing, on supervision, on the legislative side, on government arrangements, etc., it is inevitable that the expertise will be different people. Perhaps COVID-19 is a scientific council, is an Medicines Agency, is a Health Agency, is a Health Insurance Fund, is a Minister for Health and Labour and other parties who all have a role to play in resolving this crisis. Of course, the overall responsibility for the whole area of health rests with me as Minister of Health and Labour. I have been responsible for this for the last two years, and I will carry on as long as I am trusted in this profession. I will do my best to ensure that the leaders of all kinds of institutions and the scientific community also give the population as clear and understandable messages as possible in a changing information field, where even today's sentence may be inaccurate tomorrow and, unfortunately, everything is very difficult. We'll do our best. Unfortunately, we see the same problem as we have seen in Estonia across Europe. I have also had a lot of contact with my colleagues on this subject. It has not been possible to propose a miraculous solution here in other countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U215	And now one more question, Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U216	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I never thought you'd be doing a huge commercial for the EKRE to answer a question. When we were in the government, we were insanely powerful, we did what we wanted. Now we're in opposition, now we're in trouble again, because you can't handle governance because EKRE dominates everywhere. Mart Helme asked a beautiful question that why your communication is controversial, it is necessary to vaccinate 60-year-olds because it is reasonable, and it is not necessary to vaccinate them, and astraZeneca must not be given to people under 50 or 60 years of age. Why this conflicting communication? You say nicely to this question that, unfortunately, our party, the EKRE, provides contradictory information. I'm really getting the weirdest impression. Oh, my God! How, then, can the EKRE influence the government's actions now if you give press conferences every week and talk about everything? Is it still the EKRE that directs the whole economy and the exposure to the corona crisis? Tell me what the evidence is of this controversial communication, point one. And the second question is this. People texted me that they really wanted to meet you here in front of the Riigikogu. Are you ready to go out and talk to them? I hope you're not afraid of your people. So two questions in one.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U217	Tanel swing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U218	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much for your question. The point of my message was: if we want communication to be coherent, and if we want public awareness and communication to be as clear as possible, then all parties must contribute. Perhaps I do not think that EKRE dominates Estonian politics. He's not gonna do that. And I didn't say that. However, given that every political party elected to Parliament has a mandate for the people, there are a certain number of voters, a certain number of followers and certain media, also in social media, these messages are, of course, being monitored, and of these messages either draw conclusions or, at the very least, they cause confusion and doubt to people. Inevitably, it is not worth taking responsibility away from ourselves and diverting it all elsewhere, in a situation where all of us have a considerable audience, it is in social media, in media speeches or in video returns, even in the case of the dissemination of all kinds of conspiracy theories. And, unfortunately, conspiracy theories only undermine trust. But more broadly, as I said before, 75% of the population wants to be vaccinated. So it can actually be said that we have gradually raised this interest, it has been an information campaign, it has been a general people's own reading, awareness or even gradually news about how vaccination actually helps and has already helped significantly to alleviate the burden of hospital care, it will continue to help in the future by protecting people's lives and health. As far as the other side of your question is concerned, I am really in the ministry, where a press conference is beginning in 17 minutes, so unfortunately, I cannot come to Parliament at the moment. After that, there will be other meetings. I am certainly not afraid of the people of Estonia; there is no reason for this. On the contrary, I like the people of Estonia, like the people of the wider world, but the people of their homeland are still the most beloved of all of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U219	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U220	Let us move on to question nine. It is presented by a member of the Riigikogu, Helmen Kütt, a member of the government, Tanel Kiik, Minister of Health and Labour, and the topic is financing the construction of a new hospital in Viljandi. Helmen Hunter, please! Helmen Hunter, I'm sorry, one moment! A procedural question, Kalle Grünthal, please! A mike for Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U221	Thank you. I do not understand the ideology that was happening here. There was a quick-fingered round, and I won the race again in this race, but at one point the whole list was pulled down and started again. Tell me what's going on!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U222	Thank you. I see it too, and I see that you have a very good reaction, Mr Grünthal. But I think what happened was that it was thought that we were going to the eighth question put by Urmas Reinsalu. However, since Urmas Reinsalu spoke to me earlier and said that he had certain duties at the moment, unfortunately two things have collapsed, and he is not in the Chamber, we went to question nine. I guess that's because I went to question nine, and that's why I'm re-re-re-re-re-renewed. I think that was the reason. But let's move now... Mr. Grünthal, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U223	Yeah, I don't know what's going on in this hall right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U224	Question Time. Question Time, April 7th. [[Kalle Grünthal says something about it.]] Please give the microphone to Mr. Grünthal, then he can ask nicely for the microphone. Please, Mr. Grünthal! You see, now you have a microphone.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U225	I don't know what's going on right now. You're just deleting a list of those who have a faster reaction. If there's been some kind of situation like you mentioned, you should have said it in advance. I mean, I don't agree with you on how this whole process is being conducted. That goes against, let's say, our rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U226	Okay, thanks. You have that right, whether you agree or not. I explained that the next questioner should have been Urmas Reinsalu, a member of the Riigikogu, but he himself came and said that since he is not here in the Riigikogu Hall at the moment, he cannot ask. So we are now really on question nine. Helmen Hunter, please, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U227	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! On the proposal of the Socialist Health and Labour Ministers, the Viljandi Hospital and the Health Centre Tervikum were found to be building funds in the state budget. This has also been seen as very important by the current government. There are ministers who are talking about good practice, how the health centre-hospital will provide a more human-centred service and how social work and health care are better connected, for example, within the framework of the PAIK project. A press release has also emerged today, which shows that the total cost of the project is significantly higher than the financial resources so far foreseen. These are EUR 31.5 million of EU money, 4.5 million of state budget funds and 11.4 million of the budget and loans of the Viljandi Hospital Foundation. And it is also known that there is a time limit for European Union funds, i.e. the money should be in place by the end of the summer of 2023. How have you planned, or do you see here as an opportunity to find additional public funding? It is clear that the hospital and health centre project are very important. This is certainly also a regional investment. We all know how quickly a budget solution was found for Tallinn Hospital. What are your plans? It is gratifying that this project has been considered important by the various governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U228	Tanel swing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U229	[[Remote connection]] Dear Chairman, Honourable questioner, member of the Riigikogu, thank you for a very important subject. You rightly said that Viljandi Hospital has been regarded as important by various governments and various ministers, including the Prime Ministers. Of course, I, too, consider it important to make progress on this new information. The financing of Viljandi Hospital has indeed received support from European Union funds and also from the state budget, in the meantime also from the redistribution of European Union scrap from earlier periods. Now the Viljandi Hospital has really submitted an additional request, due to the increase in the price of tenders compared to the original forecast. As Minister of Health and Labour, I will take this issue to the Government's Cabinet meeting in the context of discussions on the country's budget strategy. Perhaps we have formally made an additional request to find the necessary additional money, an amount of EUR 10.9 million, if I am right in my head now. Of these, in 2022, the need will be in the order of 1.1 million, and in 2023 it will be in the order of 9.8 million. In any case, we are working to find a solution. I very much agree that Viljandi deserves, just as all Estonian counties deserve modern comfortable customer-friendly health and social centres. In fact, with the support of the European Union's resources and also with the help of national possibilities, we want to gradually repair, renew or even build new buildings in several other Estonian counties. Discussions have taken place on Saaremaa, in the context of Kuressaare Hospital, and discussions have also taken place with the Mayor of Narva in the view of establishing a new hospital in Narva. Thoughts have actually been even wider, we have discussed [building] in several parts of Estonia in the regions. Tallinn Hospital is one of the many major projects that the previous and the current government have certainly considered to be right, and for that we are applying for European Union funds. However, it is very important to develop a comprehensive health network, both in the form of primary hospitals and in the form of infrastructure for social and health centres.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U230	And now the point to be clarified. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U231	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Minister, for this answer. I do not have a direct question, but I very much wish you success in the budget negotiations. If necessary, the Social Democrats will be behind you and supporting one hundred percent. So good luck to you and once again thank you for your answers!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U232	Does Minister Tanel Kiik wish to respond to this comment? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U233	Thank you! I will rely on successful negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U234	And now one more question. Imre Sooäär.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U235	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, First of all, I'd like to clear something up earlier. Unlike my good colleague, Kalle Grünthal, I do not think that you have done your job badly, and I think your ratings show that you have done better than many ministers in previous governments. Thank you very much for that. With regard to the issue of Viljandi Hospital, I think that is a very good question, which was raised by Mr Kütt. Thank you for mentioning Kuressaare Hospital in your reply. Actually, it's a lot of places. But I have a question that has something to do with this. In fact, care is not only provided in hospitals and nursing homes. My question relates to the informal caretakers, who, in my opinion, are also frontline workers. Couldn't personal carers be considered as frontline workers so that they can also receive a priority vaccination? Because they are forced to be in contact with those who are being cared for, many of them have poor health, and not everyone gets to the hospital, either Viljandi or Kuressaare. Could it also be shown with regard to informal caretakers that they are practically frontline workers because they are in daily contact with their carers?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U236	Tanel swing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U237	[[Remote connection]] Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable questioner, thank you very much for your constructive question. In fact, we treat carers as frontline workers. We do not have a national database for all the carers, but we do know those who are officially receiving care support through the local government. We know people who are officially employed, for example, in nursing homes and special care units, but there is no national base for people who may be part or all in the job of caring for someone close to them. Indeed, this order of magnitude amounts to tens of thousands, and there may be nearly 70,000 of them. We have agreed with the family doctors that if there is a person on their list who cares for his or her loved one who wishes to receive a vaccination, he or she could be given this priority, precisely because he or she is protected by a carer who may be in a weak state of health, while also ensuring that the carer is sufficiently strong and healthy. This allows us, on the one hand, to reduce the risk of transmission of infection and, on the other hand, to ensure that the person is healthy because he, in turn, depends on the life and health of other people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U238	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U239	Let's move on to question 10. It has been presented by Riho Breivel, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. The subject is this: "Accordingly, I have been approached by parents and especially by parents whose children study in non - native languages, that they have major problems with their children's home education. How does the government plan to solve this problem, and what are the time limits? " Riho Breivel, please! [[Silence.]] Dear Riho Breivel, you have not been heard at the moment. Let's try to reconnect. A microphone for Riho Breivel, please! [[Silence.]] I'm sorry, I still can't hear you. Riho Breivel, a good member of the Riigikogu, may I ask you, if you can hear me, to turn off Chrome for a moment and then turn on again? [[Silence.]] Let's try it again. Please have a microphone for Riho Breivel when he's reconnected! Please, Riho Breivel! You can be seen, but unfortunately your voice is not heard. We can't hear your voice, Mr. Breivel. Perhaps you can try asking a question without a video bridge, i.e. without a picture, only with a voice. [[Silence.]] Unfortunately, we can't hear your voice, Mr. Breivel. Do you have a microphone button in the wrong position on the computer or on the wire? Unfortunately, this has not worked at the moment. What if you try without headphones? Let's try to talk directly to the computer for a second. Take that wire off the computer, maybe you can hear it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U240	I'm trying to talk straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U241	Look, Mr. Breivel, you did it! Now you can hear your voice well. Please start again! You have your word.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U242	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! I have already completed the title of the question in length because I have taken into account that maybe there is no hearing and then I can at least answer it. Since there are a lot of people in Ida-Virumaa, and especially students whose home language is not Estonian, they have serious problems studying via the Internet. That is why many parents have approached me and asked how this matter could be resolved. What is the government's vision of how we can finally get these children to complete their education?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U243	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U244	Thank you. Education is very important. Firstly, we would like to make sure that children do not spend more days in distance training than is strictly necessary. We will therefore see how children can get back to contact education. Studies show that distance learning is suitable for about 31% and 41% of students see little difference between distance learning and non-distance learning. What have we done to help both students and teachers? Teacher training students from Tallinn University and University of Tartu have offered themselves as an assistant teacher in schools, including Russian-language schools. It is known that in Russian-language schools there are assistant teachers in seven such schools, but they are prepared to help even more. A short-term substitute teacher service is also offered, but it may not be so much for people at home as teachers. We are also developing a support measure for summer learning camps. It is designed to help those students who are left behind, and there are equally different educational camps for young people with different native languages. We also provide support to teachers in Russian-language schools in the form of a Russian-language support line. It's open on Tuesdays at 12.20 and phone number 7350760. Teachers can get help by calling this support line. The teacher who should help is still the closest one to the student. But we know these problems and they are not only for Russian-language students, but for all students. Firstly, we are trying to get schools back to contact training, as far as the virus situation allows, and secondly, to provide support measures to help these pupils in particular.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U245	Thank you very much. As Question Time is about to run out, I will stop dealing with this issue. I thank all the members of the Riigikogu for their questions and thank the members of the Government for their answers. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U246	Ladies and gentlemen, we will start the 10th working week Wednesday session of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. We have an opportunity to hand over drafts and inquiries. Please! The first to ask for the floor is Tarmo Kruusimäe. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U247	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good coworkers! It is a great honour for me to hand over, on behalf of the Isamaa Group, the draft bill on the abolition of slavery, which concerns the burden or the removal of the obligation imposed on homeowners by local authorities. As an Estonian state, we have evolved, we are already helping people in need of help in the world, but as a country we have forgotten to make a correction for mistakes, a small audit of whether all our laws are still working and whether they are in today's time. The Isamaa Group considers that it is no longer appropriate to impose an obligation on homeowners to maintain local government streets in 2021. All the more so as both local authorities and homeowners must be treated equally. Today, it is the case that some local authorities are already doing this work, while another local authority places it on the homeowners of [the task]. It is even worse to hear the local government think that if the owner of the home has become older and can no longer maintain and maintain the streets of the local government without money, the home must be sold. Let us make sure that we no longer have unequal treatment, that some local governments care and that others peel. Let's stop peeling! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U248	Looks like there's no more drafts and no more questions. So I have adopted one draft, and the Bureau will of course decide on further proceedings in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Now we're conducting a presence check. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U249	84 members of the Riigikogu registered as presently absent 17. Ladies and gentlemen, Clarification of the agenda. Prime Minister Kaja Kallas has expressed his wish to make a political statement at the session of the Riigikogu tomorrow, 8 April. On the basis of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu has therefore added to the agenda for tomorrow's sitting and added Prime Minister Kaja Kallas's political statement to the first item on the agenda. Mr. Kruusimäe, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U250	I have, yes, a procedural question. I will be the rapporteur for the Committee on Legal Affairs on the second item tomorrow. If the Prime Minister now makes a political statement and then the Minister of Culture Anneli Ott gets the floor, then I do not see the possibility that we can reasonably process the second reading of bill 215. How does the board decide that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U251	Thank you. We'll see about that tomorrow. I don't know what to say until then. If we don't have time to process it tomorrow, it'll be postponed to the next week.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U252	Now let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the second reading of the Draft Act 357 on the Additional Budget of 2021, initiated by the Government of the Republic. The Chair is invited by Erki Savisaar, Chairman of the Monetary Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U253	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Riigikogu! The Finance Committee discussed the draft Supplementary Budget Act 2021 in preparation for the second reading, including 25, 26 and 31 March and 5 April. A number of ministers also attended the meeting of the Commission on 26 March: Minister for the Environment Tõnis Mölder, Minister for Enterprise and Technology Andres Sutt, Minister for Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse, Minister for Culture Anneli Ott, Minister for Education and Science Liina Kersna and Minister for Public Administration Jaak Aab. Ministers gave a good overview of the additional budget in their area and also provided in writing the draft regulations for support measures or the distribution keys and the additional information requested from them on the measures. The other four ministers, who have also been given new resources with an additional budget, gave their overview already before the first reading in the Riigikogu plenary. To remind you so much, the additional budget is 641 million euros, which is intended to help Estonian residents, businesses, society and the health care system. The package of measures includes the means to pay wage subsidies in sectors where work volume decreases due to restrictions, the continuation of sickness allowance from the second day of illness, additional measures to maintain mental health, special care and rehabilitation, additional funds for medicines, vaccination and crisis management, and support measures for the tourism sector, cultural organisers and artists. By the deadline for submitting amendments, 31 March at 5.15 p.m., 11 amendments were received, including one from the Group of the Estonian Social Democratic Party, five from the Group of the Isamaa, four from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and one from Imre Sooääre, a member of the Riigikogu who withdrew his proposal during the procedure. Explanations of the amendments can be found in the list of amendments. The proposed amendments were not supported by the government and the Commission rejected the amendments received. The main reasons why this happened were as follows. The purpose of drawing up the supplementary budget is to focus strictly on the support measures resulting from the necessary constraints and directly on the costs of the pandemic. A total of EUR 109,3 million has been planned in the state budget for 2021 to finance core R &amp; D instruments, including basic funding, research grants and public R &amp; D institutions, including additional funding of EUR 43 million by 2021. Of the additional funds, €22.4 million has been planned for the Ministry of Education and Research. Within these funds, it has been possible to prioritise activities in the budget and to cover the necessary expenditure. The additional budget for the sport sector provides for support measures of EUR 4.2 million. The support measures also reflect, inter alia, the proposed EUR 0,6 million measure for sport federations to cover their own revenues and to alleviate restrictions. However, the paragraphs in the text of the supplementary budget are not the right place to provide guidance on budget expenditure savings. Pursuant to § 28 (2) of the State Budget Act, the annual State Budget Act sets out provisions the obligation to submit the provisions of which arises from the legislation or which relate to the organisation or conditions of the collection, receipt, brokering or use of state resources in the financial year. At the end of the debate, the Commission reached a consensus on the following procedural decisions: a second reading could be concluded in this large Chamber today and the deadline for amendments would be set at 12 noon on 9 April, and when the second reading is closed, the Commission's proposal is to put the third reading of the draft and the final vote on the plenary agenda by 14 April. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U254	Good Commissioner, there are also questions for you. Helmen Hunter begins. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U255	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! You have very nicely pointed out that amendments have also been tabled. Regrettably, I understood that the Commission did not take into account any of these amendments, nor did the government consider it necessary to take them into account. It is good practice that if we are in a crisis together, we will seek solutions together. Indeed, from the 11 amendments tabled, such as the first day of compensation or the rapid tests [greater funding], did they really not deserve a discussion to be taken into account and supported?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U256	Thank you. Undoubtedly, all the issues raised by the amendments are extremely important. However, their solutions should come from the resources already available this year, and in the future it will be a matter of the state budget for next year or, more generally, of the national budget strategy. When we are talking here about [funding for testing and vaccination] and other support measures, they already have sufficient resources in the state budget, with additional budgets. In addition, quite a considerable amount has also been placed in the reserve of the Government of the Republic, with which the Government of the Republic will also be able to cover additional expenses if they occur.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U257	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U258	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! The additional budget will provide EUR 12 million for the Ministry of Education and Research to organise summer camps in order to level out the educational gaps that arose during distance training. But when the Minister of Education and Science, Liina Kersna, came to the Commission to present us with this plan, she said that the cost of this measure would be EUR 6 million. My question is, where did this 12 million come from now that the Ministry of Education and Research had calculated the cost of 6 million, and what were the reasons for the Ministry of Education and Research? If we consider that in the summer we may still have a coronal situation such that we cannot arrange camps where all children are very close and closely connected, and then if it turns out that this money is not being used, is there a plan that can be achieved in this respect with an additional budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U259	Thank you. If some funds are left unused in the budget, then to some extent they can be carried forward to the next year, or they will remain unused, and perhaps in the coming years more funds can be planned in the budget. Now that the question of the Ministry of Education and Research is open, it is not just one measure that all the money is meant for. There are a number of activities that are supported. I'm trying to find the descriptions here, where I had the more detailed explanation. Indeed, children's and young people's camps are planned, but they are not intended to be carried out outside school in the context of activities of interest, where they can repeat, in addition to all other fun activities, where necessary, the knowledge that should be clear from the school bench. This is certainly not a mandatory event where all children of Estonia must attend. In addition, the funds [are] provided for, for example, the purchase of computers for children who have not had the opportunity to do so. Some part of these [computers] will be available as early as the spring season, but something will definitely remain by autumn. Additional resources are available, for example, for the purchase of rapid tests, etc. So the measures planned by the Ministry of Education and Research are diverse.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U260	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U261	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Most of the amendments dealt with by the Committee on Monetary Affairs were covered by the reserve of the Government of the Republic. During these discussions, I realised that the basic budget had EUR 33.9 million in the reserve of the Government of the Republic at the end of January, and then a little more money had to be transferred, but it was largely already covered by commitments by the end of January. So it was because the additional budget increased the reserve of the Government of the Republic. I'm asking what's going on with this government reserve. Has this government reserve already been filled on purpose, and is there even room in the reserve of the Government of the Republic to make it the source of the amendments?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U262	Thank you. These additional resources, which are now being transferred to the reserve of the Government of the Republic with an additional budget, are certainly free funds that the government can use according to emerging needs. After all, the pre-booking is essentially only for one amount, as regards compensating for the suspension of payments from the second pension pillar for those who decide or decided to leave the second pension pillar this year. All the rest of the funds in the reserve are still waiting for further decisions, and nothing is allowed before the budget is adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U263	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U264	Thank you. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! The additional budget is well planned for expenditure related to the launch of the pension reform, EUR 117 million, but not a cent has been introduced by the revenue. It's very strange. The Minister of Finance explained that the government did not put it in because it did not know the exact prognosis, which, of course, is not credible at all. I suspect the Ministry of Finance has lost its ability at all. The basic law of the budget provides that all revenue and expenditure arising from the law and known to it must be included in the budget. It's known the law is going to start, the cost side is in. As a result of the economic forecast, a credible revenue side of EUR 300 million is also known today. I ask whether there was no debate in the Commission so that the revenue side should and could be turned on in the course of the procedure. What's your position? After all, revenue could now be incorporated into the Commission's proceedings and we would bring this additional budget into line with the basic law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U265	Thank you. Indeed, there was a debate in the Commission on the spring forecast, where we got an overview of the impact of this pension pillar on income and expenditure as well as on the other effects that our economy has on, and trends over the next year and the longer term. However, we have the procedure for dealing with the budget in the Riigikogu in such a way that we can no longer introduce such changes in this Riigikogu. All these joys and concerns will be reflected in next year's budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U266	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U267	[[Remote connection]] Good waitress! I would like to ask a little more about the eighth amendment tabled by Mr Sooäär. Why did he take it back? What was the justification? Was there any conflict of interest in the air that, since it itself carries out activities in the field of rural tourism, it was not considered appropriate for it to submit this proposal? Or what exactly was the reason why this proposal for seasonal support for rural tourism was withdrawn?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U268	Imre Sooäär sent a letter to the Committee on Monetary Affairs saying that, since the government had set up a working group on Thursday last week to deal with the issue and the problem of seasonality of crisis assistance, which the unemployment fund did not allow at the time to solve in the rural tourism sector, he asked for its amendment to be removed from the list. We look forward to a solution to this issue by the government and the Commission. And if there is no solution at government level, we will be able to make further changes to the budget within the framework of the third reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U269	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U270	Thank you. Thank you, good waitress, for that answer. But from this push, however, I would point out that all the reasons that you have read were also examined by us in the presentation by the Minister of Education, on which he has proposed an estimated EUR 6 million. Now we can see that the additional budget is EUR 12 million, instead of EUR 6 million, for exactly the same things. Okay, I understand it's very difficult for you to explain where you suddenly needed an extra $6 million. But I have another question. I proposed to pay teachers a bonus of one month's salary for the additional tasks due to the corona apandemia and the successful integration of distance learning. The Commission rejected this [proposal]. Now tell me, didn't the Commission consider such a thing necessary? Did they not want to commend our teachers for their great and grateful work? Or was it because of where I wanted to take the money?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U271	Thank you. Speaking of this EUR 12 million, it can be broadly divided into two parts. The first EUR 6 million is for summer camps to offer children and young people both mental health-enhancing entertainment, learning skills development and learning gaps. The second EUR 6 million is intended to contribute to mitigating the effects of the long-term crisis in private education and interest and private schools, private day-care centres and facilities. There are two such large blocks. Now, yes, indeed, the amendment was to pay the teachers a bonus because of the more difficult work that had to be done during the crisis. Of course, everyone felt that teachers needed support and deserved support, but this support is actually also deserved by representatives of many other areas of life, be it medical workers or rescue workers. All in all, we have all been together in this crisis, and the entire Estonian people would need some kind of bonus. The Commission did not see an opportunity to highlight one of the stakeholders in this way. This issue should be resolved in a different way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U272	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U273	Thank you. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! I congratulate you that you, as the fresh chairman of the committee, are already so familiar with the law, and you know that you cannot simply increase revenue in this process. But did it become clear in the Commission and whether the Commission was interested, or was it not really interested in why the Government of the Republic submitted an additional budget without a revenue side? Why did he decide to hide EUR 300 million, didn't want to show it on the revenue side? After all, it would also have answered the questions that are being asked here that [could] one-off support be paid to teachers and perhaps also to medical and rescue workers, etc. If an additional 300 million had been added to the revenue side, it would have allowed expenditure to be incurred. Why did the Government of the Republic decide to hide these revenues, knowing that they were actually coming this year?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U274	Thank you. First of all, it cannot be said that the revenue side is not included in the additional budget. The expenditure side of the budget is EUR 641 million, but the impact on the budgetary position is more than EUR 400 million, the circa 200 million has been added to the revenue. However, in his introduction, the Minister explained the lack of a revenue side of the second pension pillar by the fact that it was not yet clear at that point how many people would apply and what this income side would be. The additional budget wanted to come to the Riigikogu quickly so that the support measures provided for in this additional budget could reach those in need as soon as possible. That was the ministry's justification.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U275	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U276	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear waitress, In response to Mr Hunt's question, you said, among other things, that the funds that should be foreseen are already in the budget or that they should be foreseen in the budget for next year, but that does not really answer the question that Mr Kütt asked. The Social Democrats tabled an amendment to find EUR 8,5 million in compensation for sick days. This is, among other things, supported not only by social democrats and health experts, but also by the Estonian Small Business Association and trade unions. It is certainly not in this year's budget, although it would only represent 1.3% of the total additional budget. Did the Committee on Monetary Affairs discuss why these additional resources were not found there?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U277	Thank you. There are certainly funds available in the state budget to compensate for sick days. These funds are available there to compensate for sickness days from the second day of sickness and this second day of sickness reimbursement is extended at least until the end of the year. Now, indeed, the Social Democratic Party Group has tabled an amendment to compensate for sick days from the first day of illness, and on this point we did not agree in the Commission whether this is the best measure. The possibility of reimbursement of sick days from the first working day can also be used on a voluntary basis by employers. This can also be done by municipalities. I know that Tallinn, for example, is using this opportunity to support its people. All support does not always have to come from the state budget and therefore this change was not taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U278	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U279	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good Vice President of the Riigikogu! Good Erki! I'm not gonna register another question, but I have two questions, so I'm gonna ask you one at a time. First thing. We are not the first day here in the Riigikogu and we know exactly how the state budget is handled. Sven Sester, the former chairman of the Monetary Commission, said very simply that, listen, friends, the submission of amendments before second reading is a collection of ideas and, indeed, we do... [[The connection's breaking up.]] That is what you said, too, that it is likely that the tourism proposed by Imre will become an amendment before the third reading. Tell me what else will come of the amendments that are on the table today. And the second question. You said there was no consensus on the reimbursement of sick days since the first day of sickness. What's that behind? Do you think it doesn't reduce the spread of the disease?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U280	Thank you. There will certainly be some changes to these initial plans. The question is simply whether this amendment concerns a ministerial regulation, the key to sharing how this measure will be implemented, or whether it really needs to be allocated separate funds on a separate line in the supplementary budget. I believe that this issue of rural tourism will be resolved. Secondly, it seems that we have one fisheries support measure in the budget, which I think would make sense to draw it off, because I see no reason why these operators would need this support in this way. I think that this sector should not have a problem selling fish on the Estonian market, and if they were active in doing so today and did not expect some international borders to be opened, they would be able to market these fish themselves at a perfectly reasonable price without having to come to the aid of the state in any way logistically or by other means. Now, as far as sick days are concerned, this measure of compensation for sick days from the second day of illness has certainly worked and reduced the spread of the virus. It would certainly also have a positive impact if the first day of sickness were not so heavy on the employee or employee. However, as I said, there was no consensus on this and, therefore, this amendment was not taken into account at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U281	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U282	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good chairman of the committee! The fastest way to overcome the epidemic is when entrepreneurs, workers and the state act together. We know that entrepreneurs are making great efforts to prevent the circulation of COVID-19 in the working environment. It is clear that, despite various aid measures, not all viral lesions in the workplace can be completely prevented without vaccination. If we can't vaccinate at the right rate right now, why don't we take rapid tests? The budget is only EUR 850000 for rapid tests, and only for schools. There's only enough for schools for a few months. What about the companies? Making testing widely available and convenient for humans helps to prevent the spread of the virus, and therefore more rapid tests need to be introduced. We had a proposal for improvement to invest more in rapid tests. Do you think we could support that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U283	Thank you. As you said yourself, funds have already been earmarked for the purchase of rapid tests in the supplementary budget, and there will certainly also be the possibility of fast tests being purchased by private companies wishing to use them. Undoubtedly, the best way to combat this virus is currently known to be vaccination, which [must be done] as soon as possible. This budget has nevertheless been drawn up in the belief that during the spring summer period, we will be able to vaccinate enough of the Estonian population to provide protection for the vaccine, and hopefully we will be able to go to autumn without restrictions. If we are now talking about the possibilities of using these rapid tests, I do not rule out that if we are now starting to ease the restrictions during the spring period, perhaps it is worth considering that the rapid tests will also shorten the quarantine period, which is now ten days. Maybe these rapid tests can shorten it. But discussions are ongoing, and I believe that this is definitely not going to be behind the money. As I said, there are also additional resources in the reserve of the Government of the Republic if demand emerges.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U284	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U285	(Brace connection) Thank you, Mr President. Good Erki! I understand that the Commission has, in many ways, focused on the fight against the unknown in the future, where we will then go in a crisis situation or what will come next year with regard to the issue of pension reform. You replied to Mr Seedr that the joys and concerns of pension reform will probably be reflected in the context of next year's budget. Why don't you shed some light on what the pleasures are and how big are these problems?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U286	Thank you. The Committee on Finance focused on the processing of the additional budget; we did not have much time for other ancillary activities there. However, yes, there was an opportunity to hear the spring economic forecast. While we are now talking about the implications for next year's budget, part of this, of course, concerns the increasing one-off income tax receipts that will arise. Secondly, social tax revenues will certainly improve and this, in turn, hopefully will also allow pensions to be increased as a matter of urgency, as foreseen by earlier budgetary strategies.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U287	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U288	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, In answering my first question, you spoke and gave examples of everything else, not sick days, and focused on the topic that 70% of the second day of sickness was extended until the end of the year. Did you actually understand in the Commission that the Socialist proposal only concerned the sick and close contacts of the kroon virus? This did not concern those who break their legs and this is not the opposite of the existing proposal to extend the year to the end of 70% [within the scope of the grant]. This specifically concerned dealing with the disease, containing the virus and focusing on its activities. We are all happy to borrow as a country, but as you have illustrated, it depends on the municipalities whether or not they receive support from [sickness or close contact]. Did it understand what the Social Democrats actually proposed?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U289	Thank you. I believe that all members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs understood very well what the Social Democratic Party Group proposed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U290	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U291	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable performer! When you answered my husband's question, you said that it was not conceivable that different groups would be brought out somehow. Well, that's not true. You have brought out the various groups in this extra budget, the tourist operators you have identified, and also several other groups. So it's perfectly justified to bring out teachers as a separate group. Among other things, you have pointed out some kind of fish farmers as a phenomenon in themselves and as beneficiaries of aid, so there is enough grouping here. However, the reason why I am taking up this issue is that [despite the fact that] this additional budget has not been specifically mentioned for teachers, it is clear to all of us that, in the current situation, teachers are faced with an exceptionally difficult task in terms of distance learning, and this certainly deserves attention and reward. I ask whether the discussions on the country's budgetary strategy are to consider the premium for teachers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U292	Thank you. As has been said many times, the additional budget is intended to mitigate the effects of the crisis and not reward anyone. [The objective is] to reduce the loss of revenue that the crisis has had and to compensate for direct damage. Now this statement that teachers are very complicated. Undoubtedly, adapting to new circumstances is difficult. But many of the teachers with whom I have been communicating are once again very satisfied with the arrangements for distance learning and find it much more enjoyable to carry out the training and it is more comfortable than in the school environment. Opinions are undoubtedly different, and this is also the case among students. There are those who are very fond of this possibility of home learning or distance learning, the learning outcomes have improved, but there are, of course, examples to the contrary. So I believe that now that there is more time in the summer, teachers will certainly be able to draw their own conclusions on how to organise learning in normal circumstances in the future, so that the maximum result can be achieved by combining contact learning and distance learning.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U293	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U294	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I'm asking about sick days, too. You answered my colleague's question that the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs were not convinced that compensating 100% of the first day would be an effective measure to reduce the spread of infection. As far as I know, the only specialist in this field on your committee is Riina Sikkut, my good ping-a-bang in normal times. He very much supports this proposal and believes that it is a very effective and necessary measure. In fact, most health professionals believe in the same way, in fact it is even surprised that in Estonia, a person who has been recognised as korona positive cannot stay at home in such a way that he does not lose his salary. We know of cases where a person has lost almost half of his salary because he has remained in the Corona. What is it that a coalition doesn't want to solve this simple thing? Is this some kind of weather-seeking bullshit or what, Erki?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U295	Thank you. I certainly did not say that this would not be an effective measure. I said that this measure would undoubtedly have a positive effect, i.e. it would undoubtedly contribute to slowing down the spread of the virus, and I said that there was no consensus. As you know very well, Evgeny, in coalitions we are still trying to move forward with consensus and, unfortunately, if we do not find consensus, that decision cannot be made. These searches will continue to find the best solutions. The budget also provides additional resources for municipalities, so I also encourage municipalities to consider this possibility of supporting their own people and, on the other hand, [I dare] also entrepreneurs who can also offer this opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U296	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U297	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I have a question about the cost of buying vaccines. An additional amount of EUR 24 million is foreseen for this purpose in the additional budget. The additional budget at first reading sounded in the speech, which was presented by the previous Minister for Finance, that it is a question of double money, because it is just like the basic budget. The previous Minister of Finance should best know this basic budget, he prepared it. I'm quoting, I have a verbatim in front of me. He said that a number of spending lines, which can be seen in this draft, have actually been paid out or paid in advance, such as asking for the same vaccine money again, is completely incomprehensible. My question is, how is it? Is your party partner Minister Kiik asking for double money to buy vaccines or were we misinformed here at first reading?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U298	Thank you. As far as I know, financial payments have not been made in this form. It is true that there was a reservation for the purchase of vaccines in sufficient quantities to vaccinate the entire Estonian population, but this money was provided for by the European REACT-EU facility, the implementation of which has been delayed a little. Secondly, the quantities ordered have also increased significantly. We know that with the quantity ordered in autumn, there are certain supply difficulties and new purchases have been sought from other producers to obtain additional doses that could be used in Estonia. Hence these additional costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U299	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U300	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I would like to find out a little bit about the EUR 300 million that the country receives as a result of this pension reform. I have heard the Minister's various arguments in various interviews, as well as the argument you put forward and the justification why it is not in this additional budget. In order for people to be able to understand the session online, I would like to ask you a question and I would like a specific answer. Where and when is this EUR 300 million planned to be reflected in the budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U301	Thank you. This revenue side of the supplementary budget is not because the government simply did not have this line in the supplementary draft budget. According to the law, the Riigikogu has no right to add such lines to it. Any additional revenue received by the State will be included in the budget for next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U302	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U303	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Honourable waitress! My question is based on the fact that the Commission, in which the majority of the sections of the government are members, ignored all the amendments proposed by the opposition. Please explain whether the proposals that were not taken into account overlap with those of the opposition are merely a coincidence or whether this is the official policy of the new government, that the opposition proposals are not taken into account and that it would be easier for the government to work if the opposition kept its mouth shut.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U304	Thank you. No, we did not have such a debate in the Commission. The main reason why the amendments were rejected was that their content did not meet the objectives of the additional budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U305	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U306	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! I, too, of course, am talking about sick days, and it seems a little cynical to me that your claim that [for the first day of sickness] should be paid to your employees by entrepreneurs who, we know, are already difficult and who we support with the other amounts of the additional budget and expect them to pay the sick days of their employees from this money. On the other hand, [you are suggesting] that the better and richer municipalities pay for the money on the one hand, we give them a grant to deal with the crisis, on the other hand, we say that the money should pay for their sick days. And then, in turn, the coalition brings it up as a favor, so you see, we made a good move, we pay 70% of the day's sick days for the second day. Where's the logic? Why, on the one hand, are we giving money and, on the other hand, are we telling us where to direct it? Why can't we find 1.3% of this total extra budget to offer this little?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U307	Thank you. Creating a good working environment is undoubtedly one of the main tasks of the employer, so that people want to work for the employer, work with joy and maximise their productivity. I think that businesses are taking all measures to give maximum incentives to their employees. One incentive measure is that, for example, sick days are compensated more than the minimum prescribed by law. Of course, other solutions could be found, but I do not think that compensation for all sick days should only be the responsibility of the State.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U308	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U309	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good performer! My question is based on the question of Mart Helme, which concerns the pedagogues. We know that even in our area of Ida-Viru County, the problem is that many schools are rich in children whose home language is Russian. There have also been repeated calls to the government to obtain additional resources to hire or pay teachers to assist students whose Estonian language is problematic. From this point of view: do you really think that this is not a coronal measure if these children are to study at home today and do not receive as much support as they need? Shouldn't we still be supporting these teachers?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U310	Thank you. I believe that all Estonian people, including the pedagogues, must be supported in this crisis. But I do not see how this language problem would have gotten worse by the fact that learning takes the form of distance learning. Teachers can still deal with their students in the same way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U311	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U312	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Here, a few questions ago, my colleague Sõerd asked how the vaccine money was. It seems to me that the mist continues, that yes, [the money] was booked in the budget. As far as the budget is concerned, if it is booked, the budget is downgraded, and this reservation was made out of government reserve. If the additional budget provides funds directly from the government reserve for the purchase of vaccines, part of this money being covered after the REACT-EU of the European Union, as was rightly said, it will release the amount to be taken into account in the government reserve. Perhaps then, in fact, the government now increased the buffer in its reserve by asking us for the extra money for vaccines, which is already actually provided for in the budget. I don't have a question, I just wanted to explain.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U313	Thank you for your explanation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U314	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U315	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I'm gonna ask you again, because it's getting worse and worse. You're talking about the sick days the same thing the government has been saying here. It sounds like we're talking about peacetime disputes, how big a person's own involvement should be, and that entrepreneurs can make an effort to improve their working environment. We have a pandemic, dear friends! It's a pandemic! It's not his fault that a person is sick, left in the Corona. But there is a general and overwhelming interest in all of us that, in that case, the person stays at home so that he does not receive a penalty of half his salary, which, of course, works as the opposite motivator. After all, we are talking about a limited time and a group of people with a certain diagnosis who have an overwhelming public interest in keeping them at home. How do you justify not being found in a few million of these additional budgets at the expense of the same relatively large reserve in order to do this and actually reduce the infection as a result?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U316	Thank you. Losing half the salary is definitely an exaggeration. That much will certainly not be lost because of these sick days. However, as I said earlier, there was no consensus on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U317	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U318	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Commission. My question concerns Amendment 6. Money is always low and needs are always great. This proposal says that the ERR may not be given more money for an information campaign. You said that this amendment was rejected. Do you have any idea what these additional information activities need to be provided to the ERR in addition to the core budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U319	Thank you. This extra ERR money is about free distribution. In drawing up this year's budget, it was considered that poor quality digital distribution, SD distribution, will end on 1 July, if I remember correctly. If this signal is stopped, a certain number of people will be deprived of the television image that's on the freeway. This additional money will extend the availability of this poor quality digital distribution until the end of this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U320	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U321	Thank you! Mr President of the Commission. Let me just say for a moment that there was just an argument that almost half of [income] could not be lost. Yes, it is. If you are in close contact twice in a row or once in close contact and then at home with the disease, you may lose almost half of your monthly salary. In the case of a salary of EUR 1000, it is EUR 400, and if this happens to both earners of the family, for example, there will still be a significant gap. In this context, I have a question. I actually understand from the answers you have given that you do not fundamentally dispute that this [first day of sickness compensation] could be an effective measure, but you say that consensus needs to be found. Now, honestly, tell me what the Reform Party has to do with this. Why are they not allowing this change in the supplementary budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U322	Thank you. If a person is in close contact twice, there really will be two zero days, which is about 10% of the working days. If you gave an example of EUR 1000, then [loss] is still EUR 100, not EUR 500. The next days are 70% covered, so that half the salary will definitely not go away. But really, the decline is, it can't be denied. I think the sick-day system could be a little different at all. But we didn't reach a consensus in the coalition, and so we're going to continue with the formula that is currently in force.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U323	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U324	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! My question is based on the hard question of a good colleague, Kalvi, which was about rural tourism. I did indeed withdraw my amendment because the government formed a working group dealing with the problem of rural tourism. I know that the Rural Tourism Association has also addressed the Commission directly, and I want to thank you for personally taking this matter to heart. Am I right to understand that, once the government has found a solution, whether through the Rural Promotion Foundation it is possible to solve this problem or through the state budget, the Commission is willing to continue to deal with this issue between second and third readings? Because the problem remains because rural tourism companies are predominantly seasonal and the restrictions of a few or three months at the beginning of the season have a very serious impact on their results throughout the year. Let me get this straight. This is still on and you're working on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U325	Thank you. Yes, this issue of seasonal rural tourism is still up, it is being dealt with. As far as I know today, the unemployment fund also discussed whether the measure they have developed could be adjusted in any way so that rural tourism companies could also ask for help. I very much hope that, before we reach a third reading with this budget, this issue of rural tourism will be resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U326	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U327	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! I'll continue on sick days. It has already been said that the amendments were not supported because they were not in line with the budget objectives. That doesn't apply to sick days. [This is] a clear crisis measure aimed at controlling the spread of infection. You also said nicely that the generous reimbursement of sick days will undoubtedly have a positive effect and, in answering the question of urgent tests, you stated that there was money in the reserve and that there would be no money left to solve the crisis. Well, I very much doubt whether the companies involved in personal protective equipment and in finding substitutes should put a greater burden on the control of the spread of infection. As regards the fisheries measure, you stated that it had to be reviewed. Now I am asking you that, if there is money, the measure is effective and there is no need to increase the burden on businesses, perhaps, in addition to the fisheries measure, we would also look at the decision on sick days?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U328	Thank you. Good Riina, I agree with you. I do not think that this obligation should be imposed on businesses, but if companies want to pay this [compensation] , I believe that so many companies are using this opportunity to motivate their employees, then we cannot prohibit it from doing so for them. If we now come back to the debate we had in the Commission on sick days, then the government's position was that the government attaches great importance to the sickness benefit measure. This scheme, which has been reimbursed since the second day of sickness, has had an impact and will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U329	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U330	[[Remote connection]] Thank you! Good Erki! In response to Reuben Kaalep, they said that the opposition's proposals were not disregarded for political reasons, but because they did not overlap with the objective of an additional budget. According to the explanatory memorandum, the purpose of the additional budget is to provide additional funding to the health care system to cope with the virus, to increase labour market services and support, to mitigate the losses caused by restrictions, etc., i.e. to reduce the impact of the [pandemic] directly affected sectors and to accelerate the recovery from the crisis. In that case, I have the question: how do you explain the omission of Amendment 2? This was done by the EKRE and by this we want to increase teachers' fees for additional tasks due to the coronal apandemia, for combining contact and distance learning. We're talking about a monthly salary.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U331	Thank you. The purpose of drawing up the supplementary budget is to focus strictly on the necessary, restrictive support measures and directly on the costs of the pandemic. The government will certainly assess the contribution of teachers, as well as the contribution of all other people who have had to bear an additional burden due to the situation over the past year due to additional tasks, restructurings or other reasons to ensure a functioning service for citizens. As an additional measure, a programme has been launched in cooperation with Tartu and Tallinn University to reduce the workload of teachers, for example, to include teachers' students in schools as teachers' assistants.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U332	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U333	Thank you. This time, I am not talking about sick days, although I consider the Commission's behaviour to be completely unfair to those people who are forced to work because they cannot stay on teleworking or who fall ill because their colleagues hide their illness in order not to lose money. I'm asking about the teachers. So far, the Minister of Education and Science, Liina Kersna, has repeatedly emphasised her sincere desire in both the Committee on Culture and in this Chamber of the Riigikogu that all teachers would receive an additional charge of about 30 million this year, the so-called 13th salary. The Minister was very convinced of the need for this measure and of the usefulness of this measure. As I understand from your presentation today, this proposal was rejected by the Government and rejected by the Commission. Does this mean that Minister Kersna has changed her position and agrees not to take this proposal into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U334	Thank you. First of all, I have to say that when a person is on a sick page, or a person is sick, you should definitely not work while you are on a sick page, but focus on your health, so that it can be restored to the maximum. Secondly, I believe that this crisis has affected us all and that everyone, not only the teachers, has earned the prize, but the representatives of all the agencies who have suffered these additional difficulties during this pandemic.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U335	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U336	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Last time, we dealt with a large cluster bill with which we committed small businesses, as well as other companies, to notify when the company is on the verge of bankruptcy. At the moment, I am looking at the fact that small businesses, which are still the majority, have the majority of the business, do not have any measures. What is the government's message? To go bankrupt and look after it, maybe you're starting business again, at this point you're not our priority?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U337	Thank you. That is certainly the wrong argument that there will be no subsidies for businesses. In support of entrepreneurship, there are over 40 million additional budgets, plus labour market measures of over 100 million. In addition, through the government reserve, the government has the possibility to increase the volume of these measures, i.e. 50 million circa for the labour market and even more on the second line.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U338	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U339	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. Good Erki! On the basis of the responses received, I ask how the additional budget for the health crisis has the means to increase environmental awareness.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U340	Thank you. This is probably because those institutions that have had to carry out these environmental trainings have not been able to do so in the context of a pandemic and their own revenues have decreased. In order for them to be able to continue to provide this service in the wake of the crisis, it makes sense to put the country on its shoulders.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U341	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U342	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good waitress! We know that the COVID-19 pandemic caused a significant reduction in passengers and freight transport on the waterways and in Estonian ports at the beginning of 2020. The situation affected all shipowners and port managers as service volumes and turnover decreased significantly. The Act amending the laws relating to the Supplementary Budget Act 2020 exempted all ships entering Estonian ports or ports from the payment of the water fee from 1 April of the previous year until 31 March of this year. With regard to the need to support the continuation of international maritime transport through Estonian ports and to motivate consignors to channel their trade flows through Estonian ports, the additional budget should find the means to extend this measure until at least 1 September and beyond [call for a 50% payment of water fee]. This would not be a cost, but a revival of the economy through which a tax would be paid to the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U343	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U344	Why do we not support proposals for improvement that support entrepreneurship in the same way and, on the other hand, bring that money back as taxes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U345	Thank you. The Estonian state will undoubtedly support shipping and this year there will be a 50% discount on these water charges. As far as I am aware, the Ministry of Economic Affairs has also consulted the sector further, and the sector considers it to be a sufficient support measure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U346	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U347	[[Remote connection]] Thanks again! I'll go back to where I was. [[We're breaking up.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U348	So, good Riina, you disappeared...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U349	... the damage involved and the costs directly caused by the pandemic, but the current sickness compensation scheme does not cover the costs of the pandemic for employers or for people who remain at home in close contact and therefore lose their income. If this is additional or new information for the chairman of the committee or the members of the committee, would it still be possible to move forward with the subject of more generous reimbursement of sick days? When a fisheries measure, I understand, is being reviewed, it means that there is some type of information that still causes the Commission to be prepared to make decisions made by the government [to change]. What is needed on sick days for the Commission to be prepared to review this decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U350	Thank you. It is true that the state budget does not cover all the costs incurred during sick days, and I do not think that it makes any sense to cover all the costs from the state budget either. However, in order for there to be some kind of change, structural changes to the compensation of sick days or other arrangements, political parties in the government coalition must reach a consensus. Only then will these changes take place.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U351	Good Commissioner, there are no more questions for you. I will open negotiations and the first word will be given to Indrek Saar. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U352	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As a representative of the opposition, I should not worry that the coalition will find a consensus, but listening to the presentation by the chairman of the committee, I am increasingly concerned that the coalition will find a consensus on what the Social Democrats have been essentially talking about since last autumn. And we haven't talked about it alone. Many health experts have talked about this, trade unions have consistently spoken about it, and employers have been talking more and more about it. It was only today that we met with the Estonian Association of Small Enterprises, who is equally concerned with us that there is one very important hole in this additional budget. This hole is, of course, compensation for sick days. First of all health arguments, they are presented countless. But once again, one can imagine that it is generally the opinion in Estonian working culture that if there is a small cold, a small cough, you still go to work without letting colleagues down, you go to work. And what's more is knowing that if you don't go to work, you stay home and take the sick list, you're gonna lose a lot in your income. If you have a lower income, that loss must be quite severe in terms of coping. Although, in terms of numbers, the greater the loss, the smaller the salary, the greater the risk that you will not be able to clear your bills at the end of the month. As we have repeatedly said here, it may mean for a person, for example, if he has had to be in isolation because of two consecutive close contacts at home, or because of a corona-positive test, in fact, a very significant loss, or more than 40% of a month's salary. I can imagine what must be done by a person who has an income of EUR 1000 and is missing EUR 400 at the end of the month. This is an additional pressure for a person to overlook his or her medical condition. We all know that at this moment, it will take revenge on itself, on his co-workers and, ultimately, on his employer. Not all people have the choice, not all have the opportunity to work remotely. As a result, they often do not have much to do to avoid infection, depending on themselves. There is also the argument that a person should have a responsibility, a motivation to avoid infection. Then we could say that let's look around this Chamber, let's think about our colleagues, let's look at the government of the Republic of Estonia there too, people are infected, but we do believe that these people have tried to do everything not to be infected, to avoid contacts. Still getting infected. So that's not an argument. Consider the people we put under pressure and the dilemmas that arise before people in this context. But let us also think about those employers who, as has been illustrated today, have had to spend five times more than usual in March this year to compensate for sick days. This could inevitably lead to a situation where, in an already difficult economic situation for many sectors, additional jobs are being shut down or wages are being reduced or the business is forced to stop altogether. I'm asking the manager for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U353	Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U354	This will inevitably start to eat and paralyze our business, our economy. When we talk about the cost to the state budget, it is only 1.3% of the additional budget in the context of the additional budget. After all, the additional budget generally includes the necessary costs, certainly these are the things that need to be done. But finding this 1.3%, or 8.5 million, is certainly not a financial problem in the context that the Development Monitoring Centre has calculated that Estonia has already lost at least 1.6 billion because of this health crisis. We know that by now, these numbers are definitely going to be bigger, they're going to grow all the time. And we see that our infected numbers continue to be very high, even though we hope to see the first signs that these numbers are still falling somewhat. But in order for these numbers to fall as quickly as possible, so that we do not have a third wave, or if it does, it would be with as little losses as possible, it would be necessary for the state to do everything in its power to prevent people from spreading coronavir through workplace monsters. The least we can do for this is to help convince the government coalition to find this necessary consensus on sick days. I very much hope that the government coalition will pull itself together and find this consensus within itself, and it will also be adopted by the social democrats, who would certainly like to be a constructive opposition on this issue. We very much want to support this additional budget if only this necessary change, such as the reimbursement of all sick days, would finally enter this additional budget. I therefore ask you to support the Socialist amendment on compensation for sick days and to think again about what is a higher cost for us: whether the disease is spreading or an additional 8.5 million out of the additional budget of the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U355	Mikhail Lotman next, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U356	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna start this short speech, not the way I planned. I was inspired by Mr Erki Savisaar and I would like to support the EKRE proposal on improving the situation of teachers. The Chairman of the Commission said that this crisis and distance learning have different effects on different teachers, and some may even be more chilly at that time. I do not know what data the honourable colleague has. I'm in constant contact with the faculty, I have teachers in my family, I teach in college myself. I know from my own experience that it takes about twice as long to prepare for a distance lecture as usual. A schoolteacher may not be that bad, but in any case it is a greater burden, much more individual work must be done, etc. So I say that the Isamaa Group supports the EKRE Group's proposal. But my main pain is about science. I would like to say that this pandemic crisis in society is also very painful for science and, in particular, for young scientists. And there are a number of bad crises that are currently collapsing. It's what the economy calls a black swan. At present, there is a risk that such a black swan will also arise in the funding of science. I would remind you that this year's ETA spends almost three times less money on new grants than it did last year. And it is particularly sad that, first, it coincides with other crises, and, second, because the past government, of which you were a member, allocated 56 million extra to science, and now finding this minimum of 9.2 million is completely, seems, by the government impossible. We have also heard several times today that the additional budget is intended to mitigate the effects of the crisis and that it does not deal with any other nonsense. Well, actually, that's not true. We know that over 100 million will go to the costs of the second pillar. The money will also go to the ERR to improve transmission, which has nothing to do with the pandemic. There are a number of such smaller things. I think we found out yesterday that creative people are getting extra support. I am not jealous of creative people, I am very happy for them, and I am very pleased that there was a minister in the government who stands up for people in his government. Unfortunately, there was no minister in the government who stands for the future of Estonian science. And that is why I appeal to the Riigikogu, especially to the coalition ambassadors... I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U357	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U358	...to save, please, the face of this government. I do not want this government to go down in history as a destroyer of Estonian science, at least a subversive. Moreover, we remember that the Prime Minister's candidate in his speech constantly stressed that this government was science-based. I understand, of course, that it is much easier to be science-based when there is no science. But still, I hope that such logic is misguided. It's not up to us to look for sources of cover. Look for it out of the 56 million that were allocated to science last year, or out of the 300 million that come from the pension pillar. Mr Savisaar kindly promised that it would go into next year's budget. But it can also be spent this year. And with this, we can alleviate a number of very big problems. So once again, I call for a vote in favour of this third amendment, or third and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U359	The next word will be Kersti Sarapuu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U360	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen and video viewers! The COVID-19 crisis has been going on for more than a year and I would like to congratulate the current government on behalf of the Centre Party Group, which has also decided to draw up an additional budget this year. It is good to note that all ministries, led by their minister, have been able to develop initial plans for support measures, which have already reached the Committee on Monetary Affairs and which have an impact on thousands of entrepreneurs and thus on hundreds of thousands of people. Here our ambassadors can pay attention to the flexibility of measures so that aid reaches all target groups on the principle of equal treatment. The additional budget will amount to nearly EUR 641 million. It is understood that a large part of this will be allocated to the Ministry of Social Affairs, which will allocate more than EUR 258 million. It includes, for example, wage subsidies and subsidies for hospitals and other health care institutions, as well as the costs of vaccination and testing, including the rehabilitation of scheduled patients. In the current crisis, the main challenge is for our hospitals. With an additional budget of more than EUR 150 million, health care will receive an additional EUR 52 million to cover the exceptional costs of hospitals, ambulances and other health care facilities. Our hospital staff is under an unprecedented strain, and it is therefore important that hospitals with a shortage of staff can continue to pay up to 1.5 times the remuneration of staff working in the COVID departments, with additional funding. The value of health professionals is essential in the current situation, and that is why we recognise all medical students and other health professionals who have come to the aid of hospitals in difficult times. After all, medical students have had to find time to study alongside the working shifts of exhausting corona departments. The current experience will certainly provide insight into how to further harmonise cooperation between higher education institutions and medical institutions in the future. It is also pleased that the infection rates are starting to move into a declining trend and that the vaccination rate has increased. This provides a basis for a moderate optimism in view of the future. The take-off position is quite favourable compared to the other countries of the European Union. Last year the economic downturn in Estonia was smaller than feared: 2.9%. The decrease was twice as modest as the average in the European Union. In this regard, it is fair to recall the courageous but also flexible decisions taken by the Government of Jüri Ratas. This week's spring economic forecast published by the Ministry of Finance states that domestic restrictions on economic activity and movement of people in Estonia were the least in comparison with the European Union as an average of 2020. In the early months of the crisis, companies benefited greatly from the spring pay compensation. Important support was given last year and local authorities will also receive this year. This time, municipalities will be supported by EUR 46 million. 30 million of this is investment aid and 16 million is a grant fund, broken down by basic amount and population. In Ida-Virumaa, where the negative impact on the local government's income has been higher, the grant per capita is estimated at 1.5 times. It is important to note that EUR 1 million is intended to improve the availability of internet access and digital learning materials in students' homes during the distance learning period in order to ensure equal access to education for students. It is also noteworthy that the support package for culture and sport has a capacity of 42 million, which helps to cover unavoidable costs for which no income could be earned due to restrictions. The additional budget provides for EUR 4 million to compensate for the loss of ticket revenue for commercial bus routes and the Ministry of the Interior will be able to step up the fight against the corona crisis and its spill-over effects through an additional EUR 1 million. The Centre Party Group supports the adoption of an additional budget and I would also recommend that all other ambassadors do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U361	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U362	[[Remote connection]] Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen. I hope you can hear me. The aim of the budget should primarily be to allocate the necessary resources to alleviate the damage to Estonian residents, businesses, society and the health care system due to the restrictions and the virus. The package of measures in the Draft Additional Budget includes funds for the payment of wage subsidies in sectors with reduced work volumes due to restrictions, for the payment of sickness benefits from the second day of illness, as well as additional funds for health care, special care and rehabilitation, for the payment of medicines and vaccination, crisis management and support measures for the tourism sector, cultural operators... [[The call's hacking, the long section's not clear.]] Businesses are making great efforts to prevent the circulation of COVID-19 in the work environment. It is clear that, despite the various aid measures, not all viral lesions in the workplace can be fully prevented without vaccination. The situation in manufacturing plants and workplaces where teleworking is not possible is particularly difficult. As a result, faster and more effective vaccination will help ensure that workers continue to have good health, that businesses continue to work and that the economy functions. If we can't vaccinate at the right rate right now, why don't we take rapid tests? The budget is only EUR 850000 for rapid tests, only for schools. There's only enough for schools for a few months. What about the companies? We know that the COVID-19 pandemic has caused a significant drop in passengers and freight transport on our waterways and in Estonian ports since the beginning of 2020. The situation has affected all shipowners and port authorities. The turnover, which depends on the volume of service, has decreased significantly. The Act amending the laws relating to the Supplementary Budget Act for 2020 exempted all ships entering Estonian ports or the raid of the port from the payment of the waterway charge from 1 April of the previous year until 31 March of this year. With regard to the need to support international maritime transport through Estonian ports and to motivate consignors to channel their trade flows through Estonian ports, resources should be found in the additional budget for extending this measure until at least 1 September and then 50% to pay the fee. It is not a cost, it is a recovery, it is a tax to be paid to the state budget. It is also necessary to condemn the Government's desire to start demanding that entrepreneurs in an already difficult situation should be required to pay compensation for the remaining workers who remain in isolation to remain in quarantine. This money should come from an additional national budget in order not to put companies in an even more difficult situation in a crisis. The compensation of quarantine days by the employer equally with the reimbursement of sick days leads to unpredictable costs for employers, which can lead to the insolvency of many companies. A compensation of EUR 117 million has also been included in the supplementary budget for those who suspended the second pillar pension payments. We know that last year's additional budget stopped state contributions to the second pension. The State used this money to cover other costs. It will also do so this year until 1 September. This shouldn't be a surprise to anyone. Today, a large number of pensioners have left the second pension pillar and 10% of income tax has also been paid out. The same will happen in September when more than 170000 members of the second pension pillar leave the second pension pillar. Income tax is also paid on this amount, and income tax is paid on the amounts of the State's compensation for the second pillar calculated in the supplementary budget. Why is it not clear that the amount of income tax is close to EUR 300 million? And finally. Nor does the additional budget provide for any possibility of reducing public expenditure. In a difficult economic situation, the state must be careful not to incur excessive costs without taking account of revenue. I believe that most public authorities would find ways of saving both economic costs and overheads. Let us do it! And to add that there are over 300 million unused funds in KredEx, the additional budget would also have been able to cover expenditure from the budget. To sum it up. The supplementary budget must be dealt with at a rapid pace, but it must not be done by secrecy and concealing public revenue. The Riigikogu must have greater ambition than the government. We must take clear steps to revitalise the economy and make efforts to ensure that Estonia emerges successfully from the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U363	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U364	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the additional budget, I am concerned about two issues. First of all, teachers' salaries. The government led by Kaja Kallas has been in power for two and a half months now. During this period, neither the Minister for Education nor the Prime Minister has been able to make it clear that the previous government's decision to freeze teachers' salaries for four years was a mistake and that it is important for the new government that teachers' salaries rise at least in one rhythm with the average wage in the country. No, the message that teachers are looking forward to is still not coming. Moreover, in the supplementary budget before us, too, the government has unfortunately forgotten the teachers. Distance training during the Coronary Epidemic has put a huge burden on teachers. So our fine teachers deserve a reward. Good opposition partners have tabled an amendment that would allow teachers to be paid the 13th salary. However, the Government Union has neither supported it nor proposed it, although the Minister of Education, Kersna, has repeatedly promised it to teachers. If Kaja Kallas or Liina Kersna still want to look teachers in the eye without shame, the government union itself must make a corresponding amendment for the third reading of the budget. If you don't get the whole thing done, make at least half of it by paying teachers a one-off bonus, such as 800 or 1000 euros. This is not a very high cost in terms of the additional budget, but this decision would show that the state values the work of teachers in difficult times other than beautiful words. The second part of my criticism concerns an issue that affects everyone in Estonia. This is reimbursement of sick days from day one, as a temporary crisis measure. Unfortunately, the sad numbers of the corona are steadily decreasing. The epidemic continues and work groups are one of the main areas of spread. Unfortunately, people go to work sick because having to hire a family every day is very painful for a family wallet. The Social Democrats have proposed to compensate the patients of the Corona during the epidemic and to compensate for the time they have spent at home since the first day of the epidemic. The experience of Finns from several countries, including our northern neighbours, shows that it keeps sick people at home and slows down the spread of the evil virus. This is a very effective measure. However, the Reform Party and the Centre Party, which are in power today, have not supported this very necessary step. I do not understand the tantrum of the parties in the government union, as I do not understand those EKRE politicians who have said that compensation for sick days from day one is a socialist initiative and measure. Oh, for heaven's sake! People who get sick and lose their wages expect the state to give them a hand. They do not care whether this money comes as a result of a left-wing or a right-wing initiative. Nor can this obligation be imposed on our employers, who themselves need public support, in the current economic crisis. It is now crucial to support any good proposal that helps to stop the spread of the virus and keeps our society as open as possible. Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition and of the opposition! Please support the reimbursement of sick days from day one! Estonia needs this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U365	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U366	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The question at first reading of this additional budget was why the macroeconomic forecast has not been presented with it. Forecasts will be completed as in previous years, and this week we were presented with a new forecast. Last year's economic downturn was significantly smaller than expected, thanks to less restrictive restrictions than in other countries, also due to the strength of our main trading partners' economies and also to the support measures of the state. For this year, the forecast will allow moderate growth and faster recovery from the second half of the year. The nominal deficit of the general government will also remain slightly lower than expected in the initial core budget, with additional budgetary implications. Last autumn's economic forecast was based on the assumption that the effects of the pandemic would begin to abate. In reality, however, the infection has been on the rise since November last year. This year's initial state budget was not taken into account by the exponential rise in infection and the new restrictions, which is why this additional budget had to be drawn up. The additional budget must allocate money to the health care system, support the labour market, mitigate the damage caused by restrictions. And the principle of drawing up an additional budget is, I repeat, that it must be short-term, directly linked to the crisis, rapid impactive and non-persistent expenditure. In particular, the additional budget will focus on labour market services, subsidies, mitigating the damage caused by restrictions in the sectors directly affected by these restrictions and the objective of speeding up exit from the crisis. Very few amendments were received from the Riigikogu. They were not supported by the Committee on Finance. Much of them were also not directly linked to the crisis and could not have a rapid impact on meeting the constraints caused by the crisis. For example, an amendment had been made to channel money into research into oil shale mine collapses and to develop abandoned unorganized career projects. The above mentioned additional funding was already available for increasing research grants, which has been decreasing since 2019. Well, I ask: why, then, in the last two budgets, had the amount of research grants fallen? Therefore, these amendments were not related to the main objectives of the additional budget. Yes, they may be necessary things, but they should have been in the basic budget by now. More about the amendments. It was both declarative and undisputed that the amendment was to include a paragraph in the text which would give the government the task of presenting budget savings. Such a task should have been set up by the time the basic budget was drawn up. Nor has the author of this proposal explained what the content of austerity measures is, which areas of government of which ministries would be affected by such a general and declarative vision of austerity. A large part of the amendments were covered by a government reserve fund. However, the additional budget allocates additional resources to the reserve fund for a specific purpose: to prevent the spread of the virus, to mitigate losses, to cover unforeseen costs. That's what you need to be prepared for. And here's the fact that, as far as I know, this was the state of government reserve. Can I have an extra three minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U367	Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U368	At the end of January, the situation was such that the reserve was EUR 33.9 million and something was transferred from last year. But by the end of January, EUR 40 million of commitments from the reserve were already covered, as far as I am aware, by the cost of purchasing vaccines, as well as other liabilities that had to be taken over. These were, for example, the costs of testing, the costs of purchasing a drug for the corona virus, as well as the additional costs of hospitals and ambulances. But further on, the effects of the crisis on different sectors of the economy have been very different. The areas of services, tourism and transport that have been affected are most affected, and, unfortunately, HoReCa is growing and is continuing to decline. However, before the additional budget, only EUR 9.7 million could be taken into account for the support measures in the tourism sector and EUR 9.7 million in this amount, which was pooled into one measure, was transferred from the previous year: the rest of the previous lease support measure and part of the government reserve. In fact, the core budget lines did not have such a cost for a public measure in the tourism sector. And now, with an additional budget, EUR 25 million will be allocated to the tourism sector as a separate support package and EUR 19 million will also be provided as a business support package. I will also say that during the procedure between the first and second readings of the supplementary budget, the preparation of the legislation for the implementation of the additional budget has also been carried out and that the Committee on Monetary Affairs has already received draft implementing acts. One example is the draft government regulation which allocates additional money to local authorities for investments. It should, of course, be mentioned here that this money should, of course, be used mainly to restore the economic situation after the situation in COVID-19, but above all as urgent investments to improve the ventilation of indoors owned by local authorities. And in a nutshell. The Reform Party Group will certainly support this additional budget, wants it to be dealt with quickly, so that the additional budget support measures can quickly reach the people and businesses affected by the restrictions and the COVID crisis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U369	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U370	Good vice chairman! Good for all the workmates who follow you mainly via the Internet, as well as those who are on the ground, because speaking on the ground is much more dignified than in the office! That's what I think personally. From this budget, I would think more and better, but to some extent we cannot learn from the situation that has developed and the individual mistakes made by the previous government, or from many of the ways in which anyone wants to say it. I'd still be touching small businesses. The vast majority of us still have small businesses and these wage measures that say you will receive this support from... If you still don't have entrepreneurship, if your little money goes to just pay taxes, just Estonian people are very tax-abiding people, then it's no wonder there's no pay. And then you don't get any support. We could see how it could still be. It is not possible for everyone to do teleworking; some sectors are not even given contactless work and e-commerce, because we have this law. He was approached by the Chancellor of Justice and also by the previous Prime Minister. Everyone said yes, yes, yes, we do, but now the government has changed. Now we have a second wave, there will be a third wave in France and Germany, but there will be no change. But one thing I'd like to put to you is to say away from this remote control, using the possibility that we've let the devil's sinkerskin out of the jar. What happened last spring was that when the companies applied for this wage measure through the unemployment fund, the banker gentlemen flew on all these employees to ask for additional security for your loan, because your company was not doing well because your company accepted this wage subsidy. This is actually the point of the question. As a Riigikogu, we want to come to the aid of people in our best knowledge, but it is used by the bank to demand additional guarantees. Now, that is extremely evil, and it should be repaired as a matter of urgency. There is no point in ruining people, and small businesses still expect some real solution. We realized nicely before the women's day that when the flower shops were closed, but the pet shops were left open, I advised all pet shop owners to sell flowers. I mean, we all have a cat knocking over a flower vase or a dog scraping out some tulip onions. The sale of flowers is an extremely adequate activity in a pet store. The Estonian person has been smart to come out of the situation. And I expect the Riigikogu to be just as clever, and he will still find a solution for the people of Estonia, how, before this third wave, to some extent, maybe for a moment, a beak to be lifted so that he can at least pay himself a minimum wage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U371	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U372	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I, like my penguin, Jaak Juske, am talking about two issues that are worrying about the extra budget on our table. The first topic is the teachers' and teachers' premium. The Chairman of the Monetary Commission said that there are many other target groups that need support. I'm sure it is, and I'm sure I'd like to help as many people as possible. But, as it sounded here today, we actually support quite a number of target groups in quite a number of areas with an additional budget and other national measures. Education is also an area that needs additional support and people working in education need additional support. The Chairman of the Monetary Commission mentioned that adapting to the new circumstances is difficult. Yeah, it's complicated. But working for a year in these circumstances is much more difficult. Apparently, many teachers do not adapt. According to one member of the Riigikogu, for quite a number of teachers, distance learning is a pleasant and comfortable way of working. I don't know who he's talking to. In my circle of acquaintance, all the teachers say that it is far from comfortable and comfortable when it comes to dealing with children from a distance. Teachers have made efforts, they have done more than they are required to do. Clearly, they have done extra work and night work. We could also give them additional budget recognition by the Riigikogu. The Minister of Education and Science also agrees, at least until recently. However, by looking at the vote in the Commission and at Parliament's thinking, this additional remuneration is a dream. I don't know if the promised raise will be the dream. I'll see you soon. But in any case, I call on this remote control to support the opposition partner's proposal and to allocate additional resources to complement teachers. The second issue, which is extremely important to me as a Social Democrat, is the additional reimbursement of sick days. I would like to remind you that the Socialist proposal is to compensate 100% and from the first day of illness in the case of corona. It was very strange to hear today when the same proposal was put together with all the other proposals and said that let us look at the budget for next year. Well, we have nothing here to look at next year's budget. Additional compensation for sick days is a measure that needs to be decided now, today and now. As the coalition ambassadors repeat the mantra to support these people in the municipalities, let the employers support them. Why are we putting this burden on additional municipalities? Why do we put this burden on employers? It has already been said here today that businesses are also in favour of this measure, and it has been said that trade unions are in favour of this measure. Many people, I believe, are in favour of this measure. There are also different numbers here how much it costs a person to stay home when he's sick. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U373	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U374	Thank you. Let us imagine that you are an employee in a large collective who cannot stay in teleworking, who stays at home several times in close contact, because colleagues get sick. If you are finally ill and if your partner, who has already been in close contact several times, stays at home in close contact with you and eventually gets sick, for example, your child becomes ill and once again the whole family stays at home in close contact. Any such circumstance implies the loss of more than 30% of income, regardless of income. But, of course, those who already have an income, it hurts the hardest. It's a very hard hit on them. We need to think about people who have no choice whether to get sick or not. And what kind of responsibility is that here?! What are these people responsible for? They cannot stay in teleworking; they cannot choose their colleagues; they cannot argue with their employers who, at any cost, try to hide close contacts in order not to shut down the company. Where's the coalition logic? They're gonna hang a warrant in their chest, and they're gonna say, look, we're gonna pay 70% of the second day for everybody. We're so proud of that. It's not the kind of thing you put a warrant in your chest for. We could all put it in the Order's chest if we did it from day one and 100%. And I do not believe that this target group can be said as for teachers: there are other target groups that need to be supported. No, it's not! This is our entire Estonian people, they are all people who work for us and they deserve the attention of the Riigikogu and need this support. I therefore call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to support the Social Democrats' proposal to compensate for 100% of the loss of earnings from the first day for those who have left their homes in connection with COVID. Consider this: it is just 1.3% of the additional budget. It's nothing compared to the benefit that we can support people so that they can stay home and calmly cure this terrible disease, and we can all get over it one day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U375	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U376	[[Remote connection]] Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I think that, in our hearts, we all want us not to discuss this extra budget right now. And as a result, we might have had a chance. As early as October, when the second wave began, the Social Democrats immediately said that compensation for sick days was a measure that could prevent the explosion, as we have today. This was when the first cases of illness occurred in Ida-Virumaa and it was transferred across Estonia through large work groups. As usual, but especially in times of crisis, there are two very important factors in managing the crisis and making decisions: that these decisions are made in the right time. It's a good thing the government has finally done half the work, but time is still very, very wrong. The Social Democrats have proposed to pay 100% sickness benefit from the first day on this additional budget. Dear friends, this is a very effective measure. I have asked both the ministers and the members of the Riigikogu who did not support this idea: why? Don't you think that's fair? Do you think it's very expensive? Or is it inefficient to stop the spread of the virus? To tell you the truth, there's no answer to any of these questions. And it seems that the current government has also taken such a position that if someone in the opposition makes an amendment, it cannot be supported, which is because the virus is spreading. So, good friends, pull your balls together tonight! Amendment 1, reimbursement of sick days and compensation of people in contact at home from day one at 100% is the right measure to ensure that we have summer. And it should also be taken into account that, as we have heard, the ugly third wave is already running around Europe. We should remember this and know that this is one measure that is effective and helps to overcome the disease. So Amendment 1 - we are all in favour! Then my heart will be pleased, and I can support this budget. There are undoubtedly many right measures in this very ugly disease situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U377	Lauri West Forest, please! Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U378	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk about real life in Järvamaa and the extra budget, using examples, how we can support the Estonian people, help them. Yeah, help, not look away from him. We are talking about compensation for sick days, about the fact that today a person must stay home either because of isolation or because he or she is ill, and he or she must pay for the first day of his or her stay at home. And while he's at home, he gets 30% less than his salary. A simple example: in the case of a €1000 salary, you will basically pay €50 for the 50 euros you lose and plus another €150 for two weeks when you are in isolation at home. 200 euros is less than 1000 euros, 800 is your salary. Okay, maybe there's something we can do, but it's really hard, I'll tell you. Now for examples of how real life is. A person from Järvamaa, a woman, works in a large collective. He went to work, was assigned to isolation, was at home for two weeks. Spent two weeks at home, came back to work. One day of work, isolation was assigned, again two weeks at home. The calculation of how it affected his salary, his income, is as follows. Two times 50 euros, that's 100 euros. His salary there was about 1000 euros. Then 100 euros down, plus 150 plus 150 euros for both two weeks, a total of 300 euros. Thus, instead of EUR 1000, a person received EUR 600. Another example. A woman, a single mother, two children, very good, hard-working. Stayed in the corona virus, stayed home. He was home for three weeks. Three weeks! His salary is about 1200 euros and he first lost 50 euros. In his case, the calculation is more complex in the sense that his average income last year, of which 30% should be less, was not what he now receives but, by chance, he had been made redundant in the past. And he didn't get what his salary would be last year, 1,000 euros was on average EUR 1 000, but basically half as a unemployment benefit, 500 euros. This means that this person ultimately received EUR 580 out of his 1200-euro salary. 580 euros! He lost more than half his salary. And he went to work not because he was healthy and could go to work, but simply because he couldn't sit at home anymore. It was just not possible to feed the family, manage, pay utilities, buy food. He went to work. He goes to work for two days in a row, and then he has to rest. Two days! You just can't physically make it, it's like this. This is real life. Real life is that if you really get a salary of 1000 euros or 800 euros, you have to give up 200 euros or 150 euros. But this is a very important income for some people. Some people are the only supporter of the family, the feeder. And these are actually the reasons why some people ultimately cannot fulfill the request that the Prime Minister, which we have all tried to make: be good, if you are ill, stay home, if you are destined for isolation, be good, stay home. They can't do that. Not that they don't want to do it, but they can't do it. And now let's think that if the current government, the Prime Minister and other ministers have said that a person must retain some responsibility for himself, then I would ask: how can a person be held responsible if someone in his collective works sick and infects him or simply is near him without his knowledge? He's gonna be isolated, he's gonna lose his income. How is that man's own responsibility? How can we tell the people of Estonia in such a way that you are responsible, you must have some responsibility for this? I can't! It's the responsibility of the state, it's the responsibility of society. If we lose a certain proportion of our people's income so that we can overcome this virus so that we can overcome this crisis, then as a society, we must not leave them alone, not to notice. As a society, we must ensure that their livelihood is maintained. It is the duty of the state, it is the duty of the government, it is the duty of the Riigikogu. And that's actually the point of the country. Why do we need this country if we all leave people to bear and deal with this austerity policy that is currently being dealt with here at the state budget? Indeed, only 1.6% would receive 100% reimbursement of sick days from the first day from this additional budget. Eight and a half million of those hundreds of millions. But somehow it's still the situation that we're counting on the money and on those who suffer the most, we're saving the money the most. Most of all, those who suffer! I know that those with a high salary may not feel it in this Riigikogu, maybe the government will not feel it. It doesn't matter if you lose 30% or 40%. You're doing really well, you can pay your communal expenses, you can buy your food, and you'll probably be left with a lot of money to even have fun. But those people who need help should help them. So perhaps my request and appeal to you, honourable members of the Riigikogu, especially the ambassadors of the Centre Party and Reform Party, who are talking about responsibility, is: not only do ordinary people have to have their own responsibilities, but also the state and you. My proposal is to support the Socialist proposal to compensate sickness days from day one and 100%. It's a crisis measure. This would only apply to this virus, and if you have to stay home either sick or have been assigned close contact. There's no way to call it sowing money. This is the most basic thing a country can do for its people: to take care of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U379	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, It is a good thing that Lauri Läänemets did such a mathematics lesson here so that we can really understand, using real examples, what the effect is if, for example, a person stays home once or twice a month in close contact: what is the loss of income that he then bears? But now the budget's objective is that the damage caused by the restrictions will be compensated and the costs of the pandemic will be covered. It makes perfect sense, it's very right. The Social Democrats support the fast-track procedure and that is why the Group has only proposed one additional budget amendment. We're constructive. We take into account that there are a great many things in the supplementary budget that are necessary for the rapid implementation of the budget for the livelihood of people and businesses. And I would stress that our proposal is a measure to limit the spread of infection. In order to compensate for 100% of the disease days for the corona-positive and close contacts on the first day, the focus is very clear and focused on solving the crisis. It is aimed at ensuring that we can still return to normal life as much as possible after the restrictions have been relaxed. Such a clear focus I recommend to others. And now I will respond briefly to everything that has been heard today and in previous debates. The fact that the company can itself compensate for the first days of illness and be more generous when the law provides for the same company, often a small company that already bears the costs of personal protective equipment, who finds a substitute for the sick, pays the substitute a fee or the costs of recruiting it and at the same time also pays the costs of a sick person's sheet or quarantine sheet. The second proposal is that the local authority may compensate for this. Yes, of course, it is theoretically possible, but I find it very cynical to refer to a grant number that has been included in the supplementary budget and to recommend that local authorities pay a teacher's premium, invest in improving the ventilation of schools, and that the same support would also pay sickness benefits to the residents of their municipality. In fact, it is one of the relatively scarce support, but everyone goes behind the fact that the local government can decide with this money to do all the good that the government does not want to do from the extra budget. There is also a pretext that an agreement between the social partners is needed in order to reward sickness days more generously. To be honest, I would like to see this commitment to the social partnership also in other social reforms. This is certainly right, but both small businesses and trade unions have already expressed their support for the revision of the current compensation scheme for sick days. Much more is said about man's own responsibility. I assure you, all people are sick and all people must remain isolated. No one can take this responsibility away from them, and that is what we expect or what we want people to do. Whether or not someone is putting their affairs at risk, I disagree with the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and with the government. When we are talking about resolving the crisis, controlling the spread of infection, I think that the responsibility, in the form of isolation, could be the one that remains with the human being. But the government reserve can compensate for sick days. We also heard that the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs confirmed that more generous compensation for sick days is a positive measure. It also confirmed that the reserve has the means to make the necessary changes for the third wave, for example. It confirmed that it is not advisable to increase the burden on operators, but of course it is desirable to limit the spread of the infection. I assure the chairman of the committee that it is possible for the Committee on Monetary Affairs to make changes to the supplementary budget, including a more generous reimbursement of sick days. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U380	Three extra minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U381	Okay, if we really only talk about one- or two-month emergency situations, then in the crisis, everyone has to make an effort, everyone has to pull themselves together, we will survive this month. But we've had a year, and there's no end to it. And let us be honest, if we want to relax the restrictions and look towards autumn, the only thing that allows us to return to normal life is a very decent track and track: that all people with symptoms go to test, that all people with positive test results and close contacts remain isolated at home, that no one has an interest in avoiding testing or hiding infection or not reporting themselves in close contact. If we can't secure it, the spread of the infection will go uncontrolled. We have a very targeted, well-focused, effective measure that will ensure that it is people in larger groups and those with lower wages who can carry out an important task for all of us and remain isolated. I really ask to support this most important amendment, which is consistent with the objective of the additional budget, Amendment 1. The most important thing is still being put first, and I totally agree with that. So, ladies and gentlemen, please support this most important Amendment 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U382	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U383	[[Remote connection]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The additional budget, of course, is one of the most important moments and levers in managing state life. And its adoption, especially in today's situation, where we are very busy with the corona apandemia, is essential. However, we are seeing very negative moments in this process. The Prime Minister has constantly emphasised and called on the opposition to think and act together, but unfortunately we must once again admit that these are actually words, empty words. None of the opposition's proposals have been taken seriously; they have simply been rejected with a numb fish face. And the most important reasons for rejection and failure to take account of them are also set out. The first, most importantly of these, is that the purpose of the additional budget is to focus strictly on the necessary, restrictive support measures and directly on the costs of the pandemic. And, of course, there is always a pretext for lack of money and lack of money in the government reserve fund, etc. But that's not true. We all know that because of the pension reform, EUR 300 million will be released, which the government is actually hiding on the revenue side of the budget for some reason. This is completely incomprehensible, completely unreasonable, and I would also say that, looking at today's situation, it is even malicious. The opposition has tabled a number of amendments to the additional budget, and there has been a great deal of talk here today. All political parties have highlighted these amendments, the advantages and disadvantages of the entire additional budget. That's why I'm not gonna bring them out separately. I am not going to mention here in my speech the amendments of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, which, just like all other opposition parties, are very substantive and very well founded. And in order not to waste our time together for a very long time here, I call on the coalition, the ambassadors of the Reform Party and the Central Party: show the statesmanship! Show that you really do not only want to cooperate with the opposition in words, but also in action. Because there is, in fact, a cover for all these amendments. I call for all amendments by the opposition to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U384	There are no further requests to speak. I will conclude the negotiations and we can move on to the amendments. We have received ten amendments and are going to go with them one by one. The first amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the lead committee has decided not to do so. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U385	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment and also to support it, because it is a very good amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U386	Got it. The Social Democratic Party Group is asking for a vote on this. Before we go to the vote, we'll make a hall call. Before going to the vote, Erki Savisaar has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U387	Thank you, Mr President. One of the ambassadors here has reported that the computer threw away the image and asks if there's a chance to give him a little extra time to get the computer back online.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U388	Yeah, well, I would have reminded you for a second before going to the vote, anyway, how we're gonna be this time. In accordance with the procedure laid down in the Bureau for an electronic sitting, if there is a person in a political group who is reluctant to have an electronic voting system, he should report this to his fellow political party who is in the Chamber, and this political groupmate will signal a failure before the vote is declared to have ended with the hammer knock. In that case, I shall suspend the vote and we shall do this procedure in such a way that we can also count the votes by e-mail. But let's wait, I don't know, taking a two-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U389	Now, here's the thing. Break's over. I'd like to check in first to see if everyone can sign up for presence. And then we'll also see if the person who had the problem has gotten in touch. Let's do a presence check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U390	93 people registered to be present, 8 missing. And the person who didn't get in touch is also among those who are missing, so there's no connection. We should now proceed by e-mail to announce the vote, and before I announce the result of the vote, people will also be able to send their voice by e-mail. They should then first specify the number of the draft and, in this case, the number of the proposed amendment and whether they are in favour, against or impartial. This should be done within three minutes of the announcement of the vote. And we also need to make a vote counting committee from each political group, with one member's representative, who will count our e-mails. So I would like to ask one person from each political group to be sent here to the Bureau. So let's start voting. I shall put to the vote the first 357 amendments tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which have not been supported by the lead committee. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U391	Has there been a signal from the political groups that no one was able to vote? No protests have come, even those who were previously in trouble have been able to vote. So I can announce the result of the vote: 30 were in favour of the proposal, 60 were against. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 2: This has been presented by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party and the position of the commission is not taken into account. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U392	Thank you. The Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party is asking for this amendment to be put to the vote. This concerns the payment of a bonus to teachers due to additional tasks due to the corona. I ask everyone to support this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U393	I shall put to the vote Amendment 2 tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and decided not to be taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U394	I don't see any cry for help. So I will announce the result of the vote. There are 37 delegates in favour of the proposal, 57 against. The proposal was not supported. We go to Amendment 3. Its author is the Group of the Fatherland, and the position of the commission is to ignore it. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U395	Thank you. I would ask you to support this amendment in support of Estonian science.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U396	I shall put to the vote Amendment 3, tabled by the Isamaa Group. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U397	The amendment was supported by 36 MPs, against 59. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 4, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U398	On behalf of the Group, I call for this amendment to be voted on and, at the same time, I call for everyone to support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U399	I shall put to the vote Amendment 4, tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U400	Amendment 4 was supported by 19 delegates, with 70 against. The proposal was not supported. We go to Amendment 5. Its author is the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, and the position of the commission is to ignore it. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U401	On behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, I ask that this amendment be put to the vote and once again I ask everyone to support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U402	I shall put to the vote Amendment 5 tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U403	19 members supported the proposal, 72 opposed the proposal. The proposal was not supported. Let us move on to Amendment 6. Its author is also the faction of the Estonian Conservative People's Party and the commission has ignored it. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U404	Thank you. The Estonian Conservative People's Party is asking for this amendment to be voted on. This is a proposal to withdraw the grant of 200000 for notification to the ERR, as these amounts are already included in the budget. And I ask everyone to support it!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U405	I shall put to the vote Amendment 6, tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U406	There are 18 delegates in favour of the proposal, 75 against. The proposal was not supported. Let us move on to Amendment 7, for example. Its author is the Group of the Fatherland, and the position of the commission is to ignore it. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U407	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote for this amendment supporting Estonian sport and also to support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U408	I shall put to the vote Amendment 7, tabled by the Isamaa Group. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U409	The proposal was supported by 35 delegates, with 57 votes against, with 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 8, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, which has not been taken into account by the commission. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U410	I would like to ask for this amendment, which is intended for further acquisition of rapid tests, to be voted and, of course, to be supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U411	Let's get to the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 8, tabled by the Isamaa Group. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U412	37 members are in favour of the proposal, 58 are against the proposal. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 9, which is also tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, which has not been taken into account by the commission. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U413	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote and support this amendment supporting the Estonian maritime sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U414	I shall put to the vote Amendment 9, tabled by the Isamaa Group. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U415	The proposal was supported by 30 delegates, 58 against. The proposal was not supported. Amendment No 10, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, position of the commission: not to be taken into account. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U416	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote and, of course, to support this amendment, which will stop the over-scaling and favours sensible austerity.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U417	If that's what you want, we'll put it to the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 10, tabled by the Isamaa Group. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U418	The proposal was supported by 28 delegates, with 67 against. The proposal was not supported. With this, we have revised the amendments on the additional budget. The second reading has also been completed. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 9 April at 12 noon.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U419	Let's move on to our agenda. The next item is the second reading of the draft Act 284 on the amendment of the Maritime Safety Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. I call Annely Akkermann, member of the Economic Commission, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U420	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I apologise in advance that the introduction of my speech is not going to be very short, because the materials are voluminous. The draft law amending the Maritime Safety Act and related amendments to other laws was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 9 November last year. The Riigikogu took the draft 284 into procedure on 10 November. On 16 November, Kalev Kallo was appointed rapporteur by decision of the Committee on Economic Affairs. On 17 November Mikhail Korb was appointed rapporteur, and on 16 February including 16 February the draft rapporteur was appointed rapporteur. The draft amends four laws. These are the Maritime Safety Act, the Port Act, the Commercial Seafaring Act and the State Tax Act. The bill adds new definitions to the above-listed laws, waives eight licence requirements and replaces the licence in two cases by an economic activity notification. No new authorisation requirements will be added. The security requirements for ships sailing on domestic voyages and for ports serving domestic ferry routes shall be mitigated. This concerns a total of about 30 ships. With effect from 1 January 2022, the quality system of the seafarers' medical examiner shall comply with the requirements of the International STCW Convention. This Convention deals with the grounds for training, certification and watchkeeping of seafarers. From now on, the health care provider will resolve disputes about the results of the medical examination of seafarers. So far, the appeal could be filed with the Health Board. The draft establishes new and expands existing registers. These are the seafarers' register, the hydrographic information system and the navigator database. The draft provides for recognition of certificates issued by a Member State of the European Union or a Contracting Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, as well as by a radio operator. The Transport Authority is designated as the competent authority and can begin to issue certificates to shipowners in accordance with international conventions: the Hong Kong Convention on the Safe Recycling of Ships, the Nairobi Convention on the Removal of Ship wrecks, which was just under discussion in this hall, and the Ballast Water Convention on Ballast Water and Sludge Management. The draft specifies which ships are exempted from mandatory pilotage and takes into account the criteria for issuing certificates of competency for sea lots and senior maritime lots. Upon the entry into force of the draft, the port waters will be appointed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications instead of the Government of the Republic. The requirement of certification by the Port Security Chief Transport Board is waived and the regular security inspection of port facilities is carried out every five years instead of the current year. The draft will specify the amounts of the state fees and determine the state fees for the processing of additional requests for documents. The first reading took place in this Chamber on 25 November last year. No proposals were received from the Riigikogu on the draft by the deadline for the submission of amendments, 9 December. On 26 November, the Commission informed the Estonian Shipowners' Association in the Riigikogu, the Independent Trade Union of Estonian Seafarers, the Estonian Maritime Academy of TTÜ, the Estonian Ship Managers' Association, the Association of Estonian Small Harbours, the Logistics and Transit Association, the Estonian Loots of AS, the Estonian Ports Association, the Estonian Historical Ship Association, the Estonian Remote Fishing Association and the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Our opinions and proposals were sent to the Commission by the Logistics and Transit Association, the Estonian Ports Association, the Estonian Shipowners' Association and the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. I will be the first to introduce the Logistics and Transit Association to the Economic Commission. In fact, the draft abolishes the obligation to authorise ship-agenting companies. In the opinion of the Logistics and Transit Association, this is not right, rather the contrary, the authorisation should be tightened up. The work of the ship's agent is to provide information related to the visit to the ship in an electronic marine information system operated by the Transport Board, but the fees paid by shipowners to ports for piloting and towing, and so on are the ship's agenting staff. The amount paid to the ship's agent for the port visits of large ships may amount to hundreds of thousands of euros, which the ship-owner pays in advance. It is difficult for foreign shipowners, in particular, to check the background of companies engaged in agency activities. This should therefore be done by the State through an authorisation obligation. In the view of the Logistics and Transit Association, a guarantee of EUR 100 000 should be imposed on the ship's agent. In its address, the Estonian Ports Association proposed to amend the Maritime Safety Act or the Commercial Seafaring Act in such a way that in Estonian territorial waters outside ports, the shipowner or charterer should not provide cargo services from his ship to another ship owner or charterer. These are STS, or ship-to-ship operations, which have been discussed recently in the press. It was also sought to add that the loading service is operated by the port managing body within or outside the port waters. It is therefore essentially intended to prohibit ship-to-ship cargoing at sea on its own initiative and not as a port service. Under the proposal, the port authority could also organise cargo operations outside the port and the port waters. The Logistics and Transit Association addressed the Economic Commission with another letter. Firstly, amendments to the Maritime Safety Act are requested so that the driving test can also be carried out in English. The master of a ship flying the flag of Estonia may also be a citizen of the European Union or of the European Economic Area. Therefore, on the basis of the principle of equal treatment, they should be allowed to take the driving test in English. This has long been the case in many countries. Secondly, it was proposed to exempt all recreational craft and vessels of less than 500 gross tonnage or less than 90 metres from pilotage. The Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry sent a letter of support to the Economic Commission, which supports the proposal of the Estonian Shipowners' Association and the Logistics and Transit Association to allow a driving test to be passed in English. The letter also stated that it is possible to take a driving test in several languages in Finland and Sweden, and in Riga harbour you can get a driving licence without speaking Latvian. The Estonian Shipowners' Association also once again approached the Economic Commission with a request to allow a driving test in English. It is considered that the restriction of the Estonian language is contrary to the policy of improving the competitiveness of Estonian shipping, which requires international shipping and openness. The Transport Board has been calling international ships under the Estonian flag for more than half a year, which is undoubtedly necessary for translating documents into English and advising and serving shipowners in English. In this context, the requirement that a driving test be carried out in Estonian is definitely not valid. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the issue of ship authorisation at a meeting held on 22 March, in which Marek Rauk, Director of Maritime and Maritime Service of the Transport Board, and Raul Tell, Head of the Department of Certification of Seafarers, participated, apart from the Deputy Secretary-General Ahti King of Transport at the Ministry of Economic and Communications. Agne Ojassaar, Legal Adviser to the Health Board, Head of Health Network of the Health System Development Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Heli Paluste, and Head Specialist of the same department, Mare Toompuu, were also present. The representatives of the Estonian Shipowners' Association were Indra Kaunis and Peeter Ojasaar, the Estonian pilot was represented by Peeter Sepp, and the Logistics and Transit Association was represented by Ants Ratas and Andres Valger. The aim of the meeting was to listen to the most acute questions raised during the engagement process regarding the proposals to enable you to hope to pass the driving test in English, in addition to the Estonian language, as well as the proposal to tighten the requirements for companies involved in ship-agenting. In addition, the issue was discussed in relation to the procedure for contesting the so-called seafarers' health inspection decision, which was also commented on by specialists from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications who participated in the hearing. The views of market participants were heard. The decisions were taken at the next meeting on 23 March. It was agreed by consensus that the proposals received from market participants in the draft procedure would not be formulated as amendments to this draft, as an analysis of their effects and the involvement of all parties would require additional time and resources and would extend much of the procedure for the draft. Namely, Estonian Loots serves, offers pilotage service and their estimate is that up to two thirds of the pilotage service is provided on ships that regularly visit Estonian ports and if the captains and navigators were able to take the pilotage test, they would not need the pilot and this would have a significant impact on the activities of Estonian Lootsi. And the second reason was that these guarantees for EUR 100000 of ship-agenting companies are unnegotiated with market participants and may be too high for smaller market participants. It was therefore decided to take time and ask the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to prepare an impact analysis by 1 September of this year, if a driving test could be expected to be taken in English. And just as by 1 September, an analysis of the need for mandatory liability insurance for ship agents was requested and assessed in the context of the rest of the world. The reason it's being discussed is still the possibility of cheating. When the Transport Board looks at ship-agenting obligations from the point of view that the ship agent provides information about the movements of ships into their marine information system, the ship agent takes as a prepayment from ships the financial obligations that it carries out in front of Estonian companies, which are ports and state. These are water charges and different taxes. The medical inspection of seafarers led to a number of discussions. As regards the procedure for challenging the medical examination of seafarers, the representatives of the initiator confirmed that the existing wording is the compromise proposed jointly by the two ministries. The Commission's definition of the person entitled to challenge remained unclear. Following the discussion, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications was asked by 5 April 2021 to revise the wording of § 262 and, if necessary, to submit a further proposal for clarification. On 17 March, a letter from Minister for Economic Affairs Taavi Asa to amend and supplement draft 284 arrived at the Committee on Economic Affairs. It was sent to amend the amendments tabled and there were 8 points and 85 points on 37 pages, a large part of which was formulated during the preparation of the draft second reading following a discussion between the authors of the draft and the representatives of the lead committee. Some of the changes initially made to the draft were cancelled and added or expanded. The proposals presented by the Ministry of Economic Affairs have been combined into 29 Commission amendments by Commission official Piia Schults, and these amendments are now presented before you. All opinions and proposals received can be consulted on the draft map. At its meeting on 23 March, the Committee on Economic Affairs continued to send the draft discussion to second reading. During the consultation, a consensus was reached that the proposals received from market participants in the context of this draft procedure would not be taken into account. The Ministry of Economic Affairs had also sent its opinion not to take them into account. The large volume of proposals submitted to the Commission meeting was further discussed. At this first Commission meeting, which discussed sending the draft to first reading, Kristen Michal asked the introductions of the draft whether the draft was also in agreement with market participants. Katrin Andre replied that the draft had passed through the coordination system and its content had also been negotiated with business organisations. However, since these changes are so substantial, the Commission took procedural decisions at the hearing. This led to a longer discussion on whether it would be appropriate to conclude the second reading of the draft at the level of such amendments, given the fact that in the meantime there is a week without a meeting if market participants could read the amendments voted on by the Commission. However, in the course of the debate it was agreed that the most correct solution would be to interrupt the second reading of the draft, so that all interested parties could then have access to the formal text of the draft. Since, according to the initiator's representatives, this maritime package is a time-critical draft, the Commission considered it justified to ask the Bureau to set a shorter deadline for the submission of amendments. And since the wording of some of the amendments needed to be supplemented and considered, the committee decided to continue the discussion after the Riigikogu week. At its meeting on 5 April, the Committee on Economic Affairs continued to discuss amendments to the draft with representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The wording of the points in the two amendments was reviewed, mainly concerning the dates of entry into force. The procedural decisions of the commission shall be as follows: The Committee on Economic Affairs proposed to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading by today, 7 April and to interrupt the second reading of the draft. And since the proposed deadline for the entry into force of the draft law is 1 June, it was proposed to set the deadline for amendments at 5 working days, i.e. 14 April, at 5.15 p.m. All the decisions were consensual. This is a brief summary of this long story. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U421	Thank you. There are questions for the waitress. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U422	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I am now asking, for the sake of clarity, whether there can no longer be such bullshit as is at this point, that two foreign ships simply decide that they are loaded on the sea, moving things from one ship to another, and the Estonian state has no supervision over it and is not paid for it. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U423	The Estonian state has supervision over this and there are procedures for ships wishing to ship from one ship to another to inform the Police and Border Guard Board and the Environmental Board. To this end, the relevant arrangements are in place; this activity is not illegal in nature. But it can be committed illegally. And at present, the coordination circle is re-established with a regulation prohibiting ship-to-ship cargoes in certain areas of nature conservation importance. This narrows down the areas where cargoes can be carried from ship to ship.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U424	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U425	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Thank you for this presentation. I have a brief point for clarification. Has this draft also been negotiated with the employees, the Estonian Seamen's Independent Trade Union, and if so, what was their position?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U426	Yes, the Committee on Economic Affairs also sent a message to the seafarers' trade union that such a draft was pending, but we did not get a reflex or a letter or a petition from them so that something should be changed when processing this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U427	Rene Chef, please! Couldn't get through. Let's get Tarmo Kruusimäe first, then let's try Rene again. René, if you can hear me, put yourself in line again. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U428	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! On Monday, the Committee on the Environment addressed the issue of marine pollution. I ask whether the opinion was also sought from the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U429	You mean the question of ship-to-ship loading? No, the Committee on Economic Affairs has not been asked for an opinion, but I know that it is being dealt with. And when the parties reach common understanding, the Committee on Economic Affairs will certainly discuss it as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U430	Let's try again. Rene Chef, please! I can't hear you. Actually, you're running out of time, but I can't hear you. We have another question, you and I are interrupting now. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U431	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Indeed, the issue of ship-to-ship loading has developed a heightened interest. I understand that this was not specifically the subject of this sitting, but it is possible that the subject was also addressed in this context, that, if there is still an area near nature reserves where this activity can be carried out, it would clearly be necessary to carry out an environmental impact assessment in the context of this area. We know that the environment is actually important and... special attention has been paid to it. [[The connection's breaking up.]] ...and these effects can be obvious. Did you discuss this and what do you think of it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U432	In the context of this draft, the Committee on Economic Affairs did not discuss this issue, but the Ministry of Economic Affairs has kept us informed of the discussions that are currently taking place on this issue. On 10 February, the Minister of the Environment called a round table, where representatives of the Association of Estonian Ports, Estonian Shipowners' Association, Transit and Logistics Association, Estonian Chamber of Environmental Associations, Ministry of Interior, Police and Border Guard Board, Environmental Board, Transport Board and Agency Navest Agency LLC participated and expert on the Law of the Sea. The MKM reported in writing that it was in favour of the transfer of dangerous cargo in ports. I deliberately read to you the wide circle of those who are, in fact, the safety authorities responsible for the organisation of cargoing at sea. Following this round table discussion, the Ministry of the Environment prepared amendments to Regulation No 51 of the Government of the Republic and submitted them to ministries for coordination on 17 February. The Ministry of Finance did not coordinate the draft, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior agreed with the comments. Discussions and consultations are still ongoing, and I do not dare to express my personal opinion prematurely, all the more so as the Committee on Economic Affairs has not discussed it. The subject is complicated, but we are well aware.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U433	Okay, let's try reconnecting with Rene Coke. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U434	Can you hear me now? That's great! President-in-Office of the Council. Good waitress! Did the Commission also discuss, in the framework of this draft, what will happen if we grant the right of hope to masters or the right of entry, in principle, to all captains who are going to enter ports? As you mentioned, two thirds go to Estonian ports all the time, but this third, who very rarely travels, may not feel the conditions of entry to somewhere very rarely. Do we not pose a greater risk of accidents, marine accidents and environmental accidents when we no longer have a mandatory pilot whose work is to bring ships to ports every day? Did you discuss the matter from this angle too?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U435	Yeah, it's a safety issue. The same thing we didn't lose in safety was asked. The Federation of Ports confirmed that safety is certainly not affected. I'll try to explain. In order to gain access to a driving test, the captain must go to a particular port at least ten times with the pilot and then have the right to go to a pilot driving test. If he does, he'll be able to drive to a particular port without any hope. And a large number of ships going to ports regularly go to them. Some take 20 trips a year, some take 40 trips. But the same captains can travel to these ports for years. Perhaps a captain of Latvia or Finland or Sweden has already travelled to that port for two hundred times, and he is well aware of that. Being on board a pilot doesn't increase the safety of navigation for him anymore. But what does hoping mean? That means there's a scooter in the harbor that takes aboard the pilot. The pilot boat has a captain, and the pilot boat has a mechanic. Three people are heading for the raid where the hope must begin, the return will bring the ship to the harbor. Once again, the same, or three people, are doing twice as much work, which, in fact, should not be done from a safety point of view, if these captains could hope to take the driving test in English, because they do not speak Estonian. But the captains of these ships, who rarely go to ports, or are new people, must visit the port ten times with the pilot anyway. The obligation to rely on them will not be reduced. However, since the number of vessels regularly sailing to ports is high, it would be the case that if these captains were allowed to take a driving test in English, the order for the Estonian pilot would be drastically reduced. This would change the possibility of the economic provision of the Estonian pilotage service. And this is where we have to calculate how these fees will change and how formations will change, and what will be the cost of hoping for those ships who do not have the right to drive.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U436	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U437	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! You said that there is now one change that will be decided by the Ministry of Economic Affairs instead of the government. I don't really understand what the difference is, but I was hoping that if you call the Ministry of Economic Affairs, you'd say they'd join the Ministry of the Environment. The definition of watercourses can also be an environmentally sensitive issue. When it comes to this pilot thing, you finally came to the fact that the problem also has an economic side, not just that three people travel around the sea in vain. As a former member of the Estonian Pilot Council, I do hope that the Estonian Pilot will still have income and that we will not pinch it very big and very sharply.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U438	The initiators of the draft act thought that when determining the port waters, the right institution was the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and that this should not be the responsibility of the government. There's no way I can argue with that proposal. But as far as piloting is concerned, Estonian Loots is an Estonian state company that offers piloting services in Estonia, and there are quite a few people working there. The empty ship is met by three people and one ship is sent away by three people, and all three of them are highly qualified maritime officers. But we do know that there is a huge shortage of ship officers in the labour market. I'm not sure we really have to send three people to meet that hopping area, if these three people have to send a captain who might be entering the port for the 200th time. This is, in my opinion, a pretense of this kind of work, and it is certainly a pity, in a national economic sense, that very highly qualified people are doing a job that really does not need to be done. The pilotage fee and the sustainability of the Estonian pilot are, of course, topics that need to be calculated. There are more fees in the maritime sector, waterway charges and port entrance fees. Maybe they could be bigger then and a pilot service more expensive for those ships that actually need the pilot. Or it could be subsidised at the expense of higher water rates. These are my thoughts, where a source of cover could come from, which compensates for the loss of income of the Estonian pilot. I think it makes sense, however, to look for sources of cover instead of working with highly educated seafarers, which does not really need to be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U439	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U440	Thank you, President of the sitting. I turned off my camera, it looks like the connection's been severed. I hope you can hear me. My question concerns the same subject of hope. Annely will also be very familiar with what is happening in the Gulf of Pärnu, the Gulf of Riga. In fact, these situations are not rare, where the entry of a ship into a port leads to a diversion from the shipping lane. This often has the consequences of breaking down the traps of beach fishermen. There has now been an opportunity to turn to the Estonian state in this case, but if hoping on the entrance is not necessary, what will it look like? If damage has been caused, must the coastal fisher turn to the flag State or what will it look like?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U441	In the event of damage, the person causing the damage must be contacted. In maritime affairs, basically all operations at sea are covered by liability insurance, as the operator still has human lives when operating at sea, not to mention expensive ships and goods. But I know about my practice in the Bay of Pärnu quite well and, having worked there, I do not know if the ship that is really hoped for has sailed off the shipping lane into the coastal fishing nets. Maybe it is, but I haven't heard. Smaller hobbies and recreational facilities, sometimes lower in their depths, will sail off the side of the ship and into the traps of coastal fishermen. They have a shortcut from here and there, and maybe in the dark they don't notice the signs of the net fishing lines. Well, there's been these entrances to the coastal fishing nets. But I have not heard that the ship hoped for by Pärnu's pilots would sail off the ship's path and into the nets of coastal fishermen. Maybe it's happened.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U442	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. We can go to the negotiations. Please, Tarmo Kruusimäe!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U443	Good vice chairman! Good colleagues who are watching us from a safer distance there, and, of course, all the good comrades who were once sailed with and who, of course, are now sailing on larger bases. I'm just floating on the waves of life with my log, which I might call a raft. But that's it. It is always good to hear Annely Akkermann talk about maritime affairs; she speaks well with a malleable and quiet voice. I don't know how he did it at all, because there's got to be a clear, clear voice on the sea. But I want to talk about one of those fundamental problems I've been discussing with my comrades, who was actually surprised by the press release from the Committee on the Environment, which was very strange. Simply put, they didn't understand how dry country rats would discuss the sea. We're talking about that cargo at sea. It would still be much safer to bring it to the port territory, where, in the event of any pollution, all these beams and scanners are immediately available, the pollution will be quickly drawn there. Right now, if there's some pollution on the sea, they're gonna call for help, but in the meantime, the pollution is going to move on. Perhaps this is a subject that should be discussed by the Board of the Riigikogu. Because the maritime sector is extremely specific. We have approved the idea of bringing ships under the flag of Estonia across political parties. That's good. Right now, all this competence has been gathered by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. We were all extremely demanding in this very Chamber, and now the Vice-Chancellor of this area is maritime education. There's one thing about dry land, and the other is about sea roots, and there's still a pretty big difference, I think. In the same way, perhaps this is a completely different matter in military structures. I do not believe that the maritime support group, for example, has the highest level of competence, even though there are very many people there. Let's put our hand on the heart: today, anyone can do some kind of support group and say he has competence in this area. Perhaps someone is interested, for example, in the Missial Trico rounds, and then we are doing the Missial Trico round support group and we are saying that we have this competence. I therefore think that the Board of the Riigikogu could discuss the matter exactly as the opinion of the committees is given to ELAK. With such specific topics, you might still know that if we have one big goal to get the ships under the flag of Estonia, this competence is gathered by the Economic Commission and should always be involved in these matters. That was my simple thought. Surprise-surprise, but the press releases from the committees people read and sometimes, if there are any inconsistencies, they get upset. My criticism, I hope, was still positive, and I believe that the next time a draft concerns maritime affairs, the Committee on Economic Affairs will also be involved. Thank you very much. But about the bill: winks-on! I'll support you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U444	Thank you. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U445	Thanks again! I was moved to speak on a subject specifically concerning the voyage to port of ships without a pilotage service. I, as a member of the Committee on the Environment, have also been approached before when there have been cases where a long-distance ship has deviated from the shipping lane and has broken the traps of coastal fishermen. In one particular case, not gill nets, but traps. And I've been asked what to do in that case. The answer has often been that even if a pilot exists on a ship, the pilot is not responsible for this departure, but is responsible for the company to which the ship belongs. Indeed, there are insurances, but it may be extremely difficult to obtain compensation or reimbursement from a company somewhere far away. My recommendation for further processing of this draft could be to look at the way in which our people who carry out activities in these waters would be able to receive compensation for damage caused by the State, either through state aid or through state intervention, in the event of damage. I don't know if it could be through the piloting service or otherwise, but that window itself should be there for them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U446	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U447	As a quick reply, if anyone else turns to Mr Metsoja, he could be advised to contact the ship's agents, who basically represent these ships in all matters. These are already Estonian companies, they can easily be contacted.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U448	Looks like the negotiations are over. We will go to the examination of the amendments. There are 29 amendments. Amendment 1, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs itself, and the commission has taken its own proposal into account in substance. Amendment 2, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and fully taken into account. Amendment 3, proposed by the Committee on Economic Affairs itself, and fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 4, proposed by the Committee on Economic Affairs, which has taken its proposal fully into account. Amendment 5, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, has taken the proposal fully into account. Amendment 6, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, has also been fully taken into account. Amendment 7 would be tabled again by the Committee on Economic Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 8, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and fully taken into account. Amendment 9, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, was fully taken into account. Amendment 10 would be tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and taken fully into account. Amendment 11, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, fully taken into account. Amendment 12, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, was fully taken into account. Amendment 13, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, was fully taken into account. Amendment 14, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, fully taken into account. Proposal No 15, by the Committee on Economic Affairs, has taken full account of it itself. Amendment 16, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, fully taken into account. Amendment 17, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, was fully taken into account. Amendment 18, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, was fully taken into account. Amendment 19, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, decision of the commission: take full account. Amendment 20, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 21, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, was fully taken into account. Amendment 22, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, was fully taken into account. Amendment 23, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, was fully taken into account. Amendment 24, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and taken fully into account. Amendment 25, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, was fully taken into account. Amendment 26 would be tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and taken fully into account. Amendment 27, tabled again by the Committee on Economic Affairs, fully taken into account. Amendment 28, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the Commission. Amendment 29 has also been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and has taken full account of it. We have examined all the amendments. The decision of the commission is to interrupt the second reading of draft 284. Second reading aborted. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 5 p.m. on 14 April. 15.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U449	Let's move on to the agenda. Today's third item is the first reading of the draft law 327 on the amendment of the Media Services Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. The rapporteur is Anneli Ott, Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U450	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen in this Chamber and behind the screen! I bring to you the draft law amending the Media Services Act and related amendments to other laws. The main objective of this draft is to transpose the revised European Union Audiovisual Media Services Directive number 2018/1808, which entered into force in 2018. This directive has been transposed into Estonian national law in the past by the Media Services Act, which is why the amendments mainly concern this law. The general objective of the Directive is to ensure fair competition and equal treatment for all market participants in the audiovisual content services market. It is also one of the main objectives of updating and updating the regulation in the whole area, but also the creation of a better-functioning mechanism to protect Estonia's interests in cross-border media services, where we will be able to protect Estonia's information space and society more effectively in the event of information attacks. Both the audiovisual media market and consumption, as well as technology, have changed significantly over the last decade. The main development has been the integration of television and on-demand audiovisual media and internet services. Consumers are increasingly using services from all kinds of equipment, and broadcasters are expanding their activities online. In addition, new types of content are becoming increasingly important from audiovisual media services, which are no longer created by professional service providers, but also by users through various video-sharing platforms such as YouTube, as well as various social media channels. Media literacy is also becoming increasingly important, precisely because of the changed media landscape. Thanks to social media, all kinds of messages spread faster than ever before. Alongside media content, over which professional editorial responsibility is guaranteed, there is a large number of content created by users themselves. In such an environment, it is vital that people are able to critically assess the flow of information to them. The Ministry of Education and Research is responsible for media literacy. As mentioned, most of the changes concern the Media Services Act, but to a lesser extent the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act, the Electronic Communications Act, the Advertising Act and the State Fees Act are also amended. In summary, the main changes to the Estonian legal system. In the future, video platform managers will be included in the scope of the Act. For example, if television and on-demand audiovisual media service providers compete for the same audience's attention, their adapted regulation has so far been uneven and, for example, for video-sharing platforms, regulation has been completely lacking. One of the best known video-sharing platforms is YouTube, as well as various social media channels, most of which do not belong to the Estonian legal space. The law, including the licensing system, will be adapted to new audiovisual media services. New services include, for example, web television on major news portals. According to the current rules, online television is not even a media service because it does not meet one or the other of the conditions laid down by law. At the same time, it is actually a "classic television service'. The rules on the protection of minors and the protection of morality and legality applicable to television services and audiovisual media services on-demand shall be harmonised. In the past, they were less favourable to the on-demand service providers and gave them a competitive advantage compared to the television service provider. The most famous on-demand audiovisual media services are Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, iTunes and HBO, as well as domestic video rentals. The restrictions on the volume of television and advertising will be relaxed and made more flexible. Indeed, several strict restrictions on television advertising are no longer up-to-date as they do not allow the television service provider to earn the expected level of revenue due to changes in the advertising market. This, in turn, hampers support for the production of new audiovisual works. The advertising market is fragmented between television channels, online media and social media, so flexibility is justified. The audiovisual media service provider shall be obliged to disclose its ownership structure. This is to ensure that media consumers have the necessary background and skills to critically assess specific media content. The Ministry of Education and Research is appointed to be responsible for promoting media literacy within the framework of the planning of the state's education policy and the organisation of related areas. For the Ministry of Education and Research, this is not a new task, but a clear definition of the issue and responsibility. In order to better protect the interests of both natural and legal persons, claims made on television or radio shall be subject to an extension of the period of opposition from 20 to 30 days. The draft has supplemented the provisions relating to the prohibition of hate speech by adding a ban on incitement to violence and clarifying their basis. In order to improve access to audiovisual media for disabled people, audiovisual media service providers are obliged to draw up accessibility action plans. The impact and effectiveness of this measure will be assessed by the Ministry of Culture in 2024 and, on the basis of the evaluation results, will develop precise accessibility requirements for the following year, which will be established by a decree of the Minister of Culture. In order to stimulate the creation of audiovisual services in Europe, a quota of at least 30% of the programme catalogue will be introduced for on-demand audiovisual media service providers in Europe. In order to ensure the necessary media diversity and media freedom, the need to ensure, to the extent required by the Directive, the independence and capacity required for the performance of the tasks of the National Media Supervisory Authority, the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority and to create the necessary conditions for supervision, for example by extending, inter alia, the storage periods for broadcast recordings, depending on the type of licence required for the provision of television or radio services from 20 days to 30 to 90 days. The draft was drawn up with the participation of representative organisations with a bearing on the subject and defending the interests of the field: the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, the Estonian Broadcasting Association, the Estonian Society of Information Technology and Telecommunications and the Estonian Association of Media Enterprises, as well as the audiovisual media service providers that were authorised at the time or who submitted a notification of economic activity. In addition, Ekspress Media AS was included, whose main news portals Delfi is managed by Elfi can qualify as an audiovisual media service within the meaning of the Media Services Act with its own Delfi TV, as well as Postimees Grupp AS. The amendments to the Audiovisual Media Services Directive were presented to those involved in September 2019 and written feedback was gathered on the draft legislation on the basis of them in February 2020. Stakeholders proposed, for example, how to better protect minors from inappropriate media content, as well as on issues relating to access to audiovisual media services for people with disabilities and to television and radio advertising. To date, an additional round of involvement of target groups has also been carried out under the leadership of the Cultural Committee of the Riigikogu. Within this framework, the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People and the Estonian Broadcasting Association have submitted their proposals for the draft to give even stronger visibility to the questions of accessibility of media services, and the second to adapt the regulations concerning the mandatory minimum volume and duration of licences in news programmes. Discussions on these proposals are still ongoing. This bill has also been linked to a violation of freedom of expression. However, a distinction must be made between the abuse of freedom of expression and the violation of freedom of expression. Freedom of expression is not an absolute right because it is always accompanied by obligations and responsibilities. It's a question of whether they're restricting anyone's freedom of speech. Any interference with the use of freedom of expression is an obstacle to freedom of expression. Such intervention may be legitimate, i.e. allowed interference or illegal, i.e. violation of freedom of expression. The Media Services Act is about protecting the rights of other people. This is in line with both the European Charter of Fundamental Rights and, for example, the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the Estonian Constitution. The proportionality of each restriction shall be assessed on a case-by-case basis when the prohibition of incitement to violence and hatred is implemented. Thus, the transposition and implementation of the Audiovisual Media Services Directive in the Estonian legal area does not mean that part of the freedom of expression has automatically been restricted or abolished. That's where I finish the introduction. Thank you and I'm ready to answer your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U451	Thank you. There are questions. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U452	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Minister. You were talking about the barrage of freedom of speech, and you mentioned that the barricade is not a restriction. At the same time, one of the authors of this draft has said in Siim Rohtla's "Actual Camera" that the Media Services Act will certainly restrict freedom of expression, but it will be done for a better and safer society. Do you argue with him that freedom of expression is being restricted? If so, what is the origin of these different interpretations? Doesn't one of the authors of the bill understand which bill he's written?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U453	Thank you for your question. In this case, it is the transposition of the European Union Directive into Estonian legislation. I cannot comment on how officials have commented on their contributions and work anywhere in the media, but here we are talking about an additional explanation of how they can express themselves in the media. We are talking about not encouraging hatred and violence. Clothes aren't a violation. Clothes aren't a siege either. In this respect, we are talking specifically about the transposition of the directive, which is actually in line with the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and, to a very large extent, with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, which clearly states that discrimination on grounds of nationality, race, colour, gender, language, origin, religion, political or other beliefs, property and social status or other circumstances is not allowed. What someone has commented on in the public space, I can't comment. I am talking here about transposing the amended directive into our law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U454	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U455	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Would you please clarify once more and name a few authorities and issues that are not currently covered by the law, but after that...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U456	René, we can't hear you. You don't have a microphone, at least not the microphone on your head. I can't hear you now. Let's try it again.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U457	How about now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U458	He hears me well. Start over.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U459	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Please, could you clarify once more and name a body and a subject that is not currently covered by the law, but after the draft has become a law, will be part of it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U460	I'm so sorry! Some institution or... I kind of lost it once. [[The floor shall be specified.]] Topics not covered by the law. Which bodies or topics fall under the law, it will be governed by the TTJA, and its competence will be which bodies according to how...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U461	Madam Secretary, I'm interrupting. Let's try, maybe Rene can ask again, because I also felt that this question remained [in half]... Let's give Rene the floor again, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U462	Thank you. What's bad, it's again. Can you hear me now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U463	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U464	The question was whether the Minister could specify and name an institution or a subject which is not covered by the law currently in force, but after this draft has become a law, it will be included. [I ask for it] so that everyone can understand what it brings to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U465	Our current Media Services Directive already regulates exactly the same legal area. I do not know which agencies or companies are going to belong exactly to [this law], but the transposition of the directive governs the entire media space of the European Union. The principle is that we should be in one media room; we would be similarly protected here in Estonia and in Europe at large. This is such a broad-based idea of transposition of this directive. Which institutions will belong exactly depends on how they meet the conditions under which video platforms, for example, fall within the scope of the current law. I don't really know how to read them, but in my speech, I've made a few points about what they might be. Take YouTube, for example. YouTube is actually meeting all these conditions today; it is implementing even more stringent requirements than the directive provides for. For example, Netflix and Amazon Prime Video would also be subject to this [Law]. The topic is that both those companies that are registered in Estonia and those that are not registered in Estonia but share their material or service or content to the people of Estonia, Estonia can apply the supervision procedure to them, but of course with the country where the company is registered. Or, on the contrary, Estonia can apply a monitoring procedure if we find that a law ban can be interpreted against us. So in this respect, it extends across the European Union and ensures a level playing field throughout the media landscape. Unfortunately, I don't know how to present these companies here. Perhaps this can be asked in the course of the procedure by the Commission who they are. But I can name those who have been negotiated and who are likely to be covered by this law: for example, Express Media, who is managed by the news portal Delfi with Delfi TV, and the Postimees Group, who offers television broadcasts in the same way. They are likely to be [media service providers] companies within the meaning of the Media Service Act. But they're definitely in the explanatory memorandum. Right now, I can't read them out of your head like that anymore.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U466	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U467	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Good minister! You have already talked about the big picture or the pan-European picture, and I will ask you more about Estonia. There should also be a specific need for this law for every law, so that we do not simply produce bureaucracy or make life more difficult for businesses and people. I would like to ask where there is this problem in Estonian society, which is now precisely solved by this regulation and which cannot be resolved within the framework of the existing law. I ask the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U468	Thank you very much for this question. As we know, Estonia is a Member State of the European Union, and as a Member State, we have agreed on certain rules. We have transposed a similar directive in the past, but as the media landscape is changing very quickly now, we have a wide range of opportunities for people to consume media services, so the directive that is already in force has been updated. These discussions have been going on for a few years and Estonia has, of course, contributed to these discussions. The deadline for transposing the directive was actually 19 September last year, so Estonian politicians have discussed it for quite a while. However, it must be borne in mind that the European Union directive must be transposed directly into our laws, and we must explain precisely which laws this directive applies in the Estonian judicial area. We have agreed together that we will do this in the European Union. This [draft] is an update of the existing Directive according to how the landscape of media services has changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U469	Helle-Moonika Helme. You have a word, Moonika!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U470	Yeah, I got here, sorry, the remote lost a little bit. Good minister! I have a question about the fact that, as we know, this draft law also addresses media literacy as a separate chapter, the development of which [promotion] strategy is in the hands of the HTM. At the same time, the European Commission, which will monitor the functioning of this law, has not yet begun to develop guidelines on media literacy. How can we now adopt this draft as a law if it contains a part of which we do not yet know the criteria for monitoring and sanctions? We will also give the European Commission a 'blank bill' on these criteria and sanctions. This is not good legislation. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U471	Thank you very much for your question. The issue of media literacy is certainly very important. The fact that the Ministry of Education and Research receives this task has nothing new for them, they have dealt with it in the past and will continue to do so. Now, with regard to this directive on the introduction of points into the [media services] law: if we are developing a law, then it is not always the case that everything is already in our legal space. The Ministry of Education and Research will, of course, develop this subject in accordance with the directive and will also, at some time, take stock and review of it. Personally, I consider the issue of developing media literacy to be extremely important, especially in the case of young people who must orient themselves in a very diverse media landscape today. I do not want to give very harsh examples here, but we have also seen such very engaging games, where young people are sent to do very extreme acts, and the number of those who do this is not small. So the responsibility for developing media literacy in this respect is certainly very important. I think that whether the European Commission controls it in any way or complements it is not important in this sense to the end. Rather, it is important for our people to be able to orient themselves in the media landscape and to understand what is important to them, so that they understand who produces this content, what is the real meaning of its content and what is the real value of its content.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U472	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U473	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I would like to know on the basis of which it was decided that the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority is competent to monitor discrimination or incitement to hatred. What cases have the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority previously resolved that there is a conviction that it has experience in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U474	Thank you very much for this question. As we know, the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority has dealt with media issues before, and this is not a new thing for them. Also in the discussions in the Commission, which will be presented to you afterwards, I will not be going to be more specific here on this subject, and it has set out exactly the moments that have had to be dealt with so far. Of course, additional tasks will come to the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority in connection with the transposition of this directive, but these tasks will be within the framework of this draft. Consequently, commitments have also been taken into account to ensure that the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority has the technical capacity to perform its tasks. Surveillance decisions can always be challenged, so we have a judicial system. If, in the opinion of the media service provider, they are not competent or fair, they can be challenged before the courts. However, the application of this Directive does not change much in substance for the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority. In fact, this issue has been on their desk since 2013 when they started monitoring what is happening in the media.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U475	Uno Kaskpeit, please! Sound, Uno!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U476	[[Remote connection]] Do you hear me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U477	It is now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U478	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. Who are the people who are going to decide whether anger is being aroused or not in some shows? What will be the rules of their work on the basis of which it will be measured?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U479	Thank you very much for your question. As I have already mentioned, it is the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority and their officials who have been working on this issue since 2013. We are actually talking here about freedom of expression, we have the freedom to hold a political debate, we have the freedom to express our opinions. We are talking about when, through the media service provider's service, this service, which is being distributed publicly, encourages violence or hatred towards others, so that other people must be protected from it. I don't know if you want to know exactly who the people are who are going to decide whether or not some show is inciting anger. I'm afraid I can't say that today. These people are probably not all in the job yet, but I'm sure they'll be very competent and professional people. If we are now talking about this procedure, I do not know whether there is a specific fear that there will now be a very large censorship for freedom of expression. It certainly isn't. And I would certainly like to make it clear here in this remote control that we are talking about a number of stages here before we come to concrete steps, which means either enforcement or temporary closure of the media channel. Based on current experience, which has also been described by the TTJA, it is preceded by a very long process of communication with the service provider. If incitement to hatred still proves to be very systemic, long-term and continuous, additional measures must be taken to protect the media space and our society at large. However, in this sense, the debate between different opinions is certainly not what we are talking about when it comes to transposing this directive. We are still talking about the fact that incitement to hatred and violence against others is not allowed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U480	Let's move on to a nice pace. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U481	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You are misleading the Riigikogu, you are misleading the public, and there is nothing in the Treaty of Accession about it, and everything that concerns freedom of expression is the competence of each Member State itself. So the transposition of the directive is indeed one of these forms of work in communication between the Member States of the European Union and the Commission. But that doesn't mean we have to bring in censorship. And here's my question. My home party has endured hate speech, slander, lying over the years. We are delighted when we adopt this draft, because in the next government we are in, we will certainly use it to eliminate hate speech against us and to close down media publications that produce hate speech against us. Do you agree that the purpose of this draft is to eliminate, eliminate and eliminate political opponents?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U482	Thank you for that question. The transposition of this directive into the Media Services Act still concerns the protection of the rights of others to be protected against incitement to hatred and violence. And this will be monitored by an independent supervisory authority. There are definitely professional people who can appreciate it. Everyone here has an equal opportunity to make use of this directive. If the supervisory authority considers that this is a breach of the Directive, the supervisory authority should also deal with it. As I said earlier, Estonia, as a Member State of the European Union, has agreed that we will protect our common media space, we will work together to do so, we have already transposed the directive and its original version. In 2018, we agreed that, due to the change in the media service landscape, we would also take over this new directive.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U483	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U484	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Madam Secretary! The automatic transposition of this directive is a very bad idea. This whole directive itself is a very hunchback. The desire of liberal parties to establish censorship is still behind this whole undertaking. And he's also a piece of the puzzle about the big key to bringing the state to the police. But you mentioned that this directive hypothetically protects against information attacks. One feels like an attack, the other as objective information. What do you deal with under information attacks? Somehow it seems to me that it would take about two weeks for the portal to shut down the Lens according to this clause.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U485	Thank you for your question. I have to apologize, I'm certainly not the expert who can say that. I think that we have legislative authorities in Estonia, as well as very professional security authorities, who can tell us if such information attacks are to come on the Estonian state from outside. This is one topic that I mentioned in a very wide range of topics. I do believe that no Estonian media channel is such a risk that we can talk about Estonia's security and information attacks. This was one example that I have just given in connection with the fact that it is a directive of the European Union, which means that we are across the common European information area. Today, 15 countries have transposed this directive and 12 are still working on it, including Estonia. This directive gives us all a common media space where we can support each other if we find that the media service provider or the consumer, who is the creator of the content, is using it in a hostile manner [the space].
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U486	Thank you very much. There are many, many more questions for you, Minister. We're going to move on here at a nice pace. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U487	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President. Good Minister of Culture! I go to the words of Mart Helme and Urmas Reitelmann, which contained a warning. As the Chinese say, every stick has two ends. What you want to do now can be a very painful setback. The public needs to know what we're doing right now. When we talk about a directive, it is not an order and an obligation. The directive, unlike the regulation of the European Union, is a piece of legislation that gives us a guide according to which we can decide for ourselves how we will introduce it. But right now, it's like a Brezhnev package that we're taking in a huge siege, banning, obstructing, censorship. I am interested in what makes you secretly introduce so-called hate speech regulation at the media level, and why you are trying to bring into practice a wide media censorship in Estonia under the so-called blurry label of media freedom.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U488	Thank you for your question. Certainly, the addition of an existing directive is not about censorship. The incitement to violence and hatred shall be prohibited. The directive introduced a ban on incitement to violence and hatred as a legitimate objective by adding, on the basis of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, the characteristics by which it can be assessed whether our people are protected and safe. It cannot be that, on the basis of the characteristics set out in the Charter of Fundamental Rights, anger or violence can be aroused against someone. But I don't know if I'm going to read them. We all know that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U489	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U490	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Good minister! There has been much talk here about the Charter of Fundamental Rights and the Regulations and directives and all that. Article 21 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights states that any discrimination is prohibited. We're taking over, but we're taking over selectively. The draft contains a closed list of the characteristics on the basis of which discrimination is prohibited. But according to the Charter, all forms of discrimination are prohibited. Why do we keep this out? Any such interpretation, incitement to hatred, incitement to hatred, to whom are those people who begin to judge neutrally without ideological bias? I'm very scared. Each such thing gives a negative result and there are a lot of interpretation options. Please explain.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U491	Thank you very much. With regard to the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, to which I have really referred several times already, we are talking about Article 21 and it really provides for a ban on discrimination and also points to the following grounds. I will, however, read them out, because it seems to me that there will be a debate on this. These are sex, race, skin colour, ethnic or social origin, genetic characteristics, language, religion or belief, political or other opinions, membership of a national minority, property status, birth, disability, age, sexual orientation and citizenship. Why has this list of charters been introduced into this bill? In fact, the directive does not provide for any limitation, and the bases which they have pointed out are historically very long practice, on the basis of which it is clear today that all these threats can be placed down here, and on the basis of this list we can ensure that all people are protected. If there are such moments where we cannot say whether [some case] is included in this list, the Estonian Constitution will also help us, which says that hatred and violence must not be instigated against anyone. We are now talking about the transposition of the directive, which refers to this article of the Charter, and so has Estonia. It is common practice that when we transpose the directive, we do not extend it, but we directly transpose it. The honourable Riigikogu can supplement this bill whenever it considers it necessary, it is an honorable opportunity for all. The preparation of this draft law is currently based on the requirement set out in the Directive and this article of the Charter has also been included here. Unfortunately, this cannot be added more generally, because this is what we all have agreed at European Union level.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U492	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U493	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. A very confusing situation has arisen. The author of the bill says that freedom of expression is restricted, you say that freedom of expression is not restricted. At the same time, you are talking about banning incitement to hatred. And look, this is a highly ambiguous and vague terminology, the use of which does not in any way guarantee that freedom of expression is maintained. Let me give you a simple example. When I say that Estonia is a country of Estonians, it may seem to someone to be inciting hatred against ethnic minorities. Please explain how the maintenance of freedom of expression will be ensured in this case.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U494	Thank you for your question. I don't quite know how to comment on the author's comment on the law, what you called it. The law has been brought to the Riigikogu by the Ministry of Culture and I really do not know how to comment on these previous comments anywhere in the public space, I understand your question as such. Regarding freedom of expression or its example, I have pointed out that we have an independent supervisory authority that assesses whether a media publication or a media service provider has infringed the directive. As I have explained to you, the directive does not violate freedom of expression. And if there is a report of a breach of the directive, then there are no penalties planned or taken into account. This, as certainly the honourable Member of the Commission can, after you, be explained in the Commission as well, is a long process ahead of us. Should there be disagreements, surely the one who is the subject of the question will be able to explain and defend his or her views. However, if the Authority's decision is not acceptable to the media service provider, it can always appeal to the courts.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U495	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U496	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! No doubt you are an extremely smart woman, without an irony. You talk about hate speech all the time, and you talk about the fact that there are appropriate authorities who are going to appreciate all this. The question is that it should still be clear to the ordinary citizen where the line between hate speech and freedom of expression runs. So that it is not so that a person unwittingly falls into a group that is classified as hate speech. It's very simple in traffic: if there's a red light on, we're not going across the street, but if there's a green light, we're going across the street. Please tell me the kind of thing where there are the limits between freedom of expression and hate speech, so that people can understand it without police intervention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U497	Thank you very much for this question. This directive talks about media services and media service providers. We're not talking about people on the street here, we're talking about the legal person who provides media services. He is responsible for ensuring that his platform does not give rise to a situation of incitement to hatred and violence and hostility towards other people, which could lead to a greater expansion of this process. First of all, it is, of course, the responsibility of the platform where anger can be aroused, the keeper, the creator of this environment. Let me give you a specific example. If there is any channel that mediates its programmes through YouTube, then [for him these restrictions are already in force, because] YouTube already applies all the restrictions that are currently in this directive. It is quite clear that the platforms currently operating in Estonia have also been involved in the transposition process of this directive. And no media service provider's feedback has so far provided any indication that they would see the danger that they would no longer be able to express themselves freely on the channels they have created in the future. The directive is designed to protect us all. Protect our society and also protect the European Union at large. I think that such statements of opinion by a private person on the street, if I did not misunderstand the honourable questioner, are not the issues we are discussing here in the context of the transposition of this directive.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U498	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U499	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, I have an interesting example since 2003, since the campaign to join the European Union, when consumer protection ordered MTÜ No posters to be taken down on the streets of Tallinn. At the same time, posters supporting the city's accession to the European Union remained up because they were said to have been fine. How will you prove that today's Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority is competent to monitor discrimination or incitement to hatred and will not begin the same persecution of a political view with a rubber board?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U500	Thank you very much for your question. As I have already mentioned, I am not going to reread these charter grounds, but there are certainly political opinions and convictions. Political debates are certainly more flexible here too, because the opposition must always be able to express its views and views on the coalition's activities. And it is certainly a great asset in a democratic society. I would like to emphasise once again that the independent supervisory authority is not the final decision maker in this regard either, there is always the possibility of recourse to the court if no agreement has been reached in the course of the procedure. Indeed, the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority has had to go down the route of temporary closure of the media channel or to take other measures to prevent this threat, which has been found to have been spread by some media channel. I am sure that it is always possible to deal with these disputes through a court of law. The experience gained so far with the current Directive and the current Media Services Act shows that these procedures have been very limited and have all been resolved by asking for and taking into account the explanations and proposals of both parties. All these observations are certainly extremely important here, all of which are very important in the context of the transposition of this directive. However, in the long term, we see that we are in a jointly agreed media service space at European Union level, and that is why we all understand very clearly that this is actually a protection for both us and our children.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U501	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U502	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! You said in the introduction that this law also contains certain elements of the hate speech law. But why is it necessary to introduce elements of hate speech law into this law and in such a form? You also said that this law will regulate incitement to violence and hatred. I would remind you that all of this is still regulated and punishable under the Penal Code. And where is there, perhaps you would be more specific in Estonian society than the problem that the new regulation is seeking to solve and which could not yet be solved under the law in force or under the other laws in force?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U503	Thank you very much for this question. First of all, we are still talking about criminal punishment when hate speech is dealt with under the Penal Code. On the other hand, the Media Services Act does not provide for criminal penalties. Here we are talking about the possibility of imposing penalties on media service providers in case of incitement to violence or hatred, applying administrative hours, temporarily closing the media channel, or precepting, imposing coercion in order to bring an infringement to an end. It's the exception that we're not talking about criminal proceedings here. I'm so sorry, I just got off the other side of the question a little bit. What's the other half again, could you repeat that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U504	You can't repeat according to the Home and Working Procedures Act, we don't have that chance, but I hope now no one is protesting, everyone will understand. I really do ask, Helle-Moonika Helme, to repeat very briefly, as the Minister asks. But otherwise, we don't have that chance. Please, Helle-Moonika Helme's microphone!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U505	I'm sorry! I have to start writing it down.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U506	Yes, thank you, thank you very much. My brief question was that where is the problem in Estonian society that the new regulation seeks to solve and which could not yet be solved under the current Media Services Act or other laws?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U507	Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity to clarify the question. In fact, at the beginning of my speech, I mentioned an apology that I would repeat myself! The fact that we are talking here about the application of a directive that we actually have already transposed into the law. We only specify this, we bring out the changes that have taken place in the media and we extend their terms or we harmonise the requirements that the media service provider must take into account. The improvement is that, if in the past there was only the subject of violence, the subject of incitement to hatred has now also been introduced. We must not incite hatred, and this ban is actually intended to protect the whole of society. It seems that this is the subject of concern now, and perhaps it is not related to the practices arising from this law. The violation of the Media Services Act has not been a great deal on the basis of feedback from TTJA on the basis of current practice. That is what we discussed in the Commission. So I cannot comment on this question in relation to what should be different in the future. Just incitement of violence and anger so that it harms someone or activates certain processes in society is not allowed. And that is why we are implementing this directive and we are using an independent supervisory authority that can assess its implementation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U508	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U509	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Could you please give some real examples of a topic that has been included in the media in Estonia's recent past, which could be called incitement to violence or hatred according to this bill? Then we can all get an idea of what we will have after the bill has been passed in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U510	Thank you for that question. I can rely on the discussions that took place between the honourable members of the Committee on Culture during the presentation of this draft law. There was also a representative of the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority, who pointed out that, in fact, there have been very few of these cases in their practice today. These procedures have been concluded by the fact that an agreement has been reached and have not had to go down the path of implementing very strict measures. So it sends a message that we cannot give examples today where we should have implemented the measures provided for in law or in the directive to prevent incitement to hatred and violence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U511	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U512	Thank you. When we were in the government, we didn't agree that this bill would be processed. You tell us repeatedly that we do not impose censorship here by this law, but you say that a supervisory authority will be created to review opinions, to issue opinions, and he is right, if these opinions are not suitable, to withdraw a licence, to shut down publications, to make precepts, to impose fines and to process them indefinitely. And then you said in another sentence that we defend people's right not to be insulted or discredited. In other words, we are creating a legal framework for people to say that I do not like what they say. And that is the introduction of censorship. This law specifically is the twin brother of the hate speech law, which creates censorship for legal persons, for natural persons you have the following salt. But in the Commission, when this matter was discussed, it was also said that there would be two of these officials and that they would act when there would be a complaint. Is that what we're creating right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U513	Thank you for that question. This is not a new task for the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority. For example, the Media Services Act still applies the ban on incitement to hatred. This ban also applies in the current law. The Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority has been involved in this and has so far carried out national supervision and has been an out-of-court judge of misdemeanours. The Agency has qualified staff, lawyers who are able to assess the constitutionality of the restrictions on freedom of expression and they certainly have experience in assessing media content. So in this respect, as I have also said, judicial control of decisions is guaranteed, as is the case with the rule of law. And all those against whom proceedings are brought also have the opportunity to challenge it in court.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U514	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U515	[[Remote connection]] President-in-Office of the Council. Good minister! One of the first questions to you was what this law would solve in Estonian society. I have listened carefully to these answers and these stories. Given that most things are governed by old laws, I understand that the transposition of the directive is, in a sense, your aim. Can you state very simply, clearly and briefly, which is what we do in Estonian society with this law? According to this law, how do we still preserve our culture and our customs and our nationalism so that it does not suffer as a result?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U516	Thank you very much for this question. Of course, I also think that it is very important to preserve Estonian culture. But I believe that this directive, too, will certainly help to do so. I will start again with Estonia being a member of the European Union for 17 years now. In this connection, we have agreed on certain forms of action. We have also agreed on this directive. This directive has already been transposed into our legal space in 2018. The Member States of the European Union, including Estonia, have also agreed on the transposition of this directive, which we are talking about today. The deadline for transposition was September 2020. As the honourable nationalist mentioned earlier, the previous political debates were such that this directive did not arrive in this Chamber at the right time. It's in this hall today. We are currently among the 12 countries that have not yet been able to transpose this directive. I will read out these countries so that you can know what the state of Estonia is at the moment. Those who have not yet taken over are Slovenia, Slovakia, Poland, the Czech Republic, Croatia, Ireland, Belgium, Romania, Spain, Cyprus, Italy and Estonia. It is, I think, information a few weeks ago or a week ago, perhaps by now some of these countries have already taken over, because the process is ongoing in these 12 countries. It must be acknowledged that infringement proceedings have been opened against Estonia. Estonia has replied to the European Commission that in the first half of 2021 we will transpose this directive into our legal space. And here we are now. My answer is that for Estonia, as a Member State of the European Union, the directive ensures that we are in a common media area. We use it on a common basis and respect the foundations that we have agreed on in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U517	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U518	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I'm sorry if I take a somewhat patronizing attitude, but I remember a time when practically all unpleasant views could be stamped into anti-Soviet or anti-Soviet attitudes. And it was all punitive, it was all deplorable. If not punished by prison or other means, it was possible to let go of work, other repressions could be used. What you're offering us right now is exactly the same. It's exactly the same! And if you're cheating on yourself, and if your partymates and your coalition mates are cheating on themselves, they're not cheating on me. And I will only draw one conclusion from your repeated repetition that it is the European Union and we have agreed. First of all, we have not agreed on this. Secondly, if it is the European Union, which requires us to maim ourselves, to censor ourselves, then I will draw one conclusion: there is an urgent need to leave the European Union, and I am quite convinced that I will initiate a support group here in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U519	Thank you very much. Was that a question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U520	Minister, please, you have the opportunity to respond, there is an opportunity to remain silent.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U521	I'd just like to clarify a part of the comment, if I may. However, we have agreed on this if the directive is... [[Shout from the hall.]] The Directive, as such, has been developed together with all Member States. I am not going to bring out this process of the European Union here, certainly a respected nationalist knows that too. But, of course, all MPs have the right to hold a debate on it in this Chamber, to express their views during the proceedings of the law, and that is only to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U522	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U523	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. Honourable Minister of Culture! I am very confused and it seems that we should suddenly leave the European Union because the European Union has become a growing problem for us, not a problem solver. And that's what it looks like. I completely agree with you that we already have the regulation under review. This is therefore clearly an empty, unnecessary and bureaucratic transposition of the Euro Act. And you yourself have repeatedly justified the transposition of this legislation in this Chamber today with references to the European Charter of Fundamental Rights. By the way, the European Charter of Fundamental Rights does not mention the word "hate" or "violence" or "incentive" or words, there are no words "media" or "media service," nor do they exist there. However, the European Charter of Fundamental Rights supports the preservation and development of existing values. The European Charter of Fundamental Rights does not talk about the need to regulate anger or violence or media services. However, he talks about the prohibition of discrimination and we already have everything in § 12 of the Constitution. [[The manager's calling from the bell.]] So the question is, what real, not formal...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U524	Good questioner, please questioner!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U525	... just a real need, a problem we try to regulate with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U526	Thank you. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U527	Thank you very much for this question. There are two issues. One is that, in the case of this directive, Member States are obliged to ensure that the audiovisual media service provided by media service providers under their jurisdiction does not include incitement to violence and hatred directed against a group of persons and members of that group on the grounds referred to in Article 21 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. We have already outlined these grounds in this article. It's like two parts. One is this part of the directive, and the other is the clarification part, what the directive describes, that is the Charter. That is why I have mentioned it here several times. I would like to reiterate, then, that the transposition of the directive is an environmental one-stop-shop for all concerned, so that the whole media sector develops on a uniform basis throughout the European Union and that we, as a Member State, have the opportunity to defend ourselves. If this content, which comes to the Estonian consumer from outside Estonia, does not meet the interests of our country and our consumer, the same point I was talking about, then we have the opportunity to challenge it. The Estonian state has the opportunity to challenge it when it comes from outside. So [by transposing the directive] we also protect our community, the Estonian population in general.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U528	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U529	Thank you. You're talking about common ground. I remembered the joke of a collective time about how a tractor pulls a blanket on everyone in a collective collective in a collective collective collective in a collide. But that is not the question right now. You didn't answer my question about where these boundaries run, suggesting that people on the street are not affected by this bill. Yes, it does, because media companies' providers are those people from the street. And if you're saying now that the only control body is these two or three people in surveillance, this is the same censorship that Martin Helme spoke of earlier. The question now is that you indicated that if there are any problems, go to court. But why do I have to go to court if there is no person or group of persons whose rights have been violated? It is essentially a censorship on your part and also a false statement on the European Charter.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U530	Thank you. I do not know what this false statement is about the European Charter. I just read it here and hope I wasn't wrong in any of the words. I think I am not mistaken when I say that this discussion is here about the possibility of political debate in the media. In fact, this very basis of the Charter says that, on the basis of political or other opinions, violence and hatred cannot be encouraged. So in this respect, we are all equal here and, for political opinions, these limits of freedom of expression are even more broad.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U531	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U532	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! You keep talking about protecting people. What are you trying to protect us from or from who? Well, there's no reason, you've admitted it yourself. Even now, we are "protected" by Facebook and YouTube, for example, without anyone knowing why and for what. The fact is, however, that we are wanted to be protected from normality and the ethical and moral standards developed over the millennia and from media publications that defend these views. Already today, people and publications in several Western countries are being punished if they dare to apply their freedom of expression in a direction that the left-wing liberals do not like. You want to impose this ideological dictatorship on us under some kind of hypothetical and undefined sign of hate incitement. Why does the government want to take us back to censorship and totalitarian regimes? We have lived in such a society and we are not willing to go back there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U533	Thank you for that question. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, there is no censorship and there will be no censorship. However, a censorship ban does not mean that the state is forbidden to assess the use of freedom of expression and, if necessary, to start proceedings in this regard. I think we teach all children that every act has a consequence and that every act requires responsibility. The same is true of freedom of expression. There is an equal sign between freedom of expression and responsibility and this must be taken into account. I do not remember this wording and maybe I just misinterpreted something, but it is still an agreement between one Member State, Estonia as a Member State of the European Union, and the transposition of the directive is an obligation. We are a member of the European Union. We have agreed to build our media space together. To this end, this Directive has been developed, supplemented by the existing one. And if there is a debate here on whether there is any reason to accept it, then [let it be said] there are also many other amendments and additions to this directive, which I have mentioned. The media landscape is very rapidly evolving, very rapidly changing. We have a large number of channels available, which may not seem to be a threat yet, and we are focusing on the inside of Estonia. But I think that the great value of this directive is also that we can protect our society from what reaches the people of Estonia from the outside. There are certainly service providers whose content creation does not take place in a country of the European Union but who are registered in a country of the European Union. This [Directive] will also provide Estonia with the possibility to intervene under the Directive to bring the service into compliance with the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U534	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U535	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! First of all, it would be clear that you claimed that TTJA was competent and had previously dealt with the media. I would point out that the TTJA has not dealt with a substantive assessment, but has measured the seconds of advertising and, for example, that the signal is not more powerful than promised. But my question is that if you insist here all the time on incitement to violence or hatred, whether it is precisely determined what are the words in which the media service provider can be sure that if he uses those words, it will be interpreted as incitement to violence or hatred. After all, the media service company must know exactly what these limits are, what can be said, what can not be said, because the interpretation is known to be subjective. It should not be the case that no one likes an opinion and that is why this law is applied. Have specific words been given to ensure that the media company knows exactly what can and cannot be used?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U536	Thank you very much for this question. We must realise that, in the case of this directive, we are still talking about incitement to social hatred, which can develop or grow into a real attack. And, as I mentioned earlier, a political debate or debate is allowed much more broadly, with freedom of expression much more flexible, much broader. There has certainly not been a single word given here, and as I said, there will certainly not be one. But I do not quite agree that TTJA has not dealt with the content. As far as I am aware, the current Media Services Act has been under the supervision of this authority since 2013 and, like what has been brought about in this directive or in these additions, the TTJA has since been substantially involved in the evaluation of these issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U537	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U538	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! Instigating social anger. I remember that in 2013 YouTube also tried to organize its own lines, and see, magically, about 20% of Estonian musicians' works disappeared. It was a pity, of course, that a lot of people had received raritec material from somewhere, put it up, and it's gone now. It is a disappearing part of Estonian culture, the more [back] it will not receive. But I ask how many Estonian punk bands would remain airworthy at all if we put [decisive] perhaps blood-sold young people whose sense of humor is so long and who do not want the context [know] or know between the lines [read], but who simply look. Punk is in essence an evil and angry protest, with a very sarcastic, very sharp text. Can you tell me one of the authors who would pass this gauntlet?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U539	Thank you very much for this question. I very much hope that the transposition of this directive will not jeopardise any musical collective. We are talking here, however, specifically about incitement to hatred and the danger of its growing up as a real attack. In fact, TTJA has dealt with these issues so far and it can be said that we do not have these cases. After all, this is an example of the fact that we are talking about a directive to be transposed into this area of justice as an opportunity for the future if it should happen that we have the need to protect our society from such threats. But to do so, this incitement must be directed towards a'social'. Freedom of expression, culture, freedom of political expression, they are not at risk for this directive.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U540	I was inspired by this question that we all reach out to each other and move on. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U541	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Let's talk about accessibility instead of violence. I am very pleased that this draft media law came to the Riigikogu after a long wait. According to this, audiovisual media service providers should draw up an accessibility action plan and make it accessible in a proportionate manner. I have a question that more precise guidelines on the timetable should be approved by the Minister in accordance with this draft by regulation. I ask: has this draft regulation been prepared for you and has it been negotiated with representatives of the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People and media organisations?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U542	Thank you for that question. It is indeed an important objective to improve access to audiovisual media for people with disabilities when the directive is renewed. Service providers must start developing action plans and provide TTJA with an overview of their performance. The Ministry of Culture will assess the impact of the provisions on accessibility for people with disabilities in 2024. The draft regulation is not yet in place. It will develop these more precise conditions once the media service providers have submitted their action plans. The Ministry of Culture will assess their impact and, on the basis of this impact assessment, a regulation will be drawn up that, under what conditions and how media service providers should adapt their service in the future, so that people with disabilities can also consume it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U543	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U544	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Anneli! The roots of our legal system are known to go back to the ancient Roman legal system, and there comes a principle such as the nullum poena sine lege, according to which someone can be punished only for committing an infringement expressly recorded in the law, with an extenuating interpretation or analogy being prohibited. To illustrate: we have a crime to kill a man, but killing a mosquito or a fly is not. This principle has reached the penal code and the legal space of all civilised countries. Laws are only established by parliaments, in Estonia we here in the Riigikogu. But do we not want this bill to give this right not even to the executive, but to one agency, the TTJA, who himself will formulate the concepts of hate speech and discrimination, which are completely scattered?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U545	No, I don't think we're going to give interpretation to a branch at random. Estonia is a rule of law which guarantees a clear separation of powers. Laws are passed by the Riigikogu, which gives the executive authority specific tasks and defines clear procedures and liability for the application of the law. So, yeah, I don't think there's an institution here that has such a chance of self-action.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U546	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U547	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Dear Minister, You have repeatedly argued that you are confident that the proposed changes will not be abused. My question is, what is the basis of your conviction in personal terms, because you said that you were personally confident, and that the company of dignified people is always behind their words. That's why I'm asking. How can you personally be sure that we will not see abuses in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U548	Thank you for that question. I think I have already replied here earlier that if we have a supervisory authority that has to deal with complaints that information or opinion is shared on some media service platforms that incites hatred, hatred in society, and that this procedure comes to the point that decisions are made that are to the detriment of the media service provider, then we, if in the rule of law, still have a court that makes the final decision. I believe in our rule of law, and I believe that these decisions will be fair. I cannot guarantee these cases and interpretations in this remote control, but I am sure that if the party against whom proceedings have been initiated disagrees with this, it is the judicial system of the Estonian state that guarantees justice. And it also gives me the belief that this directive will only be implemented on such principles in order to protect our society and not allow violence or hatred against anyone to be encouraged here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U549	Tarmo Kruusimäe!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U550	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! There are other terms, such as mind and genetics. And I understand that the band Pertti Kurikan Nimävät and the Estonian youth ensemble could not be shown, because people have different opinions. Many also do not like the fact that every day in the "Actual Camera" is shown as a background for the corona news. People are different, it may be violent for them. And this insanity: simplicity, sadness, difficulty, all of these are different forms of mind, even they can disturb someone somewhere. You understand, philologically, we all understand how much we can spin. But the right that the work is taken down and it is said that later you can get [permission to return] through the courtroom the artists are tender-hearted, they often put the hand on you before you start fighting again. We here may be fighters. I'm asking you, what a fine we'd have. We would pay this fine and say that the Estonian language is so rich, we have so many different forms of expression. We'd better pay a fine and leave the freedom of speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U551	Thank you. In essence, the transposition of the Directive into the Estonian legal area does not create any further restrictions. The Media Space has been controlled by TTJA since 2013 under the Media Services Act and their feedback to us is that they have not had to deal with such very strict cases. These [here] debates are very good, they must be held, I am absolutely convinced of it, but we are talking about incitement to hatred and violence. We are not talking about anyone's political stand; we are not talking about expressing anyone's convictions. We are talking about incitement to hatred in society and the possible reaction to it. We're protecting against so-called incitement to hatred.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U552	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U553	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Did I understand correctly from your previous response that the Minister's regulation on the timetable comes after the Ministry of Culture's analysis in 2024? I also ask that the transposition of the Media Services Directive has been delayed, but in a year's time, namely by June 2022, we will have to transpose the next directive which sets out the accessibility requirements for products and services. I wonder whether the Ministry currently has the transposition of this directive into national law on a timetable. Will we be able to process this here in time for next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U554	Thank you very much for this question. Yes, I said earlier that the Ministry of Culture was developing a regulation based on an impact assessment in 2024. Unfortunately, for the time being, I do not know how to respond to this second directive in the ministry, but I will have it sent to you in writing. I'll go over it at the Ministry and have it sent to you in writing, if that's okay.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U555	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U556	Thank you, Mr President, for giving the floor. Good minister! There have been many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, In order for us here to get back to the point and to understand what we are still talking about, can you conclude by saying why, in the context of the European Union, and why, as a member of the European Union, Estonia, given our geographical position, really needs the changes that this law describes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U557	Thank you very much for this question. That's right. It is precisely in view of our location in the European Union. Today, as I mentioned, 15 countries have transposed this directive. Twelve countries, including Estonia, have been the subject of infringement proceedings. I also called them. Estonia has promised to transpose this directive in the first half of this year. The important point here is that once this directive is transposed into the national legal space of all Member States, all of their media spaces can be interpreted and regulated on a uniform basis. This gives Estonia the opportunity: if media channels located outside Estonia, Estonian society, share information here that encourages hatred and hatred on the grounds set out in this directive and is not in any way compatible with ensuring the security and stability of Estonian society, then Estonia will be able to contact a service provider located outside Estonia and start infringement proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U558	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U559	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. I'll ask you again. You said that once all countries have adopted this directive, we will have, like, one common standard for the whole of Europe. Are you sure this is good? Perhaps an angry Greek or Bulgarian is much more passionate about something than a Nordic person, an Estonian or a Finn who, angry at something, just goes behind the sauna and punches the wall and is on his own. The peculiarities of behaviour and temperament arising from these cultural differences, so perhaps it is not reasonable to strike the whole of the European Union with one rod and measure it with a single ruler.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U560	Thank you. I think that the fact that the European Union's cultural space is so different enriches us all. It is certainly important to adopt this directive in order to protect this cultural space. It certainly does not violate the cultural space, but it gives everyone the opportunity to express themselves safely and to protect us from being abused by anyone, but also to take responsibility for their freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U561	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U562	Thank you. Minister, you were so diplomatic in your language, I understand you. But I'm trying to put it in plain terms, and maybe you can confirm if I understood your answer to my question correctly. As a result of the fact that we have an Eastern neighbour, whose propaganda channels often register [self elsewhere], in the old days they regularly registered in London somewhere in a mailbox, and are transmitting a program that is controlled against us from a non-friendly country, we have a serious problem today with how we can regulate the content they are transmitting. It is for the sake of such situations that we are talking about incitement to hatred and hatred, not any other theoretical cases. This is why Estonia, like our fellow minds, needs to enforce this directive. This will give us much better protection against a possible propaganda attack. Not to mention that...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U563	Honourable questioner! I'm so sorry, but your time is up. Please, Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U564	Thank you very much for this question and for the clarification. I guess the honourable questioner wasn't here when I explained it in one of the answers. Those countries which are not members of the European Union and who may be interested in Estonia in the spread of media channels in our society that are not friendly to us and that are not registered in the European Union, this directive gives Estonia the opportunity to intervene and start proceedings against these channels. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U565	Minister, thank you. There are a few more questions for you, however, but my thanks are sincere. Let's go ahead. There's at least one more question. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U566	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Anneli, in my opinion, freedom of expression on the Internet and social media is a fundamental right with an extremely important protected area. My question is that yes, in Europe, regulation of media services should be discussed, but I think it should be in the opposite direction: how to prevent the selective censorship and freedom of expression of platform owners. That's a problem to deal with. Why is this bill lacking the principles and clauses of the area of freedom of expression that protect people in media services? It is obvious that European countries must also cooperate in this area, because these corporations have a global impact and are out of the reach of our law. Anneli, let's get this thing done. Let's not do the wrong thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U567	Thank you for this proposal. Media platforms have owners and owners are also representatives of certain beliefs. Anyone who takes advantage of the opportunity provided by the media platform to convey his or her message in society must take into account that the other part of freedom of expression is a responsibility. But the choice of what is a possible channel in the sense of the owner, I'm talking about smaller media, there's definitely a greater influence on the owner. When we talk about large platforms like YouTube, it is often consumers who create this content in these channels, and it is often no longer possible to apply this distinction. The honourable Riigikogu is able to discuss these issues within the framework of the draft law. All relevant changes to this current draft law are directly related to the transposition of the Directive and related amendments. Good practice provides that no other changes will be made to the draft law when transposing the Directive. However, honourable members of the Riigikogu can always express their opinions here and make these changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U568	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U569	[[Remote connection]] I think there are a number of things in this draft that are reasonable, but this Brezhnev package, which is actually about introducing certain mental control on extremely vague grounds, is not okay. But my question to you is which is the most important value. You said that the directive deals with 'free speech control', but does not deal with the protection of freedom of expression concerning global corporations. Which, in your opinion, is more important, is it to protect or control freedom of expression in social media? Unfortunately, this text presented by the government does not speak for a cent of protection.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U570	Thank you. Freedom of expression is not a question of this directive. This is a matter of incitement to hatred and violence. And freedom of expression is not an endless freedom; it also has another side, and it is a responsibility. I really believe that everyone understands that this [responsibility] is equal to freedom. It is extremely important that we all have the opportunity to express ourselves freely, but we must all also have a responsibility to society, so that this freedom of expression does not incite hatred or hatred in society and that we all have a secure society.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U571	Thank you, Minister. Let's keep going. A procedural question, Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U572	[[Remote connection]] I have a procedural remark to the President of the Riigikogu that we are saying that everyone has to be held accountable, and in the logic of Parliament, it is indeed the case that there must be no liability-free space. Consequently, my question to the Chairman of the Riigikogu is that how are the global corporations responsible for removing material on a relatively subjective basis, or also the pan-European corporations that are going to dispose of material? How will their responsibility be realised in the Estonian legal environment? It's actually a core issue. Responsibility and rights must be balanced. But how are they balanced in such a model if that part of the protection of freedom in this bill is not in my opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U573	Thank you. But I do not consider this question to be a procedural question, but certainly a substantive one. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U574	[[Remote connection]] Yes, thank you! I don't have a procedural question. I was listening, good Anneli, to your answer. [It was] great, but there was no desire to ask. I'm asking if you believe what you're saying. Urmas rightly said that it was one of Brezhnev's packages, who still remembers who was Brezhnev. Haven't you thought about cleaning out Brezhnev's package of "Little Land" that's in there? [Without it] this bill is quite okay. Have you not discussed in your group that maybe you should pick up and clean this Brezhnev package?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U575	Thank you. The honourable Riigikogu and all the political groups will certainly be able to discuss the points set out in this draft and to deal with it accordingly and make further proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U576	Mart Helme, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U577	Yes, Mr President-in-Office, I do have a procedural question. Do we now have in the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia that all these discussions are meant to release pro forma steam and the tank is going over and, in fact, the debate that we have held here for several hours does not make any sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U578	Thank you. I am convinced that all debates have an idea in the Riigikogu, including Bill 327. We're at first reading, and we know that if this bill goes on from here, we're gonna need a second and a third reading. So I'm sure there's a point. What I ask of myself and my colleagues is that we hold the Estonian language. This is not about the last procedural question at all, but sometimes this is where the "okay" came through. We keep the Estonian language clean, I think it is important. Now, Minister, thank you. No further questions for you. Thank you. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Deputy Chairman of the Committee on Culture Jaak Valge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U579	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, All right, technical personnel! I am, of course, strongly opposed to this draft being approved here at first reading, because it devalues Parliament's role and restricts freedom of expression. But as a representative of the lead committee, I am invited here and set to be in a different role and I will try to give the most objective overview possible of the proceedings that have taken place in the Commission. But I can't just refer to it purely because of a lack of time. This draft was discussed in the Committee on Culture at four meetings and together, I think, about three hours. This time in itself probably reflects the fact that these discussions were not easy. On the other hand, I am happy to say that these were very substantive and passionate discussions, but still polite. The lion's share of this debate, i.e. 90% to 95%, included this part, one of which was the ministers, namely the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Education and Science, and the whole force of officials and, on the other hand, mainly the members of the EKRE. Other members of the Committee on Culture also took part in the debate, but I simply cannot refer all their answers and questions. Of course, I do not refer to all the topics of the EKRE members either. And not because I want to cancel something, but within the time available, I only refer to what remained in the focus of the discussion or the eye of the storm, as they say, or which formed the point of gravity. I also deviate from the chronological principle that you, as a historian, could rightly expect from me. I would like to say that if the same subject was a speech at several meetings, I will deal with them together. But I certainly do not deviate from the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, according to which there will be discussion of general principles at first reading of the draft, and I will reflect that. In a lack of time, I shall cancel the usual part of the conductor's presentation and not begin to list all the officials and other people who have participated in these meetings. I think it'll take a good few minutes. I'm just focusing on substantive issues. I look, on the basis of my academic experience, at the fact that there is still little time, and I ask, knowing that the practice has actually been rather reticent, but still, referring to § 67 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, according to which the President of the sitting may, in agreement with the rapporteur, extend the time for the presentation: would the President agree to give me a few more minutes if necessary?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U580	I will definitely follow our Home and Working Procedures Act, there is § 67. Honourable Member of the Riigikogu Jaak Valge, if you see that there is really no important information in this 20 minute period, then we will come back to this question after that time, and I believe that we will find a solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U581	Good, that's very nice to hear! Let's get the bull on the horn. The substantive debate started on 9 March. First of all, Minister of Culture Anneli Ott explained the purpose of the draft, and one of the authors of the draft, Siim Rohtla, audiovisual adviser to the Ministry of Culture, presented to the Commission the main amendments to the draft and the aim of the directive. I pointed out that, according to § 19 (1) of the bill, no form of incitement to violence or hatred on grounds of sex, race, colour, ethnic or social origin, genetic characteristics, language, religion or belief, etc., and asked why the list was still such. It says "genetic properties," but it also contains a number of genetic properties, such as sex, race, and skin color. The second question was whether, when providing media services, the programmes could incite violence according to all the characteristics not mentioned in Paragraph 19 (1). Karin Ligi, co-author of the bill, Legal Adviser to the Ministry of Culture, replied that sex, skin colour and race are really genetic traits, but the list in paragraph 1 comes from the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, which also contains such a list. On that point, I remained firm, and I concluded that all other features of this bill could inspire as much anger as it takes. Moreover, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union [used] has the word "including" and only then will the list of characteristics be included. This means that the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union prohibits incitement to hatred on the above-mentioned features [with clarification of "including"], but the draft contains only a closed list. The debate on the same subject continued on 15 March when I referred to a directive that had to be transposed and that had to take into account Article 21 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union or its basis. I asked whether the list in the Article of the Charter was correctly dealt with if the draft contained only certain features. I said that there is a very large difference between the prohibition of incitement to hatred, discrimination, etc., on the basis of the features listed or, among other things, on the basis of those features. Karin Ligi acknowledged the existence of this difference, but stated that it was based on what was known to be the purpose of this specific provision in the formulation of the directive. I said that it was not stated in the closed list that incitement of hatred, for example by profession or residence or by any other feature, would be prohibited, and I asked whether hatred should be incited against all historians living in Tartu. Peeter Sookruus, Media Services Advisor to the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Board, now intervened and replied that the negotiations and trilogues on the renewal of the directive had this as a subject of heated debates and that there was a reference to Article 21 of the Charter. I said again that it would not be understood why Article 21 of the Charter has not been fully and essentially transposed, so that the draft would also have a formulation "including on the basis of the features listed." Mr Helme asked how the regulation of media services concerns the European Union's competence. According to subsidiarity, this is not a matter for the European Union. Karin Ligi replied that media services had a cross-border character, and Peeter Sookruus added that culture, as such, is a specific regulation within the competence of the Member States, but media and content services are largely linked to the functioning of the internal market. He added that Estonia has been directly involved in the process of drafting the directive, and all the views of the draft have been discussed and approved in depth and under the direction of several governments. He also confirmed that the draft had broad support. Mr Helme said that the draft law clearly deals with regulating the content of the media, which is contrary to the Constitution. Freedom of expression is a fundamental value of the Estonian Constitution. Mr Sookrus argued against the fact that the draft was not a restriction on freedom of expression. All [these standards] have worked for more than 20 years and there is no example in Estonia of restricting freedom of expression or interfering with media freedom and the free movement of information. There is nothing new, Sookruus confirmed, except that the bases of hate speech are slightly expanding. At present, our law only contains a ban on incitement to hatred, but now there is also a ban on incitement to violence and terrorist acts. According to him, this would enable social stability to be better ensured. These standards have been in place for over 20 years, worked smoothly, and no one can bring out any conflict. Martin Helme asked why a new law is needed in this case, if Estonian law has all the standards and Estonia has also ratified the European Convention on cross-border television. Karin Ligi replied that when transposing the directive, it was an obligation to indicate in which national rules the provisions of the directive are in question. The provision, which corresponds exactly to the specific provision of the directive, does not currently exist in Estonian law, Karin Ligi claimed. In Estonia, these principles are derived from several international treaties and even the constitutions, but the precepts cannot be made on their basis. If Estonia wants to prevent real incitement to violence and hatred, there must be a legal basis for this. Mr Helme said that the draft law provides a list of what is discrimination, but it is a loose wording and it is impossible to say what is actually prohibited. I, too, have now said that Peter Sookruus claims that the draft does not concern freedom of expression, and I referred to its author, Siim Rohtla, who had said on 15 February in the "Actual Camera" that the Media Services Act certainly restricts freedom of expression, but it is done for a better and safer society. I asked whether, in the opinion of the advocates of the bill, freedom of expression was restricted or still not restricted. Peter Sootruus reiterated that for more than 20 years these standards have generally worked in this area and there have been no problems. Mr Helme said that the main problem is that some people somewhere decide whether or not there is freedom of expression. The directive says that Member States must transpose it and impose restrictions. This is a law that muzzles the media. He asked how this procedure is conducted and what sanctions are, for example, when Estonian Radio is complaining about Finland or Sweden, and what happens if Estonia does not impose sanctions. Karin Ligi confirmed that the bill certainly does not violate freedom of expression. Censorship is prohibited by the Constitution and no censorship will be introduced. It is not true that other countries can and must complain. Mr Helme expressed the opinion that it was the discretion of an official to open proceedings, which is the penalty procedure. Peter Sookrus replied that all regulation on cross-border services was based on one central principle, the country of origin principle. On 15 March, the same topic was continued and Martin Helme asked what supervisory practices were. Peter Sookrus replied that there had been no case that could be classified as a violation of the ban on incitement to hatred or of the ban on hate speech. All media service providers have developed software to date. These systems work well and there is no more violation. Mr Helme replied that discrimination and incitement to hatred were not so easily measured and not solved by computer software. Helme asked who these people are and what will be their working rules on the basis of which possible discrimination against someone will be measured. Peter Sookrus replied that there were no new issues, only that the ban on incitement to hatred was added to the ban on incitement to violence and terrorist acts. But news and opinion portals Lens and New News as a whole probably will not fall within the scope of the Media Services Act. I guess I won't. The draft concerns, in particular, audiovisual media, claimed by Sookruus. Mr Helme pointed out that the TTJA did not have the competence to deal with the process of monitoring discrimination or incitement to hatred and asked how the TTJA would deal with this monitoring. Peter Sookruus replied that TTJA, formerly also the Ministry of Culture, was the competent authority to deal with it, but there have been no cases so far. Martin Helme asked what would happen if there was a violation of the law. What's this procedure going to look like? Peter Sookrus replied that in the event of an infringement, TTJA would initiate the procedure, examine the situation and assess the situation. Sanctions already exist in the current law and there are no fundamental changes to be made. The Director-General of TTJA Kaur Kajak explained that the media regulator in Estonia is led by Peeter Sookruus, and there are also the head of the Communication Department and two practitioners. If someone gives a hint to the Agency or the Agency itself discovers an infringement, the complaint shall be examined and interviews conducted, which may last for months. Kaur Kajak added that there are 17 and 27 people working at the Latvian and Lithuanian regulatory authorities, and there are only three people in the Estonian institution. Martin Helme now asked what were the sanctions, and Kaur Kayak replied that this was an administrative sentence. The maximum amount of the penalty shall be EUR 32000. Another option is to prohibit the transmission of a broadcast by precept and this depends on the circumstances. Helme asked if TTJA could take away the entire channel pass. Peter Sookrus replied that it would also be possible to conclude that the authorisation would be suspended or revoked. Kaur Kayak added that the TTJA has not yet reached the application of the administrative order. I asked where Estonian society has this problem, which this new legislation wants to solve and which could not be solved under the current law. Helme asked for clarification of those institutions and topics which were not covered by the current law, but are now [on the basis of this draft law] to be included. Karin Ligi replied that there were many changes to the bill. Their aim is to bring Estonia's legal space into line with the changed market conditions. I asked whether, in the meantime, Estonia's media literacy has become worse or whether there has been a problem of incitement to anger on video-sharing portals, which has not been the case so far. Karin Ligi replied that the issue of media literacy is becoming more and more important and that there have been no extreme cases in Estonia according to previous practice does not mean that they cannot come in the future. Mr Helme pointed out that the new law requires a more explicit and verifiable ownership structure. He asked what it wanted. Karin Ligi replied that this specific provision in the directive was voluntary. The requirement for audiovisual media service providers to disclose their ownership structure was not an obligation, but was the will of the previous Minister. Martin Helme asked what ownership structure meant in the first place, and Karin Ligi replied that this means the same data that is now published in the business register, but in the future they would become more easily accessible to those who wish. Now I'm getting to the end. On 22 March, the main topic of media literacy was continued. But already at the meeting on 9 March, I had pointed out that, in relation to the draft, media literacy must be promoted in Estonia, which in turn gives TTJA the role of seeing how the Ministry promotes media literacy. On 9 March, I asked how concerns about media literacy could mean that citizens are taught to prefer certain ideologies instead of source criticism. Karin Ligi stated that it is not true that TTJA can control the role of how the Ministry of Education and Research promotes media literacy. One public authority does not supervise the other. Peeter Sookruus confirmed that the role of double oversight of the Ministry of Education and Research is not and will not be exercised. But TTJA and the Ministry of Education and Research have a busy contact about school programs, how to use the media critically and how to make choices yourself. I referred to the chapter on "Promotion of Media Competence" in the draft, which specifically states that compliance with the requirements of this Act and the legislation established on the basis thereof will be subject to national supervision by the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority. According to Karin Ligi, the fact that one administration does not supervise the other administration is a result of other laws. On 22 March, I pointed out the statistics on monitoring media coverage, which proved that Estonian Public Broadcasting is very strongly out of balance with regard to the attitudes of society, and asked the Minister of Education and Research how the Ministry ensures that training in media literacy does not turn into ideological brainwashing in these circumstances.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U582	Mr. White, we need to have a conversation with you. You wanted to know at the beginning of your speech whether it was possible to extend [the time provided]. As you have said, four times, I understand, the lead committee has discussed this issue, and I said that we will find a solution. How much time do you want?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U583	Well, I guess about three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U584	All right, you have three minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U585	Thank you. Lina Kersna, Minister of Education and Science, replied that developing media literacy does not guide people in one direction or another, but gives people the freedom to make informed choices. According to Liina Kersna, the draft law obliges the Ministry of Education and Research to submit to the European Commission the report on the promotion of media literacy mentioned in the Audiovisual Media Services Directive. He said that it is not currently known what this report will be, but the European Commission is developing guidelines for media literacy. Only the first discussions have taken place in the Ministry on how to put together this strategy for media literacy. I said that how can the Committee on Culture approve a draft which lacks knowledge of the content of a part of it? Helle-Moonika Helme asked how independently the HTM could start to develop a strategy if the European Commission was to develop guidelines for media literacy. Liina Kersna replied that there is a common understanding in Europe of what media literacy means, which is resource criticality, the ability to separate important irrelevant information from false information, so that big differences cannot arise. Let's just say that about the same spirit this discussion went on at this meeting. I'm gonna make a quick end right now. The chairman, Aadu Must, proposed that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 7 April, i.e. today, and that the first reading be closed. There was a vote: 8 members of the Commission supported the proposal to conclude the first reading, and I and Helle-Moonika Helme opposed. Thank you for your attention. I think I did it in 23 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U586	Yeah, you did it in 22 minutes, didn't even come full. So thank you! But there are also questions for you. I think you're kind enough to answer them. Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U587	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for the floor. Dear waitress, We have been debating here for quite a few hours and we have used a lot of terms, such as "violence" and "hate." I don't always understand the contents of these terms. We have also talked about the Charter of Fundamental Rights and the directive to be transposed. I looked at this Charter and these other documents, it has [used terms such as] 'freedom of speech', 'freedom of information', 'exchange of information', 'discrimination', 'job law','social exclusion', 'poverty', 'right to petition', 'presumption of innocence' and many others, but not the terms 'violence' and 'hate'. Here's my question. We have so many laws, both those that help and those that interfere with normal life. As a highly experienced historian, a well-knowing, broad-minded person, do not be good and tell me what the content of this bill might be. Would he be more helpful or distracting in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U588	Thank you for your question. First of all, I say that I hope very much that, in this form, this bill will not become a law at all. But in case it really does, I'm afraid I'm gonna have to respond in such a way that it would be rather confusing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U589	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U590	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Jack! Have you read the directive that this bill has been put together to transpose? If so, can it also be taken over in such a way that the major and important problems we have been talking about here all this time do not arise?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U591	Thanks, Leo! Vladimir Žirinovsky once said such a classic sentence that my father was a lawyer, but my mother was a simple Russian. I am not a lawyer, I am such a simple historian, but I have looked at the directive. In fact, it is not a question of whether or not to transpose this directive [and, if so, in exactly the form that it has been presented to us], that we either transpose it as it currently stands or reject it. In fact, the third option is how to transpose the directive. In that sense, it was a very precise question. My answer is that, yes, we can also transpose this directive without problems. Two articles on the ban on incitement to hatred have been discussed in the directive, and it is not required anywhere that the part of society should be transposed into Estonian law in the same way as it has now been done, placing some groups of society at the top of others.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U592	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U593	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Here they have referred to the fact that all the positions of the draft have been thoroughly discussed and approved under the leadership of several governments. Has the previous government approved the bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U594	Thank you, Uno! The answer is specific: no, no. This bill was prepared at the Ministry of Culture, but not approved by the previous government. If the government had approved it, this bill would have come to the table. But then the EKRE was opposed and I would point out that the then Minister of Culture, Tõnis Lukas, has also said in February this year that there is a certain risk of freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U595	Thank you. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U596	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, I have a question for you as a historian. I have read this directive on the basis of which this action is now taking place, and I have also seen a provision referring to history there. That really worried me. Perhaps, on the basis of such a provision, we should not be forced on the right approach to history? How dangerous can it be in the eyes of an official of the TTY if we begin to diminish the Red Army's achievements? Did you notice such a moment of history censorship?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U597	Well, there's been a censorship in history in one form, though. Let's just say that nowhere, even in authoritarian countries, as far as I know, has it been the case that the constitution has been fixed, that we have censorship, that we have no freedom of expression. They don't do it like that anywhere. You see, even in the Constitution of the Estonian SSR (1978) it is stated that freedom of expression exists. So the authors of the bill claim that freedom of expression is not violated because we have it in the Constitution, frankly, nothing is costing. I will give another example: the authoritarian Estonian Constitution of 1938 clearly states that there is no censorship, yet there was [censorship] and there was no freedom of expression. So, yes, let's just say that if you answer as a historian, you have to be very careful about these issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U598	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U599	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. The historical digression is actually the right comparison, and the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority is increasingly starting to recall the state propaganda service according to this new draft. But we've had it in our lives both during the Russian occupation and during the Päts's solitary government, we'll still survive. But I am concerned about this very statement by Peter Sookruus that publications such as the Lens and New News are not affected by this new directive. I think that's what this is about. I think that freedom of expression has been put at extremely serious risk. Did the Commission also mention that under the so-called incitement to hatred and the sign of hostile propaganda it is theoretically possible to stop broadcasting all Russian television channels by Estonian Telekom companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U600	Thank you. As I recall, this was not mentioned in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U601	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U602	Thank you. As I recall, they said it wouldn't help. But I have a question that I also asked the Minister, but I did not get a good answer. I tried, during the Commission's discussions, to get some idea of how this supervision will work, who are the people who are the instructions for their work on which they are responding. And this is how I understood in the Commission that most of the TTJA officials will react to complaints, including complaints from across borders. It was also a question of how he would punish or how he would regulate these great Internet giants. I'd still come back to the subject, see if I could get an answer to that. What are the standards by which two officials, as we have been told here, will decide when or when censorship is not to be applied?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U603	Thank you. Perhaps the Russian media was spoken of once, but in this case so briefly that it was excluded from the focus. And the minutes of these discussions are really a bunch of paperwork, maybe I missed that part. But I have to answer that question in the same way, that we did not get a clear answer in the Commission. We tried to see if it would be possible to clarify the definition of hate speech and what rules this media regulator should have and why it should be TTJA. But yes, we didn't get a clear picture of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U604	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U605	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Jack! From history, since you're a historian. Do history know how to say, the approaches that we are now making this amendment and the law, that it has caused problems for some countries or that it has limited any freedoms? Karin Ligi confirmed that the draft does not violate freedom of expression and that censorship is prohibited under the Constitution, etc., we are talking a lot about censorship here. But how has it been in authoritarian countries, such as the Soviet Union and Päts, since the coup? In these countries it was also fair to say that there is no restriction of freedom of expression, censorship is not applied. How do you see it as a historian?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U606	Yes, isn't that the answer, if we define countries according to whether or not their constitution provides for freedom of expression, I suppose that about 95% of the countries would be democratic in this sense and mostly all authoritarian countries should actually be defined as democratic. In itself, these slogand declarations in constitutions or wherever they may mean nothing. Freedom of expression and democracy can be restricted in many ways. We are used to having a coup d'état, and then it is like [once] all the screws are closed, but it is actually possible to do so gradually. Perhaps our own authoritarian regime in the 1930s did so relatively quickly, but still in about half a year. So the answer is that there are some and there are other cases. Surely we must be on guard for freedom of expression at all times. Even if there is no coup, however, we must consider every step that goes towards restricting freedom of expression very carefully.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U607	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U608	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good waitress! Paragraph 19 of [Current Media Services Act] already states that anger must not be incited on the grounds of sex, race, ethnicity, beliefs or religion. Now it also wants to graft skin color, which is also related to race in a certain way, and sexual orientation and social origin. And if we don't, we're gonna be threatened by an infringement procedure, a fine. My question to you is this: if we don't stick skin colour and sexual orientation (are you gay or someone else) or social origin (are you a millionaire or a poor son) to this § 19, how many euros do we have to pay a fine to Brussels? I'd consider those options.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U609	Thank you, Peter! Actually, I'm going to distract you a little bit. I will reply in this way that, in fact, we do not have to transpose this directive in this way at all. We can transpose this directive intelligently, not by restricting freedom of expression and paying the fine.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U610	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U611	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Good Jack! I listened to this debate here, I went away for a moment, I came back and I thought you were going to speak with the EKRE Group. But then it turns out you're a Commission waitress. As a historian, you know that if, in years' time, historians start to think about the Commission's sense of mind that you, as a Commission waitress, are supposed to reflect in this Chamber, they are likely to be very confused, because I do not hear the Commission's mind about your presentation. Please, Jaak, tell us with a few sentences what the Commission's attitude towards this bill was. I understood from the results of the vote that two were against, and everyone else was in favour of this bill. What was the spirit of this committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U612	Thank you, Kalvi! As I said before, I am trying to reflect the Commission's discussions as objectively as possible, and I believe that I have done so. In expressing the Commission's spirit, I said that the main discussion was between the members of the EKRE and the officials and ministers. The rest of the committee rarely spoke up. As for, Kalvi, your complaint that I am speaking in the EKRE Group now, I will certainly not do so. I will answer the questions, but if the questions are asked in such a way that I, as a historian, or my personal opinion, will be asked, then I cannot answer on behalf of the Commission. But on behalf of the EKRE Group, I hope that I will have a speech after a while.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U613	Henn Põllamaas!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U614	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress, representative of the Commission. We already have criminalised incitement to hatred and hatred, it is forbidden. It also turned out from the Minister's speech that we actually do not have any problems with this. So, essentially, there is no need for this bill or law entirely. But it seems to me that there are some old tendencies and new ones in this concept of hate speech. I would like to ask you, as a historian, where did the concept of hate speech on which this bill is based begin? It seems to me that behind it there are some sort of Marxist roots and ears. Am I on the right track? What real purpose does this law or bill have?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U615	Thank you for that question. Whether or not he has Marxist roots depends in fact on whether or not we consider the regime of the Soviet Union to be based on Marxist ideology. Indeed, this concept of hate speech and discrimination dates from the Soviet Union, already in Stalin's time. Soviet leaders, yes, themselves claimed that they were relying on Marxist ideology, but modern historians are arguing about it, and perhaps social scientists are also arguing about whether the Soviet regime was so Marxist. But the origin of the concept of hate speech is also a very clear article on the weather network; it is an article by Chris Berg, the political director of the Melbourne Institute of Public Relations. Anyone can watch it, it's on the website of this institute. The author describes how the Soviet Union tried to introduce this concept as early as the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights in 1948, but then failed. It was tried to push in precisely to nullify freedom of expression. During Stalin's time, this failed, but in 1966, when Brezhnev was in power, it succeeded in introducing the UN Covenant on Civil and Political Rights into the International Covenant. The conclusion is that, in any case, the [concept], how to say, birth was not aimed at the release of minorities, as today's human rights activists claim, who say hate speech is good for minorities to feel better, but in fact it was born to control the democrats.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U616	Procedural question, Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U617	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President of the sitting. I have a question, really. Do you think that the Commission rapporteur should speak what was said in the Commission and respond as a representative of the Commission, not as it has now shown that according to education, he can be asked as a historian? Next comes ichthyologists, meliorators and architects. Please answer this. Should we talk about what was said in the Commission or according to our education?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U618	The representative of the Commission must speak what has been said in the Commission, as has been the case. Mr. White is trying to do it in the best possible way. The way someone asks or calls him is the decision of a member of the Riigikogu. Of course, the representative of the Commission must describe what happened in the Commission. Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U619	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I attended a meeting of the Committee on Culture where this topic was discussed and went straight to the vote. I ask you, as a representative of the Commission, how it was with the staged aspects, you did not really touch on this issue. We all understand the meaning of incitement to anger when it is done directly and with conviction. But in the case of [what to do] works? For example, William Shakespeare has written a play where a black man, angry, jealous, strangles a white woman and, depending on how it is staged, can eventually be interpreted as incitement to anger. Was it also the subject of how this law will affect us as theatre makers or film directors?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U620	Now I must respond well in concrete terms, after all, we must not depart from [the Commission]. I would be happy to talk about my opinion, but I have to reflect the Commission's discussion, and unfortunately I do not recall that there was a culture of cancellation or, more specifically, of nullity.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U621	A procedural question. Henn Põllamaas!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U622	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I would like to clarify the Commission's rapporteur's answers and what he has to do. He must indeed report what happened in the Commission, what was asked there and what was answered there, and Jaak White did so in a completely objective and exhaustive manner. But if he is asked questions about his mind in one matter or another, he has every right to answer those questions. It is not prohibited anywhere, according to our Home and Working Procedures Act it is perfectly acceptable. So in this respect, I think all these reproaches and resentments are completely out of place here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U623	Thank you. Let's get on with the questions. Martin Repinski!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U624	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! You have spoken quite a lot about your personal opinion on this subject, but I still have not fully understood your way of thinking on this issue, and I am therefore asking from a specific example. What do you think if someone calls one quarter of the people living in Estonia parasites chicks, is it normal or how to view it? Do you think it should be followed by specific criminal proceedings and punishment or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U625	If you ask me, my answer is no. It is a question of language; it should not be regulated by hate speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U626	Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U627	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! I was moved to ask for the speech by my colleague, Henn Põllea, when he said that the Minister's speech gave the impression that everything was fine in Estonia, there was no hate speech and there was nothing to change. I did not get that impression from the Minister's speech. I would like to ask whether the Commission has taken any decision or whether it came to the conclusion that everything is 100% good in Estonia and no hate speech we have and there is no need to change anything, or whether the Commission has concluded that something needs to be changed, and that is why we have before us today the draft that we are discussing. What was the Commission's position? I am not asking anyone else's interpretations, but what was the Commission's summary of this draft and whether it was concluded that there was no hate speech in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U628	Thank you. This was not the case with the Commission. The Commission did not ask whether or not something needs to be changed. The Commission decided by a majority to send the draft to its first reading. As far as the Commission was concerned, and as far as I am referring, as I said before, officials generally replied that we really do not have any problems. Or let's just say that at least this conclusion came out of their replies that no penalties have been imposed so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U629	Alar Laneman, please! [[No sound.]] Dear Alar Laneman, you are not to be heard. We got [the problem solved] during the day both when you hear that you're gonna shut down your Chrome for a second and then open it again. Could you go through this little procedure? [[No sound.]] Mr. Laneman, you are not to be heard. I propose that I give the floor to Martin Repinski now, and then we come back to Mr Laneman. I hope you can hear me now, Mr. Laneman. I have a request that maybe you can shut down your Chrome for a second and then open it again. I believe there will be a connection, and your voice will be heard as well, that is not the case at the moment. Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U630	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable waitress! I'd say there's a problem. I think we're looking at this differently. I, for example, believe that, in this case, as I said earlier about these paralyzing chicks, criminal proceedings and punishment should follow. I want to ask you, as a historian, that as your historian, you really should know that such things have been the source of real problems in specific countries and that incitement to hatred of particular races or nations has created the greatest kind of trouble, let's say that. Could you give examples of this, or do you feel that this has never happened?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U631	Thank you. I really have to say that I do not know that there would have been a specific causal link between saying someone and a specific crime in Estonia. This is likely to be possible in other countries. But as a historian, I am happy to say that the identification of chains of such causal links is a very complicated matter at all, and I would not simplify it. Knowing that there have been no such cases in Estonia and that we are living in the Estonian cultural space, I do not see at first any need to go ahead and tighten our regulations. As a result, there may be an unnecessary climate of fear, where people no longer know what they are allowed to say and what they are not allowed to say. The problem is that the definition of hate speech is self-dispersive.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U632	Thank you. I'll do another test. Member of the Riigikogu Alar Laneman, please! Let's try to get back in touch with you. Alar Laneman, please turn on your wish to speak. Please, a word and a microphone for Alar Laneman!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U633	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Was there any such broader but more serious connection in the Commission that this is the beginning of a path with such a sad ending? Censorship. In the meantime, other restrictions on rights, internal weakening of the state and alienation of the citizenry from the country will come, and it will often ultimately result in the disappearance of the state. Is that what the Commission was talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U634	Thank you. This was not specifically mentioned in the Commission, as far as I can remember. But I suppose at least some of the members of the Commission thought about it, including myself, that the restriction of freedom of expression may not actually be so that before we could talk about everything, and now all the screws are closed. The restriction of freedom of expression is just the way it is now being done, gradually.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U635	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U636	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! You have finally reached the heart of the question in your last two answers, which you gave to a good colleague, Martin Repinski and me. You yourself said that the question is not that there are no problems with this in Estonia, but, I quote, you said that no one has been punished. The reason is that there is a provision in the Penal Code which states that [punishment] must be identified as a direct threat to life. But it hasn't been identified, and here's the point. Now I have a question for you: if someone would say that politicians from the EKRE Riigikogu should be burned alive, would it be hate speech or not? I think it is hate speech, and those who say it should be put in prison. What's your opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U637	My opinion is that if you mean it, you are a very rude and brutal person. But I know you don't mean that. And I continue to think that this is not a place where strengthening the regulation of hate speech, at least not in the form that has been done in this draft, would help to improve our courtesy and ethics in any way. This may affect the opposite, people may start talking more harshly at home, and then anecdotes and so on will begin to spread.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U638	Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U639	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You replied specifically that you did not discuss the rejection or prohibition of any text or performance. But did the previous times, when I was not present, mention the freedom of creation or its siege? Did you talk about how it might start to suppress the handwriting of one director or director?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U640	Again, it seems to me that there was no separate discussion of this in the Commission, and once again I say in front of this sentence that no one would say that I am not reflecting the debate in the Commission. However, it is clear in itself that if the content offered by media platforms is regulated in essence, it will certainly limit any kind of creation. No doubt about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U641	Dear waitress, there are no more questions for you. Let's open the negotiations. The first word will be Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U642	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, There is a lot of positive in this bill. Nevertheless, on behalf of the Isamaa Group, I categorically oppose its adoption and propose that it be rejected. I don't want to start whacking. Indeed, there are many pros involved in its adoption. The Minister has repeatedly said that we will be at the same time as the European Union, I do not know, in the room, in the same step, etc. But good intentions may not produce good results. With regard to the rule of law, it is very important that when we adopt some kind of legal regulation, we consider and promote not the good that it can bring, but look at the dangers that its adoption may bring with it. And there's a lot of danger, they're real. I am not going to repeat them here, from here on my side, from the right part of the hall, they have already been expressed today. These are real threats, there's nothing to say here. If we look at these pros and cons, I am convinced that this law will not solve any serious problems in Estonian society, but will bring new threats and uncertainty. I also promise me a historical remark. At the top of the French revolution terror was such a practice that when a group of people were sent under the guillotine, sometimes they were called a set. There may have been a German spy, an enemy of the people, a prostitute, a speculator, a priest or anyone, but in any case there was an enemy of the people, he must have been inside. Now, if we're going to read this [tabled in the draft] set, there's a lot of horrible things here. Racism. Well, who's in favour of racism? Of course, a good person is not in favour of racism. Racism, skin colour, etc. But then, like the other, convictions and political and other opinions have been introduced. This could be to say that it can be applied to other opinions, since all opinions are, at the same time, other opinions. Here the question was asked who would decide, and the minister's answer was that [decisive] competent people, we have the rule of law, etc. That's not the rule of law. The rule of law knows exactly who's doing what. And if we have the freedom of expression and the lack of censorship enshrined in the Constitution, they must also be guaranteed by other laws. We cannot do what was done in the Soviet Union, which has already been mentioned several times. In the last constitution of Brezhnev, there was a special heading on freedom of expression [and it was said that] criticism should not be punished. But what did we see? There was no freedom of expression and criticism was punished because there were other laws. We must not undermine the freedom of expression that is usually at the forefront of human rights. I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U643	Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U644	What are the dangers here? Anger speech and a call for violence have been equated with other acts of speech. That's the main threat. And when it is said that in the European Union it does not in any way hinder freedom of expression, on the contrary, I say that it does very much. There are examples from the wall to the wall. The main danger is what is actually fixed that does not look at the purpose of a person's speech. If he's using an n-word, for example, it's already a hate speech, even if he says that the n-word can't be used, because it's hate speech. We see how people and channels are punished for this. We have been reassured that Estonia is the rule of law and that all matters can be settled here in court. Well, that's great! During the election campaign, you say something, for example, about your opponents, but it is interpreted as hate speech and the channel is shut down. After the elections, however, the court decides that this really did not have to be done. Yeah. That's not good enough. What's the content here? I quote American publicist and writer Glenn Greenwald: it is a culture of cancellation at national level. It's not just Internet bullying. When the channels are shut down, you're canceled. It's not just protecting someone. I'll finish with a classic quote. We understand perfectly well why the EKRE members were so excited here. When we look at the Estonian media, EKRE is usually mentioned as the subject of hate speech and as the object of hate speech. If an EKRE member says something, it can be qualified as hate speech. But while we're looking at their own social media, it's always that the president said something, and that's hate speech. It's such a culture of offense, of offense and insult. It's not society-wide. On one occasion, when the President had said something about the EKRE and after that, the EKRE criticised him, the President came here with a sweatshirt written "The Word Is Free." We support the President that the word must be free. It has been said that [if we do not approve this draft] we will remain alone with Romania, but it turned out that not only with Romania, there are still a number of countries. But then, if we stand up for the right thing and oppose the wrong thing, we can also be with Romania or even alone, it doesn't matter. What matters is whether we are in favour of the right or the wrong thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U645	Next, please, Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U646	[[Remote connection]] Ladies and gentlemen, The directive that we are talking about received quite a lot of criticism in this Chamber and, above all, in the round of questions. The criticism was, on the one hand, that the substance of the directive is already within our laws, so there would be no law like that. And on the other hand, it was just as confident of the fears that we would join something very ugly, something that would change our lives and that we would have no control over. Our discussion also asked about the experience of other countries, and we were again and again compared with which country? With the country we come from, the Soviet Union. I have also looked at the experience of other countries, and it turns out that there are other countries besides the Soviet Union, the experience of which could learn something to pursue. I have sometimes watched, now the word 'historist' comes into play, with a historic hitch, but sometimes also with quite real-time work of other national parliaments, particularly in the context of Benelux, Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg and the Nordic countries. I took advantage of the opportunity to discuss it with them, with the same media directive, and to create a certain amount of excitement. We're in the habit of seeing each other through the TV bridge, aren't we? I was excited and asked: "Mr Black, are you a guest, a member or a spectator in the European Union? " The issue is that Parliamentaryism, European parliamentarianism, is being trusted in the European Union. Another peculiarity that can be pointed out in this same international comparison is that the peculiarity of our parliamentaryism is that we have a much more important assumption in the debate as an argument than in the parliaments of other European countries. An enemy is invented, a terrible situation is invented, and then it is successfully fought, and everyone is called under the flags. The Minister mentioned an important matter. Society knows there are freedoms. This is well known in Estonia. The fact that there are also responsibilities and responsibilities in society is less known. Several human examples were given here. I remember the neighbor's boyfriend when he was a kid telling me he was being cheated. How? He was convinced that the neighbors' rabbits could speak human languages, but he only shuts up when he's around and wants to cheat on him. I understand that there was exactly the same parallel when it was said that the Euro Directives were precisely to harass us, to enslave us, to make us dependent. Each opinion, each assessment describes two things: a little descriptive object, but quite a lot of evaluators themselves. I would say that the problem is not one element of the directive or another, but, above all, whether we trust the European Union and also the Estonian state, or whether we think that somewhere the bombs have been put down, which must immediately blow us up. One more observation. In Soviet times there was one basic rule of mentality: the land of the last struggle, now something is done and everything is decided. If we pass one law, it will solve all the problems. Let me remind you of one thing, I noticed it several times today in the discussion. Parliament is not dealing with the creation of a single law, it is dealing with legislation as a system. There are also such interesting problems as whether there was one thing or another in the Commission. In the Commission, in the Committee on Culture, we are constantly talking about this issue, this is our field of work. But the fact that every time, in one bill, over the whole package, as an abbot is not counted from the beginning to the end, it is also self-evident. According to my understanding, our local control mechanisms are formed and our own legal space is still filled by the Estonian legislator, the Estonian Parliament. And if something doesn't deserve trust, it has to be recalled. In Soviet times, it was in some ways easier, but from a very strange point of view. Then you could say someone was guilty, Moscow was guilty, there were fools who were making laws against us. It's a little harder these days, because as soon as you start telling me that someone is guilty, you have to start looking in the mirror, because people think that Toompea is going to create our legal space.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U647	Mr. Black, do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U648	In this sense, you have to roll up your sleeves, work, and keep working. There was a lot of talk about history, and it touched me too.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U649	Mr. Black, do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U650	All I'm saying is a simple historical truth. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U651	Yes, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U652	Thank you. Historians generally know better than non-historists that history can and must learn. For God's sake, if we don't, we'll go upstairs. But you can't live in history, you have to go on. Or where are we supposed to belong? Who appreciates our behavioral patterns? I also think that when the music gets appreciated, I recommend Tarmo Kruus Hills rather than myself. We don't think alike, but in this area, I know that Tarmo protects musicians, protects young people and is there in his place. I was delighted when I listened to the questions, the way Jüri Jaanson asked about content, about the way the law works. I loved it when Leo Kunnas asked and recalled Roman law, which is the foundation of this European judicial area. I'm glad we understand that. In the European Union, we are striving for a single area of justice. We must resist if we believe that we do not fit into the European judicial area and the European cultural area. I think we can fit. The directive deserves to be dealt with. It is our job to improve our legislation, to create a legal space where one or the other place of danger would not prevail and would not turn our lives inside out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U653	Next, Jack White, please! You get three minutes extra time, eight in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U654	Good meeting manager! Ladies and gentlemen, All right, technical personnel! As I have already said in the Commission's report, I am strongly opposed to this draft being approved here at first reading. I'll start with a little more general. You see, freedom of expression is one of the most important elements of democracy. If there is no freedom of expression, there is no democracy, and vice versa. I am afraid that you will not find any authoritarian regimes in the world with freedom of expression, even if you look well. The reason is simply that freedom of expression breaks down the autocratic regimes, at least when individualisation has reached a certain level among members of society, just as disclosure destroyed the Communist regime of the Soviet Union. As you know, and as has already been mentioned in this debate, freedom of expression can be restricted in many different ways. In the case of authoritarian regimes, freedom of expression is directly restricted by pre- or post-censorship in the press. But in semi-authoritarian regimes, it is also enough to create fear of the consequences in order to prevent people and journalists from exercising their right to express their thoughts. The freedom of expression of the media can also be restricted simply by the requirement to be politically correct. Using the concept of incitement to hatred is precisely a fear of the consequences, because it is a vague, broad concept that leaves a framework for interpretation. I would also like to point out that this concept originates in the Soviet Union and should be used as little as possible in our laws, better than at all, at least until it is unambiguously and very clearly defined. Another reason to oppose this draft is that the draft has reached a deadlock in the implementation of this concept, as it contains a closed list of characteristics whose carriers must not be instigated by hatred. Despite the fact that the authors of the draft claim that incitement to hatred against anyone is prohibited. In other laws, however, this now means that people with certain characteristics or groups of people are placed in a privileged position. The authors of the draft act have argued that these features have been taken over from the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. That's not really true. The Charter of Fundamental Rights mentions these features among others, but the draft contains a closed list. And a closed list, i.e. the priority of groups of people with the same characteristics, such as the most advanced class in the Soviet Union, proletariat, means that attempts are made to change social consciousness and to contrast some people with others. This is totally unacceptable to us Conservatives, to us who see society as an organic whole. And not only for us, it should also be reluctant to all other democratically-minded people and politicians who recognise people's equality. Thirdly, it is unacceptable for us to have the TTJA, which has a wide scope for its application, from the supervision of railway safety to the resolution of consumer disputes, as a censor. There are 120 employees and one of them is truly a media service expert. It is highly doubtful, even if we had clear definitions that this agency would be able to make competent decisions on this matter, decisions that would push our society, that is, Estonia's history, culture and identity. Fourthly, it is unacceptable to us that the TTJA is, according to the draft, separate from the Republic of Estonia on this issue. The agency is therefore independent of the democratic choices of our citizens, of all our choices, ladies and gentlemen, and this deviates from democracy. On the other hand, the Agency is obliged to follow the guidelines of the European Commission. However, we do not support the transfer of competence to the European Union, i.e. the federalisation of the European Union, i.e. the alienation of our citizens from power. We do not support it, it is not democratic. Each of these four reasons is sufficient to reject the draft. But there are five other reasons. It is by approving the draft that we do not yet know the content. These guidelines, which explain the nature of promoting media literacy, must only come from the European Commission. I ask if it is not humiliating if we, who are elected legislators, are acting instead as providers of blank bonds. So, yes, freedom of expression, other civil rights and parliamentary competences will all be lost at the same time when an authoritarian coup is taking place. I don't want to dramatize here, and I don't want to say that in any way. However, this is a step in the wrong direction. I call for this draft to be voted against, because it should be displeasing to all of us, regardless of what kind of world view we have. Perhaps only the National Socialists and Communists of the old school, who are not Democrats, could in principle support the restriction of freedom of expression. Let's not do this, even for tactical reasons. The transposition of the directive is certainly possible without compromising our freedom of expression. This is not about trusting or distrusting the European Union. And there shouldn't be a waterlock between the government and the opposition. I'll finish with two quotes to prove it. I quote Helle-Moonika Helmet, a member of the Committee on Culture: "This law is like a Brezhnev package familiar with Soviet times, which contained some necessary things and then the rest was junk. "Jaanus Karilaid, Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, has said: 'I suggest that, in the interests of greater consensus, for example, the withdrawal of the draft could be considered and presented in a more adequate form after the crisis'. The ECRE Group does not support this draft and proposes to reject it at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U655	Now, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, I would like to ask Heidy Purga.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U656	Dear Vice-Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, a marginal note which I consider necessary to mention here as a member of the Committee on Culture and also as a member of the Riigikogu. I am very surprised and deplored that the Commission's reports contain a great deal of personal views and only a little of those of the Committee on Culture. As a historian, the waitress should know that all sources should be taken into account. Now it's been said, and I'll get to my speech. I would like to start by saying that, just as this bill deals with the issue of media literacy and source criticism, ladies and gentlemen, we must also distinguish between the things that are important in this bill and the things that are being forced to make important, even though they are not. After all, the main content and focus of this amendment to the law is quite elsewhere than in those places that are very strongly over-enhanced in this Chamber today. Firstly, we must realise that we are doing a disservice to the Estonian media sector and its development if we do not renew the law as the only Member State, to any extent or in any form. There are immediate consequences. Firstly, this area would remain within the framework of old cumbersome rules. Secondly, we would not take into account the rapid development of digital content services, but would hinder it. Thirdly, we would end up in isolation, because if we did not change the law, we would have different rules than elsewhere in the European Union. Furthermore, this would prevent the cross-border circulation of our audiovisual media services and also of new digital platforms services elsewhere in Europe, as the free movement of services in the EU single market is a prerequisite for compliance with commonly agreed rules in the Union. These rules are being updated by the revised EU Audiovisual Media Services Directive, which has already been transposed by many Member States and is in the final stages of work in the rest of the country. All Member States consider it necessary to update their legislation and align it with the rules in force throughout the EU in order to ensure a favourable operating and development environment for their content services, a free distribution within the single market of the European Union and a wider competitiveness. Secondly, these important improvements were agreed in the European Union to update the Audiovisual Media Services Directive, especially during the Estonian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2017. If we did not transpose into our law the better opportunities available in the revised directive for protecting our information space and national security in the field of cross-border media services, we would still have an old, outdated and very cumbersome mechanism, and we could only act in the event of repeated violations of the relatively broad meaning of the 'no incitement to hatred', but we would not be able to stop the spread of media from another country in the event of incitement to violence and serious threats to national security and stability in society. This decline would certainly not be in Estonia's interest. I must point out that, in the opinion of the Reform Party Group, there is certainly a need for a fresh opinion from interest groups, because the text of this law is quite voluminous and, as we have seen and heard in this Chamber today, [this is] accompanied by a number of relatively subjective orientations. Our media sector expects this legislative amendment to operate on an equal footing. New platforms have so far been unregulated and provide a wide range of new opportunities for successful action, including making advertising restrictions more flexible, protecting minors, better access to services for people with disabilities. In conclusion, it seems to me, and not only does it seem, but I am firmly convinced that it is extremely dangerous to turn this media service law into something else, which is not the main focus of this law. Please don't go along with this! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U657	We've exhausted our calls, closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading be stopped, but we have received a proposal from the Pro Patria Group and the EKRE Group to reject the draft law amending the Media Services Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws at first reading 327. We must vote on this proposal. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put to the vote before you a proposal by the Isamaa Group and the EKRE Group to reject the draft law 327 on the amendment of the Media Services Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in this connection, on the amendment of other laws. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U658	The proposal for rejection was supported by 28 members of the Riigikogu, 61 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. We have finished our first reading and will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 21 April.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U659	We are going to the fourth item on today's agenda, which is the draft law on the amendment of the Emergency Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 350. On behalf of the Government of the Republic, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Aas, will give a first-reading presentation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U660	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will introduce you to the draft Act amending the Emergency Act and related amendments to other laws. The draft is divided into three parts of its content, including provisions on the transfer of crisis management from the Ministry of Internal Affairs to the State Chancellery and on the extension of the competence of the Rescue Board by means of evacuation. As regards the part of the draft relating to the creation of stocks, according to the current work organisation, each ministry prepares risk analyses according to the knowledge of its area of responsibility and seeks funding independently to ensure continuity and build up stocks, which is why the sector's capacities vary greatly in the areas of administration. Compliance with the obligation to build up a reserve depends on the possibility of financing the state budget each year. In a situation where there is no acute need for the stock for a long time, the current solution will result in a marginalisation of commitments. The external analysis on which the draft law was based also confirmed that the responsibilities between the various authorities are fragmented and there is no clear understanding of the purpose, the amount and the amount of resources to be provided. There is no comprehensive solution for both the introduction of stocks and long-term stable financing. Therefore, the current distributed responsibility has led to a situation where there is not enough margin. In the event of an emergency, we have focused on setting up a reserve and ensuring the availability of a reserve, spending significantly more time and financial resources to build up a reserve. Businesses also deliver under tough conditions of competition and optimise their costs. As a result, critical goods may only be available in stock for a few days. Operators shall not prepare for cases which may occur once every 20 years. This, of course, cannot be resented by them in conditions of competition. The outbreak of the Corona virus only aggravated our security of supply shortcomings because cross-border movement is limited, but it is necessary to protect its people and ensure their food. The state must have unused stocks at all times so that we do not run out of personal protective equipment too quickly, food shelves are empty, borders are closed or demand on the market is over-scoring to supply. It is therefore reasonable and necessary to bring the establishment of state resources together in a single institution. To this end, this draft Emergency Act specifies the basis for the establishment, management and deployment of the state's operational reserve and the division of responsibility between the stock manager, ministries and the Government of the Republic. With the draft, we include a chapter on state resources in the Emergency Act, so that there is a clear basis for centralising the establishment and management of stocks. During the discussion of the government's cabinet, it was agreed that the central source of the state's operating resources would be the State-owned company AS Eesti Liquid Fuel Supply Agency, which has 15 years of experience in establishing and maintaining liquid fuel reserves. Following the entry into force of the amendments to the Emergency Act, we will expand the functions of the state company and give it a new name, AS Eesti Tarvaste Keskus. In addition to managing fuel supply, the Estonian Stockpiling Centre will also manage the logistics of other operating resources necessary for the state, such as food, medicines, personal protective equipment, storage, quality control, renewal and deployment, as well as the continuity and daily cooperation of companies that are important for the state reserve. The volume, schedule and method of formation of the reserve are agreed at government level through the annexes to the National Defence Action Plan and in the state budget process, by allocating funds to the Estonian Stock Exchange Centre. The company shall report to the State by publishing at least twice a year a detailed report on the composition, quantity, expiry dates and location of the reserve. The reserve is made up of the AS Estonian Stock Centre, based on the decisions of the Government of the Republic of Estonia, sectoral laws, the input from the risk analyses of ministries and their sub-offices concerning the formation of the reserve and the state's defence action plan. In addition, sectoral working groups will be set up with representatives of both the state and economic operators. It will be reasonable to involve companies as much as possible in the reconstruction of the state's security of supply in the future so that we can take into account their daily experiences, weaknesses and strengths. The aim of the working groups is, inter alia, to find solutions to enhance business continuity and meet the challenges of supply difficulties, to work together to improve service continuity and to carry out exercises and information campaigns. As a general rule, it is reasonable for the inventory centre to conclude delegated stock contracts with economic operators. This means that companies have an agreed amount of stock at any time, it is of high quality and the Estonian Stock Centre has the right to buy it at any time. In summary, the main task of the inventory centre is to form, maintain, renew and ensure their rapid deployment. The composition and composition of the reserve shall be decided in cooperation between the authorities and the stock centre in accordance with the sectoral crisis plans. The Government of the Republic shall decide on the mobilisation of the reserve. As regards the transfer of crisis regulation policy from the Ministry of the Interior to the State Chancellery, under the current procedures, security crises are being prepared under the leadership of the State Chancellery. The competence of the State Chancellery is the management of broad-based national defence planning. At the same time, the Ministry of the Interior is responsible for preparing for, and all related to, crises. The aim of the draft is to bring the management of security crises and civil crises together in one place, to the State Chancellery, so that there is a comprehensive view of the preparation and resolution of crises. The amendment provides an opportunity to harmonise the various activities, reduce duplication and reduce the diversification of resources between institutions. By concentrating different crisis-preparation activities under a single authority, there is also a reduction in the possibility that events that go unnoticed or are not prepared for national defence crises and emergency preparedness. If the task of coordinating crisis management as a cross-governmental area is the task of the State Chancellery, this will also lead to the development of corresponding drafts. At the same time, giving legislative powers does not mean that the State Chancellery will implement the policy in the field. Sectoral policy remains to be shaped and implemented by ministries. On the changes to the extensive evacuation order, I can say that according to the current Emergency Act, extensive evacuation is organised by the Police and Border Guard Board. According to the amendment, the Rescue Board will continue to prepare for and organise evacuation, i.e. the main responsibility will be transferred from the Police and Border Guard Board to the Rescue Board. This means that, in essence, the Rescue Board will remain responsible for the general organisation of evacuation: its management, the information of the residents, the organisation of the evacuation sites, etc. In addition, the Rescue Board must continue to organise evacuation preparation, including evacuation plans, and, in cooperation with local authorities, prepare evacuation sites. The Police and Border Guard Board will continue to support the Rescue Board in carrying out the evacuation, for example in traffic management, limiting the danger zone to public order, etc. This change was made for a number of reasons. Coordination and support of the crisis preparedness of citizens and municipalities is already one of the tasks of the Rescue Board. As the municipalities have an obligation to contribute to the organisation of evacuation, it is reasonable to give the Rescue Board the responsibility of organising evacuation, which would be a necessary contact and helping the municipalities in related matters. It is also reasonable to concentrate the organisation of evacuation and shadowing of the population on the same institution, or Rescue Board. This will encourage better planning of resources and reduce duplication. It is also a question of the resources of the Police and Border Guard Board. It is reasonable to share resources with the Rescue Board in dealing with emergencies and national defence activities. I ask your approval in the procedure for the draft Emergency Act, so that, after the corona crisis, planning our population protection and securing the state's resources will also be better organised, and we will face new crises more systematic and stronger than before. Thank you for your attention and I ask you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U661	Thank you, Minister, there are also questions for you. But before we go to the questions, Mr. Ernits, do you have a procedural question or do you want a question of substance?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U662	I have both one and the other, but my question is why is the honourable minister hiding behind his bow? We have agreed that this is not a good tone.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U663	Thank you. Indeed, as far as possible, maybe the Minister can turn the camera on. Members of the Riigikogu are better off communicating with you. But if the Internet is a little low, then... See, there's a picture! So the minister is in full health. But now let's get to the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U664	I'm so sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U665	It's okay. Urmas Reinsalu asks first.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U666	Thank you, good minister, for such a thorough review. This is about the special measures to be put in place by the Rescue Board. The Rescue Board is working on understandable tasks. The government is now planning to grant the Rescue Board the right to special measures such as search, screening of movable property, depositing movable property, screening of persons, security checks, detention of persons, suspension of vehicles. But it's really about evacuating people, helping people. What is the justification for such a package of power-using powers for rescue officers?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U667	Thank you for your question. First of all, I would like to point out that the Rescue Board is still implementing special measures only in exceptional circumstances, in other words, when people's evacuation is necessary and when, for some reason, the police cannot take these measures at any time. As a rule, implementation of specific measures remains the responsibility of the police.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U668	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U669	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The current Emergency Act does not specify the grounds and conditions for declaring an emergency and the differences in its termination. And now that the emergency law is so-called open and you are going to introduce changes there, have you thought that maybe the law would specify in concrete terms, as the emergency conditions of this law have all been specified, the situations covered by the emergency? For example, how and under what conditions it is announced, what it must meet, how it will be terminated and started.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U670	Thank you. It will certainly be possible to discuss this during the parliamentary debate. As Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, I can, in particular, talk about the creation of reserves. When it comes to other situations, there are certainly more qualified people than me. But I think that during the parliamentary debate you can also ask these questions and answer these questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U671	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U672	Good manager! Mr. Minister! In fact, I was thinking the same thing as Mr Kingo. In my time, I was in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for a long time in the process of baking this bill, and there are quite a lot of things, loose ends that could be adjusted. But you've already responded that now, in the case of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, this stock center is changing. You've said that right now we're spending a lot more money and time, and with the supply center, we're spending a lot of money. Please specify how much more money we are saving for this stock centre. Do you have any records?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U673	It must be difficult to make such accurate estimates. However, if we looked at the situation we encountered last spring, for example, it would have been significantly more advantageous to obtain protective equipment if we had had their own margin first. As I said in my report, the aim is not, in fact, to keep all these stocks in stock somewhere, but to enter into contracts with economic operators so that, if necessary, economic operators store them with themselves or, in my opinion, another option which is even better, would be prepared to produce them for the country if necessary. If we had had had such a situation in the past, for example, where we had contracts with potential manufacturers of PPE, then we would not have had to start bringing these funds to China by plane. And certainly such advance agreements would have been considerably more favourable to the State.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U674	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U675	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Many people ask what trouble we have with this emergency that they do not want to declare it. Now we have national nihilism: we have a basically special situation, but we really don't. And now we're embracing this emergency that's being refused to actually implement. In the previous government, I understand there was no Y-chromosome deficiency that felt that way, but you could still decide. Then we'll see if we're missing anything. Right now, it's slamming, sideways. My question is: what is the problem with the drafting of this emergency law that it is not wanted to be implemented?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U676	Thank you. I think that the announcement of any emergency or emergency must be very clearly justified. As long as it is possible to manage the crisis without such decisions, it is also sensible to do so. Last spring we were in a somewhat different situation, somewhat more unaware and somewhat legally different. In order to manage the crisis centrally, it was necessary to declare an emergency situation. We don't need that today. We will also be able to manage the crisis, manage the crisis without an emergency. At present, the announcement of an emergency or emergency would have such a psychological impact. Looking now at how the health crisis has developed in the spring, we can say that today's positive trends, fortunately, show that the crisis can be managed even without declaring an emergency or emergency situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U677	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U678	Good Minister of Economic Affairs! I'd disagree. You can drive, but you may not drive, as practice shows. There is a great deal of this danger, and I think that this great threat is a danger of being amplified by the effects of this bill. Indeed, from such a logic of clear sole responsibility in resolving crises, regulating and shaping the policy of crisis regulation, we are actually moving towards the logic of social activity. What is said here is that the proposal put on the table in the draft law is that the development and implementation of the country's crisis regulation policy is managed by the government. It's a very beautiful slogan, a social, collective job. Who is the person in the spirit of this bill? I can't find the person who is really responsible for resolving the crises under this amendment to the Emergency Act in political terms?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U679	Thank you. As it says, the government is in charge. The Government is led by the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister is also the one who bears the ultimate political responsibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U680	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U681	Thank you very much, manager. Good minister! Having been driven directly by the question of Urmas Reinsalu, I would really like to know whether it is now expected that emergency officers will be trained in depth and given the skills to implement specific measures, so that they have the skills to carry out arrests and searches, transfer various resources and other skills necessary to implement emergency measures and to implement force.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U682	As far as I know, in a crisis situation or in special cases, rescuers regulate traffic and stop vehicles to deal with the situation on the ground. In many assignments, there is nothing new for them. Also, in this situation, the Rescue Board has somewhat more powers at certain moments in order to organize evacuation, but that does not mean that it is something that will be implemented every day. It is still an emergency situation, an evacuation arrangement, and it is in essence still valid when there is a need to replace the police for some reason. As a rule, all this activity is the responsibility of the police.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U683	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U684	Thank you. Dear Minister, My question concerns the acquisition and maintenance of stocks. We are now setting up a new public limited company. I would like to remind you that public resources have been held in the past and lost in public limited liability companies. True, not always in public limited companies. Is holding stocks in such a wide spectrum really the most sensible solution? And do these public limited liability companies have the authority to deal with, I don't know, medicines, food, fuel and everything else? You yourself pointed out that if you'd been dealing with masks like this last spring, maybe the supply would have been much better. Can it therefore be argued that the availability of such a public limited company would have improved the availability of tests and vaccines? And in your view, and according to the government bill, should such specific stocks be purchased by this company?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U685	Thank you. I will start by not setting up a new company. All supply-related activities will be provided to an already existing state-owned company, which, as I said in my introduction, has been active in fuel supply for 15 years. As far as we know today, there have been no problems in this 15-year period, at least as far as I know. So the fuel would either be gone or something. And, as I said, it is not really the aim of this public limited company to have these stocks laid off in a warehouse somewhere or somewhere else. Rather, the aim is to have contracts with those potential stockholders or stock producers and thus to be more economically viable.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U686	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U687	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'm looking at this bill and I'm really scared. Why have you prepared such a bill? Do you want to put the Estonian state into ruin? According to § 4 of the current Emergency Act, the Government of the Republic forms a crisis committee with its own specialists. Their management tasks and rules of procedure shall be laid down in the basic Regulation. In essence, it is a functioning system. Your amendment in this way says § 4 that the development and implementation of the state's crisis management policy is managed by the Government of the Republic. In today's briefing, when I asked Kaja Kallas about the side effects of vaccines, he said: "I am not a medical professional, I am a lawyer. " And now you want to hand over the regulation of the crisis from specialists to people who know nothing about it. Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U688	Thank you. I'm really sorry if that's what this bill looks like. After all, the situation has been such that, throughout this crisis, the government has advised specialists in its field of expertise and has made decisions according to their advice. I don't see any reason why it should be any different. And, as has also been said, the preparation of crisis plans and stock plans ♪ all of this will continue to be left to the ministries. Just the final decision will be made by the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U689	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U690	Thank you, Minister. Your answers could be understood that the Prime Minister is responsible for decisions in this situation and for the conduct of this policy, but in the draft law I see a more dangerous tendency. There is a very great power given to the State Chancellery, i.e. to a body where we do not know how it works. Nobody's picked it, and it's semi-anonymous. I specifically just opened the home page of the State Chancellery, and there I didn't find any names. Indeed, the portrait of two excellent gentlemen was viewed from that page by Jüri Uluots and Ado Birk. I have a strong suspicion that they will be responsible for the emergency in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U691	Thank you. The State Chancellery is given essentially coordinating action, decisions are made by the Government of the Republic and led by the Prime Minister. That is why I also said that the Prime Minister still has the ultimate responsibility, as is the case in various government matters today. In the current crisis, the State Chancellery, as a coordinating authority, has helped the government in resolving the crisis, and I think it has worked very well. During this year, as far as I have been involved in the work of the State Chancellery, I can only praise their support to the government, their support, their coordination in the implementation or preparation of government decisions. I'm pretty sure of them. I do not want to defy the work of the Ministry of the Interior here, but the preparation for any crisis and the management of the crisis are cross-cutting and the role of the State Chancellery is certainly very, very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U692	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U693	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You answered my question that it is a great pity that this bill is such an impression. I'm forced to comment on the impressions I get after my vacation when I tell you what happened. But here, in § 4 of the bill, the naked truth. I mean, we want to put power, say, in the hands of people who do not have professional preparation, who do not know anything about these details. Today we had a meeting with representatives of the Rescue Board. They said they had a complete misunderstanding as to why it was being done. Logistical issues, etc., have been completely unsolved. The question is why you're breaking up a working system and wanting to give responsibility and order to dilemmas who are not specialists in this field.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U694	Thank you for your question. The State Chancellery still has a coordinating role. It is a question of leadership support and coordination of preparation. This does not mean that the State Chancellery will be given a specific task of operational action in a crisis in the wake of events. Every event will still be dealt with by those who specialize in it. However, organisation and coordinated management are very important in every crisis. Once again, the final coordinated management is the organisation of the Government of the Republic, but the coordination of preparation, the whole preparation process and support for the coordinated implementation of decisions are within the competence of the State Chancellery.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U695	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U696	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! These amendments have a very strong link with national defence and national defence law. Wouldn't it make sense from the start to coordinate or synchronize the things we put in here with the National Defence Act? In essence, this is a reformulation and definition of the national defence functions of the State Chancellery.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U697	Yeah, certain changes will also come in the order of the Defence Forces Act and the Defence League Act. However, this concerns who and how the Defence Forces and the Defence League cooperate in organising the evacuation. But this bill is still talking about civilian crises, not military situations.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U698	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U699	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. It seems to me that the unfortunate story has happened with this bill that, if only a stock agency was planned here in the past, then now another Brezhnev package has been welded here and the emergency issues have been resolved. We had a meeting with the Rescue Board this week and we were talking about the same stock agency and the distribution of stocks. It became clear that in any crisis situation, the first line to communicate with people and share the supplies needed for life would probably be the Rescue Board. But according to them, no one has contacted them in the planning of this law or in the setting-up of this stock agency to get their input. Is that really possible? And don't you think that in this case something very critical has somehow been left unprepared?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U700	Thank you. When we talk about the distribution of stocks in a crisis situation, stocks are different. When we talk about personal protective equipment, for example, for the health care system, this is certainly not where the Rescue Board should act and distribute them to the health care system. When we talk about food supplies, it is logistically right that these stocks are distributed through a commercial network, if that is possible. All this logistics for these stocks must be developed and developed by the inventory centre in such a way as to make logistics as simple as possible and certainly to work in times of crisis. If there are such supplies or situations where the Rescue Board needs to be involved, then these scenarios must be reviewed during the exercises, practiced and, if necessary, used by the Rescue Board. But the Rescue Board cannot certainly be the main logistical unit in the case of supplies, which will start to disperse supplies on Estonian territory.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U701	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U702	Good manager and minister! There are many countries in the world, and there are many similar institutions. In Switzerland, it is possible to ensure that companies that hold stocks, interest on a low percentage or give them tax incentives, etc. But in Finland, this NESA looks like there are thousands of experts involved, and there are, as far as I know, half of the private sector. My question is: how much have you taken over the NESA model when talking only about Finland? And how much have you guys been gutting off to put on a model like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U703	At first, the experiences of a wide range of countries were reviewed. And countries have solved the acquisition, maintenance and logistics of central stocks in very different ways. There are state companies, there are state agencies that do this. It's really very different. We were based on the fact that, in the case of stocks, their circulation is also important: there are certain stocks that must definitely be in stock, but stocks in stock need to be renewed from time to time. So there must be a sale-purchase process. We found it relatively close to what the liquid fuel supply agency is doing today, the public limited company on which we are creating this stock centre. As far as private enterprise is concerned, this is definitely our plan. Even today, private companies, the private sector, are represented in the board of the company. In the same way, it is planned that private operators will be represented in the Supervisory Board of this new stock centre, as well as sectorally in the establishment and maintenance of stocks. In drawing up these plans, private operators in the sector will be involved. As I said in my introduction, they have knowledge skills. And together, the scenarios of the crisis must be played, the exercises must be carried out to make clear the places that need to be improved. This can be done in conjunction with operators in a specific area, so that they also have experience of how to act in an emergency or in another situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U704	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U705	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I don't understand the logic of the government. In the case of Nets, you're putting the police in charge of the Health Department, but now, in the context of an emergency, you're planning to put the Rescue Department in charge. Why don't you explain the logic to me? For me, it's gonna be a little weird and crazy.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U706	Thank you. Once again, the Rescue Board will only perform these special tasks in emergency situations, in specific cases, in which the police may for some reason not be able to carry out these tasks because of other tasks. Once again, rescue officers are still operating traffic at case or accident sites if the police have not arrived and the Rescue Board has reached there first and there is a need. So, in a situation where evacuation is required, it is quite logical that the evacuator, if necessary, has the opportunity to use special equipment and perform special tasks. But once again, the point of the bill is not that the Rescue Board does it every day, it's still a special case, an emergency situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U707	Mr. Minister, no more questions for you... Still, Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U708	I have a question as to whether it is essentially a political decision that, in all crisis situations, as much resources and decision-making will be concentrated in the hands of the State Chancellery, or whether this has now happened by accident in the course of the work. If this is a conscious decision, is there any idea of how big the State Chancellery will eventually have to become, how much more people and budget will have to be put in there?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U709	Thank you. Well, first of all, we've been in a crisis with a good questioner. And even before the crisis, as ministers, we both probably knew that the coordination of preparations for security crises was already within the competence of the State Chancellery today. This was not the case with civil crisis preparations. But, as I said, good questioner, we have been in this crisis together, we know what role the State Chancellery has played in dealing with this crisis. Consequently, I think it is quite logical if the coordination of preparing for civil crises is similarly in the State Chancellery. As far as I know, five people are moving from the Ministry of the Interior to the State Chancellery when this activity is transferred, so it is not a very large number. And since the Ministry of the Interior has been preparing for crises so far, these people already exist, they are just now in the Ministry of the Interior and are moving from there to the State Chancellery. But above all, the reason for this draft is that we have learned from this crisis, and I think that the experience that has come with this crisis is reasonable to take advantage of.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U710	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U711	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! We know that we have four categories: crisis, emergency, emergency, war. But the term "medical emergency" is very often used lately. There's no such thing as far as I know. But Kaja Kallas talks about it all the time. Perhaps you can tell me what he means, especially in the context of this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U712	Thank you. Once again, when it comes to crises, there are certainly more competent people than me to answer these questions. I am the waitress for the bill because this law began with the need to create reserves. It is possible that this is not a legal term. Rather, it illustrates where we are. After all, this is a special or emergency in relation to health and medicine, no matter what we call it. I'm sure it illustrates where we are.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U713	Minister, there are no questions for you now. Thank you! Urmas Reinsalu, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, will make a presentation on behalf of the commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U714	Thank you. The Commission decided to set ten working days for the deadline for the amendments, your servant Urmas Reinsalu to be appointed as the lead rapporteur and to propose that the first reading be completed. In the Commission, the Minister spoke with the same inspiration as today in the Chamber. In addition, Mrs Viola Murd from the Ministry of the Interior and State Secretary Taimar Peterkop performed. The questions concerning the range of topics covered by the Commission's debate were as follows: Shouldn't civil crisis regulation be similar to military crisis management and who is responsible for it? The Secretary of State said that, in the event of a minor crisis, this could be a specific minister in his area of government. If it is a major crisis, it requires the Prime Minister to be led. The Secretary of State also referred to the governance arrangements that the rules for all institutions to prepare for crises would be established and agreed at government level. Practice shows that major crises are managed by the Prime Minister; smaller crises can be left to different authorities. The question was also raised in the Commission for the Minister on why the draft consists of several different blocks of subjects. The Minister's answer was that the draft consists of different cases because crisis management is one whole. The question was also for the Minister who is actually personally managing such a crisis. The Minister replied that the prime minister had the primary responsibility and that each minister had a certain responsibility in its own field. With regard to the stock agency, the Commission raised questions as to whether this should be stated in the draft, which type of stock the State is legally making up and which stocks the State itself acquires, for which stocks contracts are being concluded with companies. The Minister for Economic Affairs indicated that for some types of reserve, an analysis is currently being carried out to find out what is needed and how much is needed in the future. It does not make sense for the government to fully read the fallbacks in law. This was, in general, the course of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U715	Leo Kunnas is asking you too.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U716	Good Urmas! Did you have the question in the committee that you could ask the National Defence Committee for an opinion on this? And also, as Vice-Chairman of this committee, I propose that we also ask the Commission for an opinion on this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U717	Thank you. I will certainly propose this in the course of preparation. And I hope that the Commission will take a benevolent view of this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U718	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U719	Thank you! Listening to what you have in the committee, I remembered the story where some big laugh was on the ground and then the old man came and pulled. He couldn't get to her, and then she came in, and she was given the duties of a lady. Then came the child, the boy, and then came the daughter, and then came the dog, and then came the cat, and finally came the mouse. Does this ring game look like it's going to be like an assistant cop getting savior assignments, and then I don't know what's in it. We finally come to the conclusion that Odin's warriors are given some other functions. And we also have Boy Scout organizations. Do we have anything to look forward to next? A representative of school pupils may be starting to perform the functions of medical staff. Was that what we talked about in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U720	Thank you. Not now in exactly the form you referred to, but more or less in a similar model, Mr. Minister for Economic Affairs introduced the logic of this draft in crisis management. That it is, in fact, a collegial activity of the government, where, according to whether the crisis is small or large, ad hoc these crises are being tackled in a social way by common force.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U721	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U722	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Was there also a debate in the Commission that we may well pile up supplies somewhere, but in a crisis situation, these stocks must also reach those in need? And if there's a mass emergency, maybe there's hundreds of thousands of people in trouble. How is logistics organised? Who's responsible for this? As far as I know, the Rescue Board isn't involved enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U723	Thank you. No, there was no mention of that, and the bill doesn't contain a inventory list either. As the Minister for Economic Affairs said, analyses and investigations are still ongoing on certain stocks. So, as far as distribution is concerned, by logistics, this was not dealt with in detail by the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U724	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U725	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! The explanatory memorandum states that according to this bill, the competences, powers and tasks of the Ministry of the Interior are transferred to the Government of the Republic and the State Chancellery in coordination with the crisis management. And the goal is that this bill creates prerequisites for a functioning logistics system. Did the Commission also mention how this is practically feasible? And I also ask in connection with the fact that the Minister was in a bit of trouble to answer the question of what the term'medical emergency' means. Maybe you can explain the term? Why is it used in the context of this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U726	Thank you. As far as this particular term is concerned, I understand that, depending on the type of emergency, sector names can be clinged to infinitely. Whatever the case, it's an ecological emergency or a fire emergency or a nuclear emergency. But as far as this organisational side is concerned, indeed, according to its organisational logic, the preparations for how this scheme will work are still ahead and are still under discussion, as confirmed by the Secretary of State. As you can understand, as the Minister said, officials from the Ministry of the Interior are being relocated from the Ministry of the Interior to the State Chancellery. This is certainly a question of my personal view, which I also expressed in the Commission, that the crisis is now at its peak and whether it is quite the right time to rebuild the whole crisis management model. Perhaps it would be wise for us to try to solve this crisis with the tools available and then to reassess the crisis management on the basis of conclusions. At the moment, I think the acute problems are elsewhere. In my opinion, we are currently solving a real crisis. The requirement for building theoretical constructions to take up the time of the officials who have to deal with the crisis, I do not think it is the most rational choice. But that's my personal assessment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U727	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U728	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! The Minister mentioned in his introduction that the Rescue Board would have the right to arrange traffic if they conducted the evacuation. But in fact, it seems that their mandate is given for much greater police work and taking over it, though, for searches and detaining people, etc. Was there any mention of this in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U729	There was no separate, but the explanatory memorandum to the draft law outlines the additional powers of force enforcement and use of power that the Rescue Board receives: processing of personal data, suspension of vehicles, detention of persons, security checks, screening of persons, storage of movable property. These are additional competences for rescue officers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U730	Mr Kingo, unfortunately, in the debate on this point, we are allowed to have two questions for both rapporteurs together. No further questions. Thank you, Mr Reinsalu. Now I'm opening negotiations. First, I would like to ask Mr Seeder to speak on behalf of the Isamaa Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U731	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Recently, we are dealing here in the Riigikogu with successive and successive Brezhnev packages, where it is very difficult to deal with. Some part of it is like wanting to support, some part is perfectly reasonable, but at the same time completely unacceptable provisions and points have been grafted on. The final result is that it is necessary to vote in such a way that these good points, too, do not find support. I don't know why the government is coming out on a massive basis with these drafts. So far, the practice has been that, yes, in exceptional cases, this may be the case, but we are currently in the process of bulking them: for example, the same Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases, the Media Services Act under way today, the amendment to the Emergency Act, etc. This draft is one of the parties that talks about the acquisition and holding of stocks. This is a completely debatable subject to be reorganized. Although there are some problems here too, such as whether it is right to give such a broad competence to a public limited company that deals with everything from fuel to prescription medicines. Is he competent to do so, especially in the form that the Minister said, in answering my question, that it is not the primary task to hold and acquire these stocks, but rather to keep and conclude contracts. Well, the competence to keep and conclude contracts certainly still exists in the ministries of industry, and it is not a very costly job that it should necessarily be concentrated in a single national company. So this, too, is a subject worth discussing. But obviously there's your scale effect, and that's a perfectly reasonable point of discussion. However, for the Isamaa Group, problems arise from the other side of the law concerning the redistribution of competences or, rather, the pooling of major competences with the State Chancellery. This process has been one-way before and will continue. As we have heard here today from a representative of the government, it will also be predominantly collective responsibility in crisis management, collective coordination. The minister avoided the word "management." Collective coordination is, in essence, leadership, and behind the coordinated management of this government, the Prime Minister's ears also appear. In fact, it is a dissipation of responsibility, a dissipation of governance, and it certainly does not make sense. And it is not practical, all the more so as to bring such extensive powers to the State Chancellery, that neither the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence nor other ministries can remove this competence, but that duplication will take place. In the case of a country as small as Estonia, it certainly does not make sense financially. Secondly, transfer of competence of the Ministry of Interior to the State Chancellery. As the text of the explanatory memorandum states: The competences, powers and tasks of the Ministry of the Interior in coordinating crisis management are transferred to the Government of the Republic and the State Chancellery. Well, we certainly don't support it. And then, what else will be given to the State Chancellery and what needs to be deduced: "The task of drafting legislation will be laid down for the State Chancellery in coordinating the area of government." No. There are so many things in Estonia's life that are between or above several fields. Is it really all that is not even related to the crisis, as I read out of this explanatory memorandum, that cross-cutting legislation is being developed and coordinated by the State Chancellery? It does not make sense and we cannot support it. As far as questions and answers are concerned, we have already talked about giving the Rescue Board extensive powers, which is a complex issue in itself. The fact that the rescuers are now going to take on the duties of police officers and the duties of medical personnel, etc., is not very practical either. This will not increase the quality of crisis management and resolution. Because this draft is not mature for discussion in Parliament and of sufficient quality, the Isamaa Group proposes to reject the draft law amending the Emergency Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws 350. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U732	Okay, I got it. Mart Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U733	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, The creation of stocks and the co-ordinated management of stocks, the development of a logistics system, the qualification of different stocks according to possible needs, the provision of accessibility in every corner of Estonia for every person in Estonia, these are undoubtedly very important things, and we have absolutely nothing against solving these issues. But I have to go back to where the previous speaker left off. And that's exactly giving the Rescue Board special powers. I can assure you that the Rescue Board is not interested and willing to accept these new tasks. Why? I had a meeting with the heads of the Rescue Department this morning. And what were the topics there? The topics were the retirement of rescue officers and, in this context, the choice for rescue officers in the near future: either to accept a pension for the years they have earned or to continue working. You can't do two at a time in the future. This could mean losing up to 350 rescue officers in theory. And if we have a total of about 4400 employees at the Rescue Board, you can imagine that leaving such a large number of people or being excluded from the system is an extremely big problem. Therefore, resolving the issue of pay and pensions, as well as working conditions, is a priority issue for the Rescue Board. It's not whether or not they get any special powers. Practice is a criterion of truth and practice shows us this. The autumn of 2019 in South-East Estonia proved in black white that the Rescue Board was the only agency capable of coordinating rescue work and resolving the emergency situation. And the Rescue Board is still the head of the regional coordination bodies, even in an emergency or in the COVID situation. In fact, therefore, the Rescue Board is already in charge of emergency, emergency and crisis management. The Rescue Board shall have sufficient tasks and powers. That's one. Secondly, if we concentrate everything under this State Chancellery in that nice, nice Stenbock house on Toompea, that means we're going to have a centralised vertical system that won't work in a crisis situation. This is what we saw during the 2019 storm and we have also seen COVID during the crisis. The State Chancellery is unable to cope effectively, quickly and flexibly with all problems at the level of individual cases, individual regions, individual municipalities. This is the creation of a failed system and this system must be changed once we have experienced in practice that it does not work either way. Let's not experiment on our people, on our wallets and on our officials what practitioners may already say is not going to work. Therefore, I fully support the position of the previous speaker and of the Isamaa Group that it is immature and, in fact, in this form I stress, in this form, it is not a matter of stock or stock agency, an unnecessary bill that should be withdrawn by the Ministry, taken back into work and handed back to the Riigikogu in revised, improved and realistic form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U734	There's no more calls. The commission has proposed that the first reading be stopped, but the Group of the Fatherland is asking the Government of the Republic to reject the draft law on the amendment of the Emergency Act and the related amendment of other laws. We need to vote this through. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Fatherland Group to reject the draft Act amending the Emergency Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U735	The rejection was supported by 27 delegates and 58 opposed. The proposal was not supported. We have completed the first reading of Bill 350. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 21 April.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U736	Our fifth item is the bill number 351 of the Penal Code Amendment Act (non-cash means of payment) initiated by the Government of the Republic. On behalf of the Government, this will be introduced by Minister of Justice Maris Lauri. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U737	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! This draft is quite short and aims to transpose one amendment relating to the European Union Directive. The directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on combating fraud and counterfeiting of non-cash means of payment is then what we should have fully implemented. The deadline for transposition shall be the end of May of this year. As has been said, this directive relates to fraud and counterfeiting of non-cash means of payment. Such tools may include, for example, bank cards as a whole, but also data on the card on a stand-alone basis, as they enable payments to be made online. The Directive provides for liability both for fraud related to a payment instrument and for the unlawful acquisition and/or handling of a payment instrument for the purpose of fraud. Estonia has largely met the requirements of the Directive, but it is necessary to increase the maximum penalty from one year to two years of imprisonment for the composition of the introduction, which is in § 201 of the Penal Code. This increase may raise the question of what will happen in the future. In general, according to the case law of the Supreme Court, penalties are started from the "average point" and are moved upwards or downwards depending on the severity of the sentence. And now, if you raise this upper limit, you might find that some penalties may rise. But it is always up to the court to take into account that the penalty imposed is proportionate to what has been done. So this possible slope may not be large and may not be forthcoming. That is, in fact, the content of the draft. And here is also the addition of one of the technical notes necessary to achieve legal correctness. That's all for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U738	Kert Kingo would like to ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U739	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. I understand we're talking about online crimes. I have a question that the penalty rate is up to two years. Does this also depend, for example, on the size of the amount taken, or does it depend solely on the judge's decision? Has it been specifically pointed out that, from a certain amount, this rate, for example, is two years of imprisonment and, for example, for some amount, is only one year?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U740	As has been said, the amendment only concerns the maximum penalty. In the present case, there is a one-year penalty, with a two-year maximum penalty for making a change. There will be no other changes to the current law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U741	Madam Secretary, there are no further questions for you. Thank you. As a representative of the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Anti Semi-Amets will present the draft. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U742	[[Remote connection, there's no sound at first.]] ... preparation for second reading on 25 March. In addition to seven members of the Commission and the Minister of Justice, Martin Ziehr, Adviser to the Criminal Law and Procedure Department of the Ministry of Justice, was also present on the Commission. The Commission heard a presentation by Minister of Justice Maris Lauri. I am not going to discuss the content of his report here in detail, because he has just presented the same sites here. There's one thing I'm gonna say. He pointed out that the second option would have been the possibility of supplementing the Penal Code with a new composition that would only have affected non-cash means of payment, but this did not seem reasonable since it would lead to an unjustified distinction in the penalties imposed on non-cash means of payment and other property. Member of the Commission, Urve Tiidus, asked the Minister of Justice whether there was any information on how much less severe punishment has previously been paid for fraud by non-cash means. Counselor Martin Ziehr of the Ministry of Justice explained that the draft raises the penalty ceiling by one year, but its foreseeable effect is negligible. There are no statistics on specific means of payment in Estonia, as these statistics are kept in general form. Martin Ziehr explained that, to his knowledge, the number of cases where the adoption of a payment instrument has been committed is limited to tens in Estonia. At its meeting, the Commission took the following procedural decisions: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 7 April, to propose that the first reading be closed and to appoint a speaker to present the draft. The decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U743	It is possible to ask the rapporteur questions, but I do not see any requests. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of Bill 351 is complete. I shall set the deadline of 15 April at 16 a.m. for the submission of amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U744	We will proceed to the sixth item on the agenda: Draft Law 358 on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases initiated by the Government of the Republic and amending the Tax Administration Act. This is the first reading and the Minister of Health and Labour, Tanel Kiik, has been invited to act as rapporteur. [[Silence.]] There's no voice, there's no voice, Tanel! Mr. Minister, there is no voice! Now there's no picture. Well, let's try it again.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U745	[[He's on the screen, but I can't hear anything.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U746	There's no voice, Tanel. Mr. Minister, there is no voice. There's no voice, there's no picture. Well, let's try it again. It's working now. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U747	Am I listening now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U748	It's okay. You're good to go.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U749	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I give an overview of the draft law 358 amending the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases and the Tax Administration Act. A specific law complements the register of communicable diseases and therefore clarifies the objectives of the register. A clear reference is also made to the need for the Health Board to provide the law enforcement bodies involved in the performance of its tasks with the necessary information to enable the tasks to be carried out. And the Health Board will have the right to transmit close contact data to the health service provider in certain specific situations, such as the risk of an emergency, such as an emergency, for example, an emergency situation, in particular when we are really already facing a serious public health threat in the area of health care. The Tax Administration Act includes the right to disclose to the Health Board and the Ministry of Social Affairs general information related to the workplace, such as the employer of the person and the workplace. I will later explain in more detail why these changes are, according to the government, necessary. The current problem with the Infectious Diseases Registry is that only infectious patients are collected in the register, but negative test results and close contact data of vaccinees are also needed to resolve the crisis. This data is actually available in the internal information systems of the Health Board itself, but data management is fragmented. The crisis has shown that this need for data does not disappear; rather, it is a lasting need. It is therefore appropriate to ensure adequate transparency and legal clarity in the exercise of the basic tasks laid down by law, not only on the basis of the assistance of the Office for Data Processing. A register of communicable diseases is an appropriate place to regulate the missing one, where all communicable diseases have already been consolidated in the past. According to the amendment, the data in the register will only be supplemented in the event of epidemic distribution, i.e. only in the case of epidemic distribution, the persons who have given the negative test, the close contacts and the vaccinees. This data can be used by the Health Board for both epidemiological studies, such as detection of some outbreaks, prevention of the spread of communicable diseases, and monitoring. Close contact helps to determine the level of risk and to assess the actual risk groups in society, as well as the rate of spread and the means of spread of infection in different groups of infections. Similarly, the mapping of close contacts will help to determine the size of the centres and assess the effectiveness of the measures implemented. It is important to know the results of the negative test in order to assess the spread of further infection, to determine the number of possible close contacts and patterns of spread at national level, as well as to assess the occurrence of the threat, i.e. the occurrence of the disease in a specific site, in short, to carry out risk analyses and to provide for appropriate control measures and aid. Immunisation data are essential to assess the effectiveness of different measures, such as how long this protection lasts, as well as to make reasonable decisions, considered decisions in the event of an epidemic, in order to know the coverage of vaccination and to carry out risk assessments across regions across specific sectors. So if we want to take any measures, take any additional information campaigns, we know where we have concerns and where vaccination is well done. In the same way, it helps to monitor and provide the right sectoral guidance on the control of an infectious disease epidemic. The amendment also provides that the Health Board shall provide the law enforcement bodies involved in the performance of their duties with the necessary data from the same register. The Health Board has the right to transmit close contact details to the healthcare provider, which is another major change. The point and the core of the problem is that the Health Board is currently identifying close contacts, but it is not known to be dealing with the treatment of patients, disease prevention and health guidelines. However, this work can be done by health professionals. Unfortunately, however, the family physician is not aware and does not know who is close to his list if the person himself has not provided him with this information. In order to ensure that persons are aware of the risks of contagious diseases, of reasonable health behaviour, of the need for possible medical examinations and, without doubt, of the need for consultation, it is important that family doctors have the necessary information about their list of members: who are ill, who are in close contact. Then he can help and support them in the best way possible. This provision amends the law so that the Health Board has the right to transmit to the health care provider the data of an infected person in the event of an emergency and in the event of an emergency and emergency. This does not apply at the usual time, it does not apply to any other possible viral disease, but applies when there is a risk of epidemic spread or epidemic spread, or when there is already a very special situation, which has been known to exist only once in Estonian history. The third major issue is the granting of the right to process the data of the employee and his/her workplace, as I referred to, the Health Board and the Ministry of Social Affairs. The question is that health professionals are currently not aware of whether a person belongs to a risk group because of the workplace or whether a person's health concerns and certain health risks may be related to the workplace. At the same time, the Ministry of Social Affairs does not have the possibility to produce statistics by immunized people or vaccinated people and jobs, to assess resource needs and the targeting of communication, etc. If we know that there is a higher risk of infection in certain sectors and, at the same time, a lower level of vaccination, this is very important management information on the basis of which, in future, it will be precisely in this area, in that area or in that authority to provide additional vaccination opportunities. The Agency also does not currently have the possibility to identify collective outbreaks in order to assess the risk, the impact and size of the pandemic and, in specific cases, to provide precise codes of conduct, to carry out epidemiological risk analysis and risk assessment on trends in the spread of communicable diseases. These are the concerns that have emerged during the first and second waves, in the work of establishing measures for inter-agency communication, monitoring them and reporting and targeted actions, in order to maximise support for maintaining human health and increasing the coverage of vaccination. With this amendment, we give the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Health Board the right to process certain personal data by means of a register. As I was referring to, in particular, it is not health data, but general information about the person, the identity of his employer and the identity of his post. This information will provide an opportunity for significantly more precise implementation of possible restrictions, possible measures as well as, in particular, supporting actions to reduce the risk of the virus and increase the number of vaccinees in different sectors. It was a brief overview of the changes planned. I'd be happy to answer your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U750	Thank you. There are indeed questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U751	Good President and Mr Minister! We have an emergency law, and there's a section that would actually satisfy the police. If a state of emergency has been announced, it will be valid from date to date and would not be necessary at all for any of the current changes in police capacity building. Have you considered this? In that case, the pressure would be off and the police would be satisfied, because there is a law. We're declaring an emergency, it's from date to date, and peace in the house. But otherwise, why not?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U752	No sound. Stop, Tanel, there's no sound.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U753	Am I hearing this now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U754	I can hear you now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U755	I'm sorry! Thanks for saying that. Mr Ernits, thank you for your question. When we are talking about purely epidemic control, for example in an active spread or growing trend, the announcement and use of an emergency situation is undoubtedly a tried and effective measure to control it. However, if we are talking now more about exiting the pandemic and precisely such local monsters, isolation, detection and, more generally, increasing the coverage of vaccinations, specifically by target groups, then it is not really justified to declare an emergency situation. This specific draft law will help not only at the height of the crisis, but also at the time of exit from the crisis, and also in the view of preventing possible new epidemic spread, to ensure the necessary exchange of data between authorities. It makes this very clear and regulated: it is known what situations these rights are in and what situations they are not in. We are not talking about normal action, but about the management of the epidemic and the use of data from vaccinees, close contacts and negative testers after epidemic spread in order to get the country as a whole out of the crisis more quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U756	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U757	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good minister! Mr Ernits made a very correct remark and pointed out that we have been very strongly confused here with the normal situation. Yes, we have the possibility of an emergency and an emergency, but there is no need to implement them. The current Minister also stressed that the idea behind this draft is that these data collection mandates will be supplemented by a reference to an emergency and emergency situation. These specific cases. But we have become the norm to this, the Prime Minister has repeatedly pointed out that we do not have an emergency or a normal situation, but that we have, how it was now, a specific situation of substance. Does the same issue of extending sensitive personal data concern this "material emergency" or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U758	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. Actually, it doesn't touch or it's better to say it can touch. If the country is, as I have pointed out, in an active crisis phase which is comparable to an emergency situation, it is, of course, possible to declare an emergency situation at government level if it is considered reasonable by the majority of the members of the government or a consensual decision is taken. But this specific law would also help, once the hotspot of the crisis is over, but there is a need to continue to address the localisation of different colleges, it is precisely in order to identify the sectoral distribution of the profile of those affected in order to implement the measures as targeted as possible, to prevent new outbreaks and to prevent the spread of the virus. Just as it is when we're dealing, as I was referring to right now, with the immunization side. It would probably be incomprehensible if we announced an emergency situation in order to increase the coverage of vaccination in one target group or another.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U759	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U760	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. Where is the problem in Estonian society that the new regulation seeks to solve and which could not be solved under the current law?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U761	Thank you for your question. The problem, as I referred to earlier, is the clear fragmentation of databases. The Health Board collects a lot of different data due to epidemic control, it is information about close contacts or about those who have taken a negative test, but there is no central approach. There is also no legal clarity as to how these data are processed and how long they will be retained. If we create a more comprehensive, clearer legislative base, as well as improvements to the relevant register, all these basic regulations of the register will, of course, also be coordinated with the Data Protection Inspectorate. It is considered that all the conditions for the storage of these data are justified both in the view of security requirements and in terms of time limits, it would be reasonable that no one's data should be kept longer than necessary and not on a temporary, incomprehensible basis, so-called ad-hoc databases. There is a clear central approach that will help, as has been said, to react operationally both during this crisis and during future crises and to implement immediately the epidemiological studies needed for the eradication of the virus, as well as containment measures, more successfully. And the other side, as I have pointed out, concerns all this in favour of supporting close contacts. The question is that, unfortunately, these data are currently not moving within the health sector. I have pointed out before that the Health Board is involved in the size of 200-250 of its employees and in a somewhat additional workforce. But we have had moments where there are tens of thousands of close contacts in Estonia. And these tens of thousands of people need advice, need certain consultations, the better to be given by their family doctor or family nurse, but under the current law, family doctors do not have the right to receive this information from the Health Board. They will only receive this information once the close contact has made itself known. Therefore, people will inevitably receive less and less necessary advice, less care to mitigate health risks than they could get. And, as I was referring to, these specific provisions concerning the transmission of data to family doctors and health authorities in general would apply precisely in times of emergency, emergency and emergency. In particular, we are talking about contacts between infected people, or close contacts in common language. These are some of the gaps that the current Code has not allowed for effective enforcement. These are the places that have emerged during this crisis. One might even say that, especially now, during the second wave, because these volumes and scales are just so much larger. Apparently, you've all seen the news and heard that in the meantime, just the Health Board couldn't do the job anymore, precisely because of the limited human resources. We know that 2,000 professional health professionals are working in teams of family doctors and family nurses from all over Estonia who know and know their patients. It would certainly be more effective to advise people in close contact, to answer health concerns and questions. Health authorities are not really health professionals and do not have such a broad competence in solving people's treatment problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U762	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U763	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'll listen to what you're saying and start believing. But in general, as they say, the devil is in the details. You're talking about an emergency in an emergency, and so on, but you also have one of those very crazy words inside: 'in case of emergency danger'. This is an undefined legal term; this provision can be applied in absolutely any situation. If we add here the Law on Control of Diseases, which is protested before the Riigikogu, the data will fly nicely to the police and the police will go under the same auspices to eradicate the communicable disease. We are going to put an emergency law here, where similar rights come from, then the law on rescue services and media services and hate speech law, and we are going to have a dictatorship. Please tell me who is the author of this bill and who has given the order. Please name this person's name!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U764	Mr Grünthal, thank you for your question. I think that you, I and all members of the Riigikogu know very well that this draft does not set the objectives to which you referred, nor does it pursue the objectives to which you referred. It is not requested by the current government, nor by this Parliament, I dare say, no member. So there is no need to sow such concerns or fears. A specific draft, as I have referred to, has been drawn up under the direction of the Ministry of Social Affairs, in cooperation with the various public health agencies, the PBA, the Ministry of the Interior, as a result of the in-house feedback: what are the places that are well-solved in this crisis and what are the places that could have been better solved? We know that COVID-19 is not going anywhere in the world. We know that the next pandemics will inevitably come back sooner or later, and then inevitably we will all be asked what conclusions, what necessary legislative improvements we have made in order to be better prepared than we were during the first and second wave of the COVID-19. And this particular draft law is precisely the aim that the state as a whole should be able to react more operationally, science-based, systematicly and effectively prevent the spread of the virus at the earliest possible stage.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U765	Kalle Günthal has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U766	Yes, I would like to know if the law on our home and working arrangements provides what to do when I specifically ask for a person's name, but I am told a completely different story. Does the Minister have such a right under our Home and Rules of Procedure Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U767	The minister should try to answer as accurately as he can, but I'm sure that name can be identified. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U768	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You stressed here that the draft includes a special or emergency situation. The Prime Minister has called the current situation a medical emergency. The law does not provide for such a situation, or we rely on the fact that it is a normal situation. Now this bill is going to begin to share human health data, which until now were sensitive personal data, with police and local government officials who are going to perform the tasks of the Health Board in order to combat the epidemic. My question is: is the person's health data no longer sensitive personal data to be distributed so freely and freely everywhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U769	Thank you for your question. The health emergency is, of course, defined by law; that concept exists there. The Health Board has the right to evaluate it and, if necessary, to inform the public that we have reached it. And that's where we are right now. As far as health data is concerned, I dare assure you that there is no ministry that works more to protect these data than the health sector of the Ministry of Social Affairs. For example, when news buttons with different content appear in the media, we and healthcare professionals are required to have accurate information about the health of one person or another, but these data are not published, and because health data are sacred, they must be protected, very delicate. This also applies to the flow of data between different sectors. All such changes are justified only if we are really talking about epidemic spread, emergency threat, emergency or emergency. We are not talking about transmitting health data in large quantities during normal times. We are talking specifically about epidemic control, we are talking about a crisis environment where the rapid flow of these data between different authorities, for example, in order to monitor the spread of the virus, is reasonable and necessary to prevent major health damage, to protect people's lives and health. This is the bearing idea of why we have initiated such proposals at government level and brought them before Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U770	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U771	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! The Minister of the Interior touched on the subject of the 347 debate, which also ties in with this draft. He described a situation in which the police must have the opportunity, for example, to infiltrate possession, where it is known that there is a larger group, including three korona - positive ones. That was the case for me, and I think thousands of other people have a question, but how do the police know that? Now I see that here in this bill is the key that lets the police know about people's health. However, I am saying that if we hand over to the police the human health data on the basis of which they can carry out criminal operations in violation of the fundamental rights and freedoms of the people, we will, in conjunction with these two laws, give the possibility of illegal surveillance and this is already a serious threat to the democratic regime. Confirm or disprove!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U772	Thank you very much. Democratic regimes are not in danger. On the contrary, the fact that we are very clearly regulating at the level of the law, in what circumstances which data are entitled to and who is not entitled to, at which time the right to receive and use such data is reasonable and inherent in the rule of law. There must be no abuse of data or rights, but it must be very clearly regulated, what rights are, what responsibilities are, and what situations are, where we expect the public authorities to cooperate very effectively, also to move data in order to prevent more damage. Right now we're talking a little bit about two drafts, but true, they're connected, absolutely, I'm not denying that. The amendments to the Infectious Disease Prevention and Control Act are in some respects compact, i.e. they aim to ensure better cooperation between institutions on the one hand and the availability of these data on the other. The package of amendments is, of course, wider. As I have pointed out, there are various bottlenecks, concerns that have emerged during the crisis. We have brought them before Parliament. And it certainly doesn't pay to see any of these risks here. Rather, I would say the opposite: there is legal clarity. The fact that there are legislative frameworks that everything is in place, coordinated between different ministries and other authorities, including the Data Protection Inspectorate, is just a sensible approach to avoid any risk of abuse and unclear moments.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U773	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U774	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The perseverance and ingenuity of the government in creating the health gestapo is, of course, impressive. But one of the chronic problems in Estonian health care has been that there are many databases that are not compatible with each other. Now, does this new system or the new architecture you want to create also require you to come with your hands for a long time and say that you need to create some kind of new electronic base, and it has a price tag, well, I don't know, 50 million?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U775	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. We are not here to ask for additional funds. Of course, health professionals are always happy when members of the Riigikogu support the preservation of people's life and health and channel additional resources into health care, whether through an additional budget or through the state budget or as a result of other draft legislation procedures. In particular, the same data, as I have referred to, are already collected in many ways. They are simply different databases that have been created during the crisis. This pandemic, the pandemic spread, has not occurred before during the period of Estonia's independence. In other words, the state does not really have the experience of managing such a crisis, especially in the key to e-government. It would now be reasonable for the necessary data to be collected not in such fast-track databases and only on the basis of temporary solutions, but in a specific register of communicable diseases. It is a register already in existence where certain data have been collected precisely in order to mitigate certain health risks, provide people with the necessary advice and support. These same data on close contacts and other such information would be available in a uniform manner in this register and with a very clear date for how long they are collected, how they are stored, who has the right to access them, etc. Rather, we do not make an additional request in the financial perspective, but in the longer term, central data collection is a safer way than having several fragmented databases.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U776	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U777	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I liked that you mentioned legal clarity. I'd like that legal clarity. What's our status? The Prime Minister said earlier that we are essentially in an emergency situation, which means that there is actually a normal situation. Now he's saying there's a medical emergency, but it's actually established by the Health Board. What kind of media should members of the Riigikogu read in order to tell their voters what situation we are in at the moment? And now I understand we're preparing for emergency action, but what's the emergency? Is this data no longer needed in an emergency?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U778	Thank you very much for your question. We are now in a health emergency, because this is the epidemic spread of a dangerous infectious disease in Estonia. We can see the spread of pandemics all over the world. These amendments to the law are, above all, reflected, which there is no surprise to anyone, namely from the current crisis, the experience of the crisis and the desire to gradually open up society as transparently as possible, thoughtfully. We want to avoid the emergence of new, dangerous monsters, while actively cooperating between authorities, in order to increase the coverage of vaccinations, in particular in high-risk groups, namely in sectors with potentially lower coverage and higher risk of infection. It is certainly necessary and reasonable to collect this data at this stage. It is a special situation, it is a risk of an emergency to a certain extent of cooperation in the field of health, of course, throughout the year, but in normal circumstances, all that I mentioned earlier, such as the transmission of close contact data to family doctors and other health professionals, is not explicitly provided for in the law, precisely so regulated that there is legal clarity here. And similarly, when we are talking about upgrading the register of communicable diseases, we are talking about epidemic distribution. It could be an epidemic of COVID-19 disease, it could be the spread of another viral disease that might come in the future. This procedure is not intended to address current health issues in normal circumstances.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U779	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U780	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Tanel, I had a huge burden spilled off my heart when you said that democratic order was not in danger. If you say so, I suppose so, all the more so than you're probably the Minister of Health and Labour forever. But more seriously, this bill is an extremely unpleasant example of a bureaucratic initiative that treats people as tree breezes that can be shaken from one ministry shed to another, from one occupation shed to another, that they are living people with their souls, with their worries, with their problems, which they may not want to know at all, even their closest ones, it doesn't matter. These are logs we put tags on and shake them from one department to another. This approach is completely unacceptable to me, and once again it reminds me of the Soviet time in which the KGB also produced all kinds of databases. And right now, I see a database is being compiled where a deep state can access data on people they can't otherwise get the data on. Don't you have the feeling that you're actually doing what I say, selling people to the deep world?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U781	Mr Helme, thank you for your question. There's no such feeling, there's no doubt about it. I know what it's like to move data within applications. In fact, however, the sharing of data is precisely in the transparency view now, one could say, less clear, less transparent. In the future, it will become clearer, more regulated, more correct, more verifiable and more secure in the perspective of individuals within this law. We are working on improving human health data, the protection of personal data, not the other way around. I agree with that, of course, that when we talk about people, we do not talk about logs. We do not disagree on this point. It is very important to understand in this whole view of resolving the health crisis that these proposals, these changes, are precisely what will help people. They help to reduce infection, help to increase the coverage of vaccinations, help to ensure better professional counselling and health care for close contacts and affected persons. This is a human-centred approach, not a log-centred approach.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U782	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U783	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I asked for the name of the person who wrote this bill. You didn't tell me that. Let me remind you of one very simple thing: if a tree ever grows up, it will always begin with one action, or the seed will be put into the soil. It can be done by one person, no one else can. And now I'm going to ask you where you first found out or from whom you found out if it's not your own idea that such a bill will be brought out. Don't talk about planting trees when you answer. Don't say anything else. I specifically ask for the name of the person from whom you first heard it or who brought this idea to your desk, or if you were the author of this idea yourself, say it. I just want a name, no other answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U784	Mr Grünthal, thank you for your question. Quite a threatening effect, frankly, by asking for that name, I must confess. But I hope it's random, not intentional. As regards the initiation and drafting of draft laws, this is a collective process. That's the honest answer. There is no bill written by one person from the beginning to the end, at least I don't know that. Maybe one day in the early days of the Republic, that might have been the case. Draft laws shall be drawn up by ministries in cooperation with the relevant agencies and other bodies. In this particular draft, the circle of partners is, of course, wide. On my desk it arrived at the regular weekly meeting of the Ministry of Social Affairs, where we usually review over 5 to 10, between 15 to 20 legal acts, these are draft legislation initiatives, answers to official letters, including questions asked by members of the Riigikogu and written questions. It's a normal process. If you ask me if I was interested in who the person who first came up with the need to supplement the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases or the Tax Administration Act, I did not ask that question. These processes generally take the form of collective work to address the concerns expressed in normal or crisis situations. What matters to me is whether the proposals for amendments are justified in substance, whether they are considered, whether they are intended for alternatives, which are the current solutions, which will improve, which are danger points. These are the questions, these are the concerns that every minister must take into account if he brings any draft law before Parliament and before the government. These discussions, of course, were held. They were very broad-based, between several ministries and also data protection experts. It was only after that that the draft came to the government and from there before Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U785	Kalle Grünthal, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U786	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to know whether the Law on Home and Rules of Procedure also provides that, if a person has a health disability, may he come and speak before Parliament. I specifically ask you to name a person's name, but he says something else. I don't understand whether a person's health is out of order or what the problem is. Does this law stipulate that a sick, say, person with health problems may come here to talk?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U787	No, we don't have a ban like that. But I assure you, there's no need for anyone to feel fear, all the more reason that you're in different houses. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U788	Thank you very much, manager. Good Tanel! Look, this whole legal clarity thing, it's a really good thing. But we're getting more and more mixed up in this material emergency right now. In the Riigikogu, we have two NETS proceedings at once, so neither the media nor the public can understand what is going on and why there are two of them. But now to this bill. The explanatory memorandum states that this is not related to European Union law. That's what it says in the explanatory memorandum. But, as far as I know, we have joined the GDPR quite recently, it is a General Data Protection Regulation that specifically defines how public authorities process personal data and what safeguards are created for people. So, I will ask you again: are you convinced that this European Union act, this draft of which we are currently discussing, has nothing to do with it? And don't you see any conflict with the GDPR?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U789	Thank you very much for your question. Such analyses and explanatory notes will, of course, be prepared by the legal departments of the various ministries and in good cooperation with each other, looking at, apart from the technical issues, our legislation and European Union law. If you have other proposals, ideas, it is, of course, possible in the course of Parliament's work to supplement this bill, to introduce changes if they are deemed necessary. That is, then, the decision of Parliament's plenary whether it is necessary and justified or not. I rely on the good work of my ministry's lawyers, those who have prepared this bill in cooperation with other ministries, in cooperation with the Health Board and the Data Protection Inspectorate, and, of course, also have thought about European Union law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U790	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U791	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Good minister! In one response, you said that all of this was necessary because new pandemics would inevitably come, in other words, according to your predictions, we will be able to live in a permanence health emergency. All these laws... are no longer... becoming permanent and affecting our daily lives. [[The call's hacking.]] I am saying that the permanence of an emergency in the light of these laws may not really be democracy anymore, but will have all the elements of the dictatorship. How do you intend to avoid this in the face of new and new pandemics, as you said? And do not forget that your good will to maintain a democratic regime, despite everything, may not last forever. And in the future, it could be very vicious. We know this saying that the road to hell is paved with good intentions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U792	Thanks for the question, good questioner. I think that it is precisely the power of the legislative authority to assess whether any legislative changes will help to strengthen the rule of law or vice versa. The role of the government is to make proposals; the role of Parliament is to adopt them as laws or not. And, of course, our best knowledge, the assessment, is that this draft will help to strengthen the rule of law, to improve the flow of personal data, to better regulate the flow of health data. Today, there is a procedure where temporary solutions are rather used, and a clear legal framework that contributes precisely to strengthening the rule of law. I will take this opportunity to dodge the previous question. The explanatory memorandum to this draft law indicates that the draft relates to the processing of personal data within the meaning of the General Data Protection Regulation and that an appropriate impact assessment is provided under other impacts in the impact assessment, section 6.2. So it is actually possible to read more about this question from there, who has an interest in it, as the previous questioner did.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U793	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U794	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You have already stated several times that these personal data are very well protected and kept, but today, corona testing, close contact, coronal infection and vaccination are in principle already public, entirely public data, even though they are personal health data, or sensitive personal data. And that's what they're talking about, the employer knows, the sick list says it's quarantine. Why are you lying about the data being protected? After all, they're public everywhere on the pages we read, employers know, neighbors know, everyone knows. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U795	Dear Kert Kingo! My point in previous responses was clearly that the procedures for storing data in the different registers must be clearly regulated, including the conditions and duration of their storage. This is precisely what this law would do to ensure better. When people reveal their own health data to someone else or do so for them, one hundred percent of them, of course, can never be ruled out. The person himself is always entitled to disclose his or her health data; in the case of others, really much depends on the particular situation, but generally other parties should not disclose his or her health data. What you have pointed out is that somewhere there is information about someone, such as those vaccinated, I think that I am not wrong when I say that I have not shared the health data of any person in this way with the public, just myself.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U796	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U797	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Very honourable Minister! I remember the ordinary situation in the context of the debate on military service. The Ministry of Social Affairs was then very clearly of the opinion that this is a constitutional offense when a citizen shuts down his health records and the medical committee, the state that wants to employ a young man or woman, does not show these data. In fact, the state takes responsibility for the citizen, but it does not know exactly what a particular person's problem or condition may be. Does this bill give the medical college the opportunity to see digital history when we recruit people for national defence to ensure the state's continuity in emergency?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U798	Thank you very much for your question. Yes, these debates have really been there, and it is still the case that people have the right to decide who can access and see their data in digital history. People will continue to enjoy this right. This draft does not concern other areas. The focus of the proposal is very clearly to prevent the spread of epidemics: precisely in this light, in the light of the crisis, clearer regulation of cooperation between institutions during the epidemic, the necessary legislative changes, the creation of a register. We are dealing purely with the protection of public health in the event of the COVID-19 crisis or any other widespread viral disease. Other issues will be dealt with separately by the government and Parliament during the debate, but not within the framework of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U799	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U800	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! The Estonian people have such a proverb that the lice always thinks about the sauna. If I recall the cluster bill sent back to the president last spring, the only concern was that in the information line that was written in it, volunteers are going to get awfully and uglylyly crazy about the health records. Your coalition partner was the one who kept asking about it. I now ask if you have noticed that your coalition partner is already demanding these health records in order, let's say, to inform pharmaceutical companies where the region of medicine people might need and to create an artificial deficit so that they can also raise prices. Have you already observed the misuse of these data by your coalition partner?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U801	Thank you very much for your question. No, none of this has been observed, either by a coalition partner or by any opposition party.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U802	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U803	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. [[The call's hacking.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U804	Sorry, sorry, this isn't working!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U805	...screamed and... It is extremely hypocritical when you speak there that, oh, it is the legislator to do, and you will decide, and if you do, it is, and that is the expression of the will of the legislator. You know perfectly well that you're ramming through it. You're gonna ram it, but of course we're trying to stop it. You know very well that a considerable proportion of the members of the Riigikogu are against this and also against the second Nets draft. You know very well that there are demonstrations before the Riigikogu for more than a week, because people do not want this kind of subjugation to their deep state and police state. And yet you're cynically making such an ironic face that it's up to you. Please don't!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U806	Thank you. There was not much question here, but I dare to advise you that there could be more faith in the Estonian state and less fear of any deep states and other countries. Estonia is still a strong rule of law and we are building it together.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U807	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U808	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I can assure you that there is and will be no faith in the Estonian state, but there is no faith in today's government. The government has epicly failed its disease control measures. But I have a question. You will collect and exchange all data in the future as planned. The B.1 strain of this Chinese plague is tipless in Sweden, i.e. vaccine resistant and half infectious. The borders are still open. Does the government collect data on who comes into our country? And if so, how are they compatible with this new database to be created?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U809	Thank you for your question. When we are talking about the current draft, we are talking in particular about the daily work of the Health Board, or crisis management, by collecting data on close contacts between infectious patients, which are needed by family doctors to carry out the activities necessary to support the health of persons. This does not apply to persons who come from abroad. This is a separate line of the Police and Border Guard Board to decide, within the framework of its legal competences, on the establishment of different databases and the execution of these databases, as is the case for entrants. In particular, we are talking about third countries, we are talking about other controls. This specific draft does not address these issues. This concerns, in particular, moving the necessary data from the epidemic view to reduce infection lesions, increase coverage by vaccination, and improve medical supervision and support for close contacts with infected patients.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U810	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U811	Good manager! Good Minister Tanel! I've been in touch with a lot of people in person over the last few weeks, especially by e-mail. People are very concerned that your government is building a police state. I've been doing this till this morning, until this afternoon. And these people aren't so-called lamemen. These are well-educated young middle-aged people. Tell me to calm them down, yes, especially to calm them down, that they don't understand at all. But why the government or who sent so many policemen to surround Toompea today? I haven't seen it in a long time. What was it for? Who are you afraid of? Or maybe you're not scared.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U812	Thank you very much for your question. Not afraid of the Estonian people, why should they? The people of Estonia are reasonable, responsible and generally want good. As regards the demonstrations before the Riigikogu and the work of the Police and Border Guard Board to ensure people's sense of security, the Head of the Police Department, the Minister of the Interior, will certainly be better able to comment on these issues. The Minister of Health and Labour really does not deal with ensuring the necessary security in demonstrations.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U813	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U814	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. What does this new database or collection have to do with the CIS? And, like the health information system, is there an opportunity for people there to restrict access to their personal data, as it is in the CIS? My colleague Andres gave us a good example of the fact that the doctors of the Defence Forces do not have access to the records of the conscripts who serve in their unit.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U815	Thank you, Leo Kunnas, for your questions. The health information system is not related to this draft or to the register of communicable diseases. All that concerns the area of the Defence Forces referred to and, more generally, the restriction or granting of access to their data in health information systems are separate things. The Register of Infectious Diseases is a database of the Health Board and it is true that the data collected there will be made available as appropriate, as indicated, in the event of epidemic spread or in other situations referred to before. People's records are stored there for a certain time. You can't choose for yourself there. If he is infected or in close contact, of course, this information must be there and known, just as it currently exists in the database, so that the government can ensure that orders are monitored. Efforts must be made to ensure that a person stays in self - isolation, does not infect others, and that his or her own health and life are thus better protected than he or she normally spends ten days at home and is convinced that he or she does not have symptoms. After that, you can return to your normal life.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U816	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U817	Thank you, Minister, for this very thorough presentation and for calm and firm answers. I'm sure it will soothe all the people who are concerned about handling this bill. But I'm gonna go ahead with the questioner. I would like to ask you for the same explanation of one concern that several people have raised. Consider the hypothetical situation in which the state has imposed the obligation to wear a mask in a public space, the police see one person who does not wear a mask, step up and remind him of that obligation. A person says he can't wear a mask because of his state of health. If we adopt this law, will the police have the right to access human health records in any way to see exactly what the condition is? Or does he have to, like, believe a person now or ask for a piece of evidence at the maximum opportunity?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U818	Thank you very much for your question. There will be no additional access to ordinary human health records with this bill. In the case of this draft, we are talking about the status of close contact with the patient and the status of the infected person in the case of infectious diseases of particular concern. We are not talking about any other diagnoses, any other health concerns that people may have, which really exist in the information system and elsewhere in the databases, but that does not allow them access. As regards the specific question of the obligation to wear masks, in this case the obligation to cover the nose, it is true that at present there is no need for a person to justify this non-property in any other way than to clarify that he has a specific health or other convincing reason. Nobody gets sanctioned for that. Whether or not in the future the government will decide to take additional preventive measures to prevent the virus will depend on the government's possible decisions. Then, of course, in the context of this particular decision, we must determine what happens when a person says that he has some health or other convincing reason not to wear a mask. In any case, I personally support a liberal approach which, above all, takes into account the sound choices and behaviour of people. The Police and Border Guard Board has also confirmed that the majority of Estonian residents follow the instructions and wear the mask precisely to protect their own health and the health of their loved ones. The collection and issuing of any such evidence is, in my opinion, not appropriate. The point of wearing a mask is not to restrict people's freedoms in any way. On the contrary, we must strive together to get out of the crisis more quickly and to maintain everyone's health.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U819	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U820	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good minister! However, I have become very incomprehensible about the reasons why two separate drafts have come to the Riigikogu. If we have one NETS already submitted by the government, why could this draft not have been added to it? Why do we have to treat them separately? Can you give me a reasonable explanation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U821	Thank you very much for your question. It's a very understandable question. In fact, there are many changes. If we look at 347 SEs, there are also different issues of recompense of sick leave, quarantine issues. At the time, we actually discussed the possibility of initiating all of these changes in a single package, but since certain questions were precisely in the case of this 358, a more precise discussion was needed with the Data Protection Inspectorate and the Office of the Chancellor of Justice, precisely to make sure that all these risks were to a maximum extent grounded, that legal clarity was guaranteed, 347 SE was initiated somewhat earlier in its current form and was handed over to Parliament earlier. Of course, Parliament has the right and the possibility of linking drafts in the course of its work or otherwise deciding on their procedure. They are very clearly linked, and I have pointed out before that they can certainly be dealt with together in this view. But the theme circle on two drafts is pretty big. Here are indeed the issues of the sick list, the questions of the quarantine sheets, the issues of surveillance, the topics of the various databases, as well as the necessary technical changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U822	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U823	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You mentioned in one of your responses that for some time these data will remain in the database. So I ask you this: how will the time be set for them to stay there? And yet how does this database interact with other databases? My colleague, Oudekki Loone, asked about wearing a mask, but there are still some gestures, such as whether a person has been vaccinated. This leads to the retention of information in the database and the use of this database up to the point where it is available from the employer, whether the person can take part in the work or whether he or she must be away from work for some time, up to the circle of close contact. Is this the subject of a separate provision? Why don't you explain this side a little bit?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U824	Thank you, very clear question! Indeed, when we are talking about the register of communicable diseases, which is, as has been said, the database of the Health Board, the separate legislation determines both the data sets, the deadlines for storing them, as is the case with national databases at all. The Data Protection Inspectorate is also agreed with the Data Protection Inspectorate to comply with all Estonian and international laws. What kind of data are collected, how long are collected, who has the right to access them, all such questions. When we are talking about the register of infectious diseases, as I have pointed out, it is also a desire to collect, in addition to infectious patients, precisely those data that also concern people who have given the negative test and the close contacts that have been vaccinated. This is a comprehensive overview of what is necessary to prevent the spread of the virus and to control both current government orders and possible new enforcement.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U825	All right. There are no further questions for the Minister. Thank you. I call Siret Kotka, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, as rapporteur for the Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U826	[[Remote connection]] Hello!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U827	We can hear and see.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U828	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! At the meeting of the Social Committee of the Riigikogu, the draft law amending the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases and the Tax Administration Act was discussed on 22 March this year. The Minister of Health and Labour, Tanel Kiik, introduced the content and purpose of the draft, which he also did today with great courage, and therefore I will not recount it to you. Of course, he also answered additional questions from the Members of the Commission. The questions asked by the Members of the Commission were such. Since family doctors are also in close contact with the issue of the sick list, they were asked if the family doctors would now receive further information. In addition, the minister replied that family doctors are currently only receiving information about close contacts who themselves contact the doctor for a sick report. From now on, a list of people who are in close contact with the list can be communicated to the family doctor centres during an emergency. The family doctor can then contact the patient himself and give the necessary instructions. Another question was asked about the same thing that Andres Metsoja has already referred to here: if a person shuts down his medical history, this data will still be available. The Minister, as he said here in answering this question, said that this is not the case. However, the family doctor can still contact the patient, as the infectious disease registry will send a message when someone is in close contact, and the family doctor will then be able to give the person the necessary instructions and other information. Interest was also expressed as to whether the draft has been agreed with the Data Protection Inspectorate. This was confirmed by both the Minister and the officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs that the draft has been agreed with the Data Protection Inspectorate and approved by the Inspectorate. Following this, the following consensual decisions were taken: to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 7 April, to propose the completion of the first reading, to appoint Siret Kotka as the representative of the commission and to set ten working days for the submission of amendments in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U829	No questions for the waitress. I'm opening negotiations. Kert Kingo on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U830	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The explanatory memorandum to this draft law, or the Act amending the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases and the Tax Administration Act, sets out the main objective of this law to support the resolution of the health emergency in Estonia. However, when we look into this draft and analyse it in greater detail, we see that, in addition to extending the scope of collecting personal health data, I am thinking of collecting increasingly detailed and specific data, there is also a plan to include in the law a point according to which the Health Board will provide the necessary data from the register to the law enforcement body involved in the performance of its tasks. The same data collected on people in the health information system will be taken into account. This means that if, in parallel with the draft pending in the Riigikogu, 347 provides for the right of the police to perform the tasks of the Health Board and, in this connection, the right to use different means of coercion against persons and the national supervision measures laid down in the Law Enforcement Act, this bill also intends to give the police access to the health records of persons. Thus, on the initiative of the government, in combating the corona epidemic, the rights enshrined in our constitution are to be rejected: everyone has the right to family and privacy, everyone's property is untouchable and equally protected, and the home is untouchable. At the same time, in Question Time today, the Prime Minister said that people travelling to the country are obliged to comply with our constitution. Hypocritical selectivity, isn't it? Also, the term 'delicate personal data', their protection and its importance have been forgotten. The outcome of the corona test, close contact or vaccination for the employer, neighbour or schoolmate, for example, has become public and even mandatory information. It is as if human health data were not sensitive personal data that were not yet allowed to be passed on to outsiders, even though they were still there. The current government is secretly and dirtyly trying to violate the constitutional rights of our people, through other laws, without blinking at the same time about the rule of law and belief in it. Such action and behaviour is certainly not appropriate to the rule of law, as most people understand. There is no way to agree and support this draft. Therefore, the Estonian Conservative People's Party proposes to reject the draft 358. The proposal for rejection has been submitted to the Management Board of the Riigikogu electronically. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U831	I don't see any more requests to speak. We have received a rejection proposal from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Let's get to that vote. Before that, it's a slug. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to reject at first reading the draft Act 358 on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would remind you that if the electronic system is unable to vote, it must be signalled before the results of the vote are announced, otherwise it will not be possible to send a voice by e-mail. I shall put to the vote the rejection of draft 358. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U832	There have been no protests. There are 19 delegates in favour of the proposal, 58 against. The proposal was not supported. That concludes the first reading. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 21 April at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U833	Let's move on to item 7. First reading of the draft bill 352 of ratification of the Protocol amending the Double Taxation Convention on Income and Capital Taxes between the Republic of Estonia and the Federal Republic of Germany, initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Estonia, signed on 29 November 1996. We've got Secretary of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U834	[[Remote connection]] Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has submitted to the Riigikogu for ratification a protocol amending the long-listed treaty, the double taxation convention between Estonia and Germany signed in 1996. The main incentive for the conclusion of this protocol has been the need to bring the agreement into line with the minimum standard developed by the OECD in order to reduce opportunities for base erosion and profit shifting at international level. In order to prevent tax evasion, a general anti-abuse rule is included in the agreement. This rule allows the tax authorities not to apply the benefits provided for in the tax treaty if the facts suggest that the benefit was one of the main purposes of the transaction. The protocol before you will also change the preamble and title of the agreement. The title shall include a reference to this same objective: to prevent tax evasion and fraud. The preamble also states that, in addition to avoiding double taxation, the objective of the tax treaty is to ensure that tax fraud does not result in any non-taxation of revenue. In addition to these amendments, the Protocol supplements Articles 9, 10 and 13 of the Agreement. In Article 9, the Article of the Related Parties, a new paragraph is added, which provides for a counter-correction obligation in another country for transfer pricing adjustments in one country. The dividend article, which is Article 10, specifies the conditions for applying a more favourable rate of income tax in the source country for the distribution of dividends. And in Article 13, the benefit of the disposal of assets in the Article, a new paragraph is added according to which the State in which the property is situated has the primary right to tax the proceeds of the disposal of such holdings, the value of which results at any time during 365 days prior to the disposal to at least 50%, directly or indirectly, of the real estate. I ask for this very important draft to be supported without any doubt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U835	Thank you. There is also a question for the rapporteur. Please, Dmitri Dmitriev!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U836	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Finance! For the sake of clarity, I am asking about Article 4 of the Protocol amending Article 10 of the Agreement as regards the taxation of dividends. In this context, I wonder whether and to what extent a contract with Germany will have an impact on the taxation of the dividend paid to both a non-resident natural person and a non-resident company.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U837	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. That's a good question. The answer is that it doesn't affect it. The agreement with Germany does not affect the taxation of dividends paid to non-resident natural persons and this particular agreement does not affect the taxation of dividends paid to the company. These previous regulations remain valid even after the ratification of this protocol.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U838	I don't see any more questions. Thank you. Let's go to the co-report. The co-rapporteur is Dmitri Dmitriev, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U839	Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance discussed the draft, including on 23 March. Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus gave us an overview of the content and purpose of the draft. The review was sufficiently detailed and the Members of the Commission did not raise particular substantive questions. Therefore, the Commission made the following consensual decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by Wednesday, 7 April, to close the first reading, to set 10 working days for the amendments, i.e. Wednesday 21 April at 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U840	You have questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U841	[[Remote connection]] Good manager and waitress! Here's the question. There's been a bill like this. Is it even possible to oppose such a bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U842	Thank you, my good colleague. Practice shows that every draft can be voted against, but I, as the Minister of Finance did, still call for support for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U843	Looks like there's no more questions. We can go to the negotiations. Do the political groups want to negotiate? The political groups do not see the wish for negotiations either. In that case, the lead committee has proposed to close the first reading of 352 and the first reading is closed. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 21 April at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U844	Let's go to the last item on today's agenda. The eighth item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic on the financing of the European Union re-launch plan and the approval of the Council of the European Union decision on the system of own resources (353 OE). The rapporteur is Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of Finance. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U845	[[Remote connection]] Good deputy speaker! Honourable Riigikogu, I thank you for this opportunity to hold a debate in Parliament on this important subject, despite the late hour of the evening. Last July, a month after the devastating health crisis reached Europe, the Heads of State and Government of the European Union agreed on an extraordinary package of funding for European Union policies from 2021 to 2027. It was clear that the deep health crisis, which was accompanied by a sharp recession, required rapid and vigorous behaviour, required joint action. The creation of a re-launch plan for the EU of EUR 750 billion is important, not only in the context of overcoming the coronavir situation. It is a significant shift towards a truly united and united Europe, towards the European Union. It is no secret or surprise that for Estonia, the survival and functioning of the European Union, recovery and new growth are existential interests. Such a fragmented European Union, where everyone would only fight for themselves and keep their fingernails to themselves, would be disastrous for us, for Estonia, whether it is the view of the economy, security or the everyday life and everyday life of people. The re-launch plan, which will help those countries that have been most hurt for independent reasons, in the post-crisis situation or, in fact, in the crisis that is still ongoing, is the most hit, and the entire facility, which is financed jointly, will certainly make the European Union stronger and also make the future more secure. This decision made last year in the heart of summer is, you can safely say, also in the direct interests of Estonia. Out of the re-launch plan, EUR 390 billion will be channelled through the EU budget as grants to Member States in order for the economies of the Member States and of the European Union as a whole to grow and emerge from the crisis as a strong one. In essence, it was decided, through joint lending in the short term, to leverage the European Union's budget by more than a third so that not only the Member States, but also the European Union itself, would react countercyclically to the recession that has arisen. Almost ten months ago, on 15 June 2020, the then Head of Government, Prime Minister, also gave Parliament a comprehensive overview of the re-launch plan and its funding. So this debate has been held in Parliament several years ago. It must now be said that the first quarter of 2021 is over, the crisis is still with us, but what the citizens of the European Union still do not see is the money promised for relaunching Europe. That is why this debate is also taking place today, and this draft has been submitted to you. The European Commission cannot borrow the relaunch money on behalf of the European Union on the market until all Member States have actually completed their national actions to approve the own resources decision. The first payments under this joint loan would be made to countries in the summer, provided that all Member States have approved this decision by then. As of today, 13 Member States have ratified the decision and it is known that the majority of Member States are planning to reach this decision by the end of May. Understandably, the mandate of the Riigikogu is equally necessary. Without the approval of the Riigikogu, the plan to relaunch the European Union cannot be implemented or implemented. The European Union's re-launch plan is, in itself, a good proof or a sign of the European Union's solidarity, that the countries most hit by the crisis, who have suffered the most and are still suffering the most from the crisis, will receive more support. At the same time, the burden of repaying the loan still depends mainly on the wealth of the Member State. The greater the share of the country in the total national income of the European Union, the greater the burden on that country to repay the loan. Estonia will receive support in the order of up to 0.8% of GDP in six years. This is, according to current knowledge and calculations, a total indicative amount of EUR 1.5 billion. The support given to Estonia is 0.39% of the total amount of grants under the European Union Re-launch Package, while our average refund burden will be approximately 0.26%. Why do I highlight these numbers or bring them out? If anyone, let's say, cynically tries to approach or make calculations in this key, then [it should be taken into account that] the re-launch plan is not only that the European Union benefits collectively, but also by looking at Estonia separately, it is literally profitable. The support available to us is about 48% higher than we will pay back in a long time. It is also very important to acknowledge that this borrowing is common only in the sense that the European Commission will have the power to issue bonds on behalf of the Union for the implementation of common policies. In other words, no Member State guarantees the repayment obligation of another country; each country is responsible for its own part of the repayment. If a Member State were to decide to take a loan of up to EUR 360 billion from the loan instrument of the re-launch scheme of the European Union in addition to the loan facility, this option would not, of course, affect the budget of the European Union or affect other Member States at all. The repayment of a loan to increase the EU budget's expenditure policies by 390 billion will take place on a consistent schedule over more than 30 years, through a contribution to the EU budget. A long schedule of loans benefiting from a favourable interest environment allows for a very long repayment period and the cost of servicing the loan is likely to be less than 5% on average of the budget expenditure of the European Union. Good Riigikogu! The own resources decision that you have before you also contains another important change that I would like to introduce. For the first time since Estonia's accession, a new source of income, a new own resource, is an own resource based on the quantity of plastic packaging that has not been recycled, is also introduced to finance the budget of the European Union. The debate on new sources of income itself has certainly been on everyone's eye, it has been going on for a long time, it has been going on for years. The voice of the European Parliament and its role in standing up for new own resources have also become increasingly strong. Why is it necessary to do such a thing in the first place, or why is it necessary? To sum up, this is, among other things, a desire to stimulate or motivate the achievement of the European Union's common policy objectives through the collection of European Union revenue. In any case, nature, environment and climate protection are also important objectives of the European Union. At the same time, plastic packaging, which is not recycled but which ends up either in nature or in a dump, is actually becoming one of the major global environmental problems. This is an issue that certainly needs intervention at both Member State and European Union level. Data on packaging recycling definitely need critical clean-up. According to current knowledge, in 2018, i.e. the last year we currently have data on, more than 55000 tonnes of plastic packaging waste and 35000 tonnes of these waste were not recycled, i.e. almost 60% is the part that Estonia could not recycle. It has to be acknowledged that, as of now, we are weaker than average in our recycling capacity in the European Union. By comparison: the European Union average is about 42%, it was about 42% in 2018, but in Estonia this percentage was about 38. This is certainly a type of problem that, above all, requires a rather decisive and broad change in behaviour. The new own resource of the European Union, the amount of which, as well as the amount paid by the State to the budget of the European Union, still depends specifically on the amount of plastic packaging recycled in a Member State, is an additional incentive which, in its own way, forces Member States, for practical, financial reasons, to find faster solutions to one major environmental problem. The new package-based own resource in itself increases Estonia's contribution to the budget of the European Union. Based on 2018 data, it is estimated that this increase will be around EUR 11 million per year. But, of course, it is true that the more ambitious we are, the more capable we are of recycling packaging waste, the less our contribution will increase. So this should, hopefully, be a dwindling and environmentally significant resource and source of revenue that will make the Member States act faster and more efficiently. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, I ask you to support the draft before you. This decision also depends on how quickly we can adopt the recovery plan and the recovery facility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U846	Thank you. There are also questions for the rapporteur. Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U847	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Secretary! It's kind of sweet to hear you define a new tax by calling it your own resource. But let me remind you that the tax remains a tax, let's call it whatever it is. Last Friday, in essence, the Bundespräsident in Germany was removed from the fingers of a pen by which he had to sign the same loan agreement. This is about the German Constitutional Court, and it is not known how long. Many constitutional lawyers from European universities also claim that such joint borrowing is seriously contrary to the underlying documents of the European Union. Paragraphs 310 and 311 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union state that the European Union must not borrow from financial markets. It's black in white, there's no other way. The European Union is at a stage of change and dangerous change. Do we have, do you, as a minister, or do the officials of the Ministry of Finance have the hope that this extremely harmful ideological loan will pass us by?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U848	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for your question. There were a lot of arguments that, of course, could be argued for a long time. First of all, there is no new tax in the bill before you. Unless you and your group want to come up with a proposal to introduce a new tax, no one in Estonia, not even any of the parliamentary parties, has made such a proposal. And the German reference. The dispute before the German Constitutional Court is known. No one can say exactly when this deadlock in Germany will be resolved right now. But the German government is optimistic. That is what I can and we can all refer to, and we do not have any other knowledge of this matter, as regards the dispute that is going on in Germany. But now your reference to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and to Article 311. Of course, this is probably a peculiar interpretation. In fact, Article 311 states, inter alia, that the Union is providing itself with the means necessary to achieve its objectives and to implement its policies. The legal service of the Council, the legal services of all the Member States, has, of course, been analysed quite thoroughly on this whole legal side. Last year, the Estonian government commissioned legal analysis from the University of Tartu and the legal analysis commissioned by the same then government says that there is no conflict with the Treaties. So we can rely on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U849	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U850	[[Remote connection]] Happy approaching midnight, Madam Minister and Good President! It's nice to talk about a lot of money here in the middle of the night. But the specific question is that if taxes do not come, as you assure us, but the debt is still foreign, then how much do we have to pay back and how many years we have to take into account, Madam Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U851	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for your question. The principal repayments of this loan will start in 2027 and will last in a single division until 2058, with just over 30 years. Estonia's share of this repayment is around 34 million per year, which means that this repayment is about 0.13% of our GDP. This percentage will, of course, clearly decrease, because it is expected that our GDP will start to recover well after the crisis is over. We are looking forward to a new rapid economic growth in the second half of this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U852	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U853	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! Indeed, our economy has suffered quite badly. I believe that we have managed and can continue to define quite precisely where these are the most painful and where there is the greatest need for this money or for helping at all. But I ask you if you can think about this possibility too, if we could perhaps take out the loan we need and not participate in it with the European Commission, with the user manual that the European Union has provided, and in that sense also in a joint loan that violates our sovereignty. Perhaps we could achieve much more of our recovery targets and do so in such a way that we can channel subsidies into sectors that are indeed in the interests of our national and national economies. I also ask how this decision is in line with our 2003 referendum mandate, which promised to join the Union of States, but now we have reached the United States of Europe, where the association has its own taxes, its own debt, its own budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U854	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Fortunately, the European Union has had its own budget for a long time, and it has certainly enabled countries where the standard of living of people is still below the average of the European Union, including Estonia, to develop its economy significantly faster, to make reforms much faster, which have ultimately helped both to increase and maintain people's incomes and to create jobs. This re-launch plan as a whole, the re-launch facility, is certainly a huge opportunity for us to reform and to help out of the crisis precisely those sectors where such additional impetus is urgently needed. Through the Re-launch Facility, we will be able to channel EUR 1 billion (the final order of magnitude, as we know, depends on how quickly our economy recovers from the crisis, because if recovery is faster, the additional support we need will be smaller), and according to current knowledge, we will be able to channel a billion into digital jump, new technologies, but also in the health sector that will definitely need support. Through this same re-launch plan, we will be able, among other things, to channel additional funds into the Rural Development Fund. The Fair Transition Fund, which will certainly help Ida-Virumaa very significantly, will provide an additional EUR 199 million of support. This is a very important additional support that we can use thanks to the Re-launch Facility and the Re-launch Plan. I think it's reasonable and wise for us to use it ourselves. Moreover, it is certainly crucial for Estonia that the economies of the Member States of the European Union, the European Union as a whole, do not suffer a long economic crisis, because our own economy is so intertwined with the economies of other Member States of the European Union that, if it were long-term, we would certainly suffer from it. Therefore, I think it is important to look not only directly at Estonia's own financial benefits but also at the impact of the Re-launch Facility on helping the entire European economy to get going again.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U855	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U856	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Dear Minister, If I understood the explanatory memorandum correctly, the plastic resource will give Estonia an estimated EUR 11 million in higher taxes, which is because, as you rightly pointed out, we have a poor situation with plastic waste. I fully agree with you that this own resource could increase the motivation of Member States to reduce plastic waste and increase recycling. You have a unique experience. You have been the Minister of the Environment who knows these organisational problems from this side, now you are the Minister of Finance and you know the work done in the Ministry of Finance on packaging excise duties and the failure of producer responsibility organisations. Consequently, my question is how it motivates you and your participating government and what steps and reforms to make this EUR 11 million considerably smaller.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U857	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. That's a very good question again. In addition, I have experience as a consumer and I have to say that this experience does not confirm that it is always very convenient to give away plastic packaging or even packaging everywhere in Estonia. I think this is also one of the important things that needs to be improved. People who, I say, are increasingly environmentally conscious in Estonia and are increasingly ready to sort themselves and are interested in contributing to this, in order to be able to recycle the resource, should actually be comfortable to do so and give away their packages. With the Minister for the Environment, but not only the Minister for the Environment, there are, in fact, quite a number of analyses and discussions on how to change this system first so that collection is more efficient and reasonable. Secondly, in the case of packaging, it is certainly important to reduce their formation, to reduce the number of packages at all, to reduce plastic packaging in order to reduce the placing on the market of packaging and endless incremental production. This work is also under the leadership of the committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U858	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U859	[[Remote connection]] President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister, My question is what happens if a country is unable or unwilling to pay back its share. Who's gonna pay?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U860	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. As has been said, each Member State is still responsible for its own share. If there really should be a situation where a Member State is temporarily or for whatever reason failing to make a specific payment, this responsibility will not go away. The responsibility for making its own payment at one point remains with that particular Member State. If, as a result of this non-payment, the European Commission has to temporarily ask other countries for a payment that has not been made in proportion, it will later be offset against the defaulting payer. But I think it must be stressed once again that this in itself is not new as a solution; it does not arise with this current decision. Such a right, if necessary, to ask Member States for such coverage, money, is already in place in the past in order to fulfil their obligations. Similarly, it has already been right in the past to ask the other Member States to cover the outstanding part of one Member State. It never needed to be used. No Member State has, in fact, failed to fulfil its obligations to the European Union budget. I believe that will continue to be the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U861	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U862	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. My question repeats the question of Uno Kaskpeit a little bit, but maybe I'll explain a little bit. The European Union was created as a union of states, as was said here, and its aim was to support and secure each other in food. Now there's an abundance of food. There's no need for that anymore. Now we have common money, we are moving towards a federal state, we have common loans. I, too, am actually interested in what these rates are and how they are set. If, for example, a Member State withdraws, what happens then? Article 311 states that the budget is financed from own resources, whereas Article 125 states that a Member State does not take responsibility for the obligations of other Member States. We already have those Member States, such as Greece, which are unable to repay this money. I have not heard of any country going bankrupt or that the insolvency administrator would demand that money back. Who, then, is going to pay back the money, or how will it come out of this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U863	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Greece, of course, has done quite a lot of the reforms envisaged by the other Member States of the European Union and the corresponding plan, despite some very serious problems in between. Tempo has not been as everyone expected, but important decisions have also been made in Greece. Once again, I say that it is still the case that, should some Member States develop a situation in which they do not fulfil their obligations to the European Union budget, the right to ask for proportionate additional resources from other Member States is a system in place and has been a system in place for some time. This has never been necessary, because all Member States have fulfilled their obligations to the European Union budget in such a way that it has never been necessary to implement it. However, when it comes to the importance of the European Union and the importance of the European Union, it is certainly no longer a matter of food supply or of being reduced to it. As I said in my introductory speech, from the point of view of Estonia, the functioning of the European Union is absolutely necessary and important not only in economic terms, but also in terms of security for Estonia. If we had a completely fragmented, disintegrating, bickering European Union, would you imagine that Estonia would be able to develop the lives of its people better than today, and we would be better off? The situation would be exactly the opposite. In any case, it is also in our interest that the European Union as a whole should emerge from the crisis and work well.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U864	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U865	[[Remote connection]] Minister, thank you very much. First, I dare to open up. It is precisely this hijacking of power by the European Union that led to the crisis in the European Union and deterred the British. So hijacking power is the problem that keeps making it worse. The European Union is famous for filling the grey zones with what comes to its mind. In this case, we are in this situation again. Has there not been a debate on supplementing the Treaties? After all, this is such a huge phenomenon of scale that leads us step by step to the common budget of the European Union, to common taxes. How much has been said about opening up and amending the Treaties, according to your information? Do you think that's right?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U866	[[Remote connection]] A good former colleague from the Committee on Foreign Affairs! Our different view of the European Union is known. We have also disagreed on the importance and role of the European Union in the past. The party you represent has also had a very different mind or very sceptical, to say the least, towards the European Union, a strong European Union. There have certainly also been political forces in the European Union which raise the issue of the opening of the Treaties, which have done so sooner, and they will probably continue to do so, but at the moment, and in connection with this draft, there is no debate going any further.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U867	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U868	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President. Good minister! Honestly, it's pretty terrible what I hear. You're saying it's in our interest. But first, I do not understand where the positions and promises of Estonia's earlier governments are that Estonia will no longer accept the introduction of new pan-European taxes. It's just like it's gone. Now you're saying that we're only going to have $34 million in cash, that's 750 billion. But we know that this is not the only burden, because this 750 billion will be added to the part of the 560 billion crisis measures. The rain radio said that the total rescue package of the European Union will actually be 2.4 trillion. We paid back an average of 230 million per year to the European Union budget in 2014‐2020. Now, from 2021 to 2027 we pay 350 million a year. I'll add another 34 million at 750 billion. What if it's going to be 2.4 trillion? Isn't there some kind of border around here?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U869	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Interestingly, I have not noticed a very serious debate about the fact that, for example, the sums to be taken by Estonia to service their own loans have increased in recent years. In 2018, the amount to be paid to service the loan was another 17 million, by now, by 2021 it has risen to 499 million, and most of this increase came in the last few years, but I have not noticed that this would have caused you much concern or that you would have been very critical because these payments increased at this rate and in volume. I am absolutely convinced that the people of Estonia have won a great deal of the European Union and the investments they have made with the support of the European Union, and I am... [[We've lost contact.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U870	We've got a technical glitch. We've got the picture back. Is there a sound?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U871	[[Remote connection]] I think I got back. I can't even tell you what moment it disappeared.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U872	Well, one half a minute ago. We can continue. Do I take the next question, or do you want to add anything else?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U873	[[Remote connection]] Since I do not know where my answer was interrupted, I may simply repeat that I really am absolutely convinced that without being part of the European Union, the lives of our Estonian people would be significantly worse. We certainly have won membership of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U874	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-07_U875	[[Remote connection]] We had a brief discussion here that the German Constitutional Court was discussing this issue. Why don't we wait for the result? Why do we have to ratify it now and now?
