ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U1	Dear President of the Republic, Kersti Kaljulaid! Honourable Riigikogu! Dear members of the outgoing government and the new government! We will begin the 3rd working week Tuesday session of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. To begin with, members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to hand over drafts and questions. The members of the Riigikogu do not have the wish to transfer drafts and enquiries. Ladies and gentlemen, please check your presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U2	93 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present; there are no eight members.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U3	Ladies and gentlemen, President Kersti Kaljulaid appointed the Government of the Republic formed by Kaja Kallas by his decision today. According to § 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, the Government of the Republic takes office by taking an oath before the Riigikogu. Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic taking office Kaja Kallas, I would like to ask you to take an oath of office in the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U4	Honourable President of the Republic! Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable outgoing government! Good Riigikogu! In taking on the duties of a member of the Government of the Republic, I am aware that in this capacity I am responsible for the Republic of Estonia and my conscience. I solemnly swear to remain faithful to the constitutional order of the Republic of Estonia and to devote my strength to securing the well-being and future of the Estonian people. [[Prime Minister Kaja Kallas will sign.]] Please take the oath of office of ministers of my government. Andres Sutt, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology. Minister of Education and Science Liina Kersna. Minister of Justice Maris Lauri. Secretary of Defense Kalle Laane. Minister of the Environment Tõnis Mölder. Anneli Ott, Minister of Culture. Minister for Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse. According to the new era, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Aas, takes his oath by way of remote participation. Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus. Minister of State Administration Jaak Aab. Minister of the Interior Kristian Jaani. Minister of Social Security Signe Riisalo. Minister of Health and Labour Tanel Kiik. Foreign Minister Eva-Maria Liimets. [[Ministers shall sign the text of the oath. Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U5	Easy, easy! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! We're gonna make it, we're gonna make it to congratulations. Let me read the decision of the President of the Republic: "Decision No 692 of the President of the Republic on 26 January 2021. Release of the Government of the Republic. I hereby dismiss the Government of the Republic under the leadership of Jüri Ratas, appointed on 24 April 2019, following the entry into office of the new Government on 26 January 2021. Basis: § 78 (10) of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, § 92 (2). Signature: Kersti Kaljulaid.' So, ladies and gentlemen, I congratulate the Government of the Republic that has taken office and thank the outgoing government for the work done. Mr President Kersti Kaljulaid, you have the opportunity to congratulate the new incoming government, and all colleagues [have this opportunity] in the same way. Attention, all colleagues of the Riigikogu! The opportunity to congratulate the new government and thank the outgoing government is now open to all of us in the White House. I'll take the manager's break for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U6	Ladies and gentlemen, The break taken by the President is over, and we can continue today's session. Let's get to the agenda. The first item on the agenda of today's sitting is the second reading of the draft law amending the law on the implementation of the common agricultural policy of the European Union initiated by the Government of the Republic. And I would like to ask Tarmo Tamme, Chairman of the Rural Affairs Committee, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U7	Thank you, manager. Ladies and gentlemen, Governments are changing, but Parliament is still working, and even though the new government is still in office, the drafts are already in place. You have before you the draft law 245 for the second reading. And I'm talking about how the procedure took place in the lead committee for the first...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U8	I'm sorry! We have a draft 227 on the agenda, not 245.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U9	Oh, I'm sorry! That's next. Thank you, very, very good point. Although both of these drafts concern agriculture. But then let's go to the second reading of the draft that was on the agenda earlier. Procedure in the Steering Committee between first and second readings. The draft law amending the Law implementing the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 14 September 2020. The first reading of the bill in Riigikogu's plenary session took place on 24 November 2020 and the first reading was closed. The draft law amending the Law implementing the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union has been developed in relation to the need to amend the implementation of support for the beekeeping sector and to supplement the list of measures for which no evaluation of aid applications is foreseen. The amendments related to the implementation of the support for the apiculture sector shall aim at a more effective implementation of the apiculture programme by including the results of the apiculture programme in the annual activity report for the apiculture year and by implementing the e-service environment in the PRIA in the processing of support. The purpose of supplementing the list of measures for which no evaluation of aid applications is foreseen is to facilitate the processing of aid applications and to speed up decision-making on applications. The Committee on Rural Affairs discussed a draft law amending the Law implementing the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union 227 at its meeting on 18 January 2021. Arvo Aller, Minister of Rural Affairs, Marko Gorban, Deputy Chancellor of Agriculture and Rural Policy of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, Kristel Maidre, Head of the Agricultural Policy Department, Jaana Lepik, Adviser to the Legal Department, and Helen Palminõm, Head Specialist. No opinions or proposals were submitted to the Commission in the process of inclusion. The draft has been sent to the verbatim and translation department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu for technical and linguistic purposes, and the comments of the language editor accepted by the representative of the initiator of the draft have been included in the text of the draft. The deadline for submitting amendments was 5.15 p.m. on 8 December 2020. No amendments were received from members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees. Procedural decisions of the commission of directors. The commission adopted a decision to send a draft law amending the Act on the Implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union initiated by the Government of the Republic to the Riigikogu for a second reading by 26 January 2021 with a proposal to terminate the second reading and, if the second reading is completed, to carry out the third reading on 10 February and to put 227 to the final vote. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U10	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U11	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! In the case of beekeeping, I recall the previous composition, where it was always a problem for Germans to have molecular biological technology that is very accurate for honey quality [evaluation] and origin [proofing]. Did you, in the Commission, also come to this question, which is preventing us from moving over three years to honey tracing technology?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U12	Thank you for your question. This draft is not directly covered, but it has been mentioned in the Commission. This is also being done in Estonia so that the country and region of origin of honey can be determined. It's very important that we don't get cheap honey from anywhere. And we know that if we still go to the market and buy honey, we're gonna buy this real Estonian honey. It's being dealt with. The Finns have gone further than us, but it's on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U13	Thank you. No further questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U15	Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. No amendments to the draft have been tabled, while the proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft 227. That concludes the second reading and this item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U16	Let's keep going. Today's second item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Act on the Implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Tarmo Tamme, Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U17	Thank you. I already did the introductory part, but let's start over. The draft 245 will then be at second reading today. The procedure between the first and second readings in the Steering Committee was as follows: The draft law amending the Law implementing the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 21 September 2020. The first reading of the bill in Riigikogu's plenary session took place on 24 November 2020 and the first reading was closed. The draft law amending the Law implementing the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as the "EUCAPS') lays down the conditions for obtaining an import licence for hemp seed intended for purposes other than sowing and provides the Minister responsible for the sector with a mandate for import and export management measures instead of the Government of the Republic. More specifically, the amendments to the EUCIPS regulate the precondition for obtaining an import licence for hemp seed for purposes other than sowing, the obligation to submit documents on the use of hemp seed to the person who has obtained that import licence and the competence to carry out checks on its requirements by the Office for Agricultural Registers and Information. The Minister responsible for the sector is given the opportunity to introduce more precise requirements for obtaining approval and, in addition, the mandate rule of § 53 of the ELÜPS is amended. No opinions or proposals were submitted to the Commission in the process of inclusion. The Committee on Rural Affairs discussed a draft law amending the Law implementing the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union 245 at its meeting on 18 January 2021. Arvo Aller, Minister of Rural Affairs, Marko Gorban, Deputy Chancellor of Agriculture and Rural Policy of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, Kristel Maidre, Head of the Agricultural Policy Department, Jaana Lepik, Adviser to the Legal Department, and Helen Palminõm, Head Specialist. The draft has undergone technical and linguistic reorganisation in the verbatim and translation department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. The deadline for submitting amendments, which was 8 December 2020 at 5.15 p.m., did not receive any amendments from members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees. The commission adopted a decision to send a draft law amending the Act on the Implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union initiated by the Government of the Republic to the Riigikogu for a second reading by 26 January 2021 with a proposal to terminate the second reading and, if the second reading is completed, to carry out the third reading on 10 February and to put 245 to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U18	Thank you. You have questions too. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U19	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I kept listening to these hemp seeds for activities other than sowing... Maybe, well, we know that seeds also produce oil, I take pumpkin seeds here, pumpkin seeds are also eaten. I'm aware you can't eat bean seeds, they make you drink drugs. But what are those other activities? During school, it was forbidden to air the mugs through the ballpoint pen shell. What activities are these that are forbidden?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U20	Thank you. What is forbidden, this bill does not deal with. In today's media, you can read somewhere that some cannabis seeds were removed from a shop, but the purpose of this bill is to make it more flexible. So far, the authorisation was organised by the Government of the Republic on the basis of a mandate rule, but now it can be done by the Minister for the relevant field, gets more flexible and easier.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U21	Thank you. No further questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U22	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U23	Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. No amendments to the draft were tabled. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 245. We're done with second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U24	Let's keep going. Today's third item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Food Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask Ivari Padari, member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U25	Ladies and gentlemen, The main objective of the amendment to the Food Act is to reduce the administrative burden on food business operators, to use the possibility of introducing more flexible requirements for the premises and premises of the company and to allow the marketing of food of animal origin on the basis of notification obligations. The proposed amendments to the draft act relate to the area of food hygiene covered by the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. It is therefore necessary to take account of the principles, obligations and possibilities arising from these regulations when amending the law. In particular, the principle should be taken into account that, in the case of flexibility in the application of food hygiene requirements and the replacement of authorisation obligations by reporting obligations, a high level of protection of human health in the food sector will not be reduced and that food that has been properly handled will be safe for human health. It should be stressed that the general requirements for food hygiene continue to apply and are to be met by food business operators starting and already operating, regardless of the size or activity of the establishment. The Committee on Rural Affairs discussed a draft law amending the Food Act 228 at its meeting on 19 January 2021. At the meeting, the amendment submitted to the Commission for consideration was examined and procedural decisions were taken. Anneli Tuvike, Deputy Head of the Food Safety Department of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, and other specialists took part in the meeting of the Commission. In the process of involvement, the Estonian Food Industry Association announced that it had given its feedback on the amendment of the Food Act to the Ministry of Rural Affairs during the drafting phase. The Food Union has highlighted two important messages that the country should implement for the sector. Firstly, communication among operators must be planned, both before and after the entry into force of the legislative amendment, as awareness of requirements is very low for micro and small producers in particular. The information about the waiver of authorisation has already been treated as a duty-free activity. However, reporting obligations do not imply non-compliance with the requirements when processing food. Secondly, changes in the organisation and procedures of supervision must be planned and food safety ensured in the broadest sense and fair organisation and competition ensured. The representative of the initiator of the draft act confirmed at the meeting of the Commission that they consider communication to be important, that they have already started and will continue to do so. Information days will be carried out, information texts will be prepared for publication on the website and guidance material will be prepared and distributed. The representatives of the Ministry of Rural Affairs confirmed that the draft does not change the general principles of supervision. Rather, the second point in the letter from the Food Union concerns the internal organisation and procedures of the Agriculture and Food Board, which are established by the head of the agency. The deadline for submitting amendments was 8 December 2020. No amendments were received from members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees. The commission itself, in cooperation with the representative of the initiator of the draft, drafted an amendment to amend the provision for the entry into force of the Act. The original date of entry into force of the Act was 1 January 2021, which will be replaced by 1 April 2021. As the date of entry into force of the Act is postponed by 1 April 2021, the same date should also be laid down in the implementing provision governing the transfer from the obligation to notify to the notification obligation. The Commission decided on the amendments by vote. Procedural decisions of the commission of directors. The commission adopted a decision to send a draft law amending the Food Act initiated by the Government of the Republic to the Riigikogu for a second reading by 26 January 2021 with a proposal to terminate the second reading and, if the second reading is completed, to carry out the third reading on 10 February and to put 228 to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U26	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U27	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good waitress! Was it also discussed in this draft that food or food could be treated differently in different regions of the European Union? For example, for sami, seal fat is food, but for Italians, it is already on one side of the boot rate, it is for internal use, on the other side it is external. Or, for example, our sauerkraut is an energy source for the French to produce biomethane. Is there any way to harmonise these things?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U28	Thank you for your question. No, it was not dealt with in the procedure for this draft, because it is these geographical differences which, for example, were already agreed upon when they joined the European Union in different areas. Differentiations are given for the production of products that are such a national characteristic.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U29	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U30	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I have a question that is motivated by the former statement by President Ilves that we must teach America to grow food instead of growing food. What about today in the European Union? Do we grow more food or food from which we can cook?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U31	Thank you. I think that there are both in the European Union, as in the world. There is a very industrial production where it is important to obtain high volumes and low prices. And I don't want to judge that either. On the other hand, there are handicrafts or tailors' activities where food has more of this character. When we are talking about this specific draft, this particular draft is very good in the context of the draft: freer opportunities are given for culinary tailoring. So those who are first producers today, or farmers, will be given better opportunities, how they can recycle and how they can trade. After all, this has actually been a very big debate over the whole period of independence, when this eye of the needle has become so thin that there is no more human way to market it. That is the answer to your question, which is obviously the industrial side in the food industry and agriculture, but on the other hand, the side that gives freedom of choice, taste and quality comes into play more. "Freedoms of quality" cannot even be said here, because the general rules on food hygiene are still valid.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U32	Thank you. No further questions for you. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. One amendment to the draft has been tabled. This amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Rural Affairs itself and the lead committee to take full account of it. No further amendments have been tabled. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 228. That concludes the second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U33	We will go to the last item on the agenda today, which is the first reading of the Bill 283 of Amendment to the Estonian Law on Public Broadcasting, initiated by Kalle Grünthal, member of the Riigikogu. I ask Kalle Grünthal, a member of the Riigikogu, to serve as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U34	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The good people of Estonia who watch the broadcast via the TV bridge! I have submitted a draft law amending the Estonian National Broadcasting Act, which aims to create legal clarity in the activities of Estonian National Broadcasting, which would correspond to the application of the principles of public media service, and to align the Estonian National Broadcasting Act with the Commercial Code. The aim of the draft is to ensure that the Estonian Public Broadcasting in the production and transmission of its programmes does not ignore the principle of political balance or favour one party or political movement to another. The draft also amends internal control to ensure compliance with legal requirements. In addition to the above, the Estonian National Broadcasting Act is brought into line with the Commercial Code and with that of the rights, obligations and responsibilities of the council and board members, as in this case the rights, obligations and responsibilities are completely confused, figuratively speaking like porridge and cabbages. In drawing up this draft, I have based myself on some of the standards laid down in the Broadcasting Act which was in force until 31 December 2006, because they were very good standards and would certainly contribute to compliance with the legal principles of public service broadcasting. When I report the bill, I will not read all the paragraphs because you have them, but I will focus on three basic principles. I would like to point out, both in terms of the reasons for the draft and to the questioners, one important point which should be discussed during the discussion of the draft. First of all, the starting point: what is the legal status of national broadcasting? As a result of the preliminary remark, it is precisely the definition of this starting point that is a crucial issue for dealing with this whole amendment of the law. So, what is the legal status of national broadcasting? The answer to that question is provided by § 2 (1) of the National Broadcasting Act, which states: "The national broadcasting is a legal person governed by public law established by this Act. " He is subject to a separate legal regulation. Now, the following question: how do we define the term 'public legal entity'? There is also an answer to this definition. A legal person governed by public law is created by law in the public interest, i.e., I stress, in the interests of society. Here is the question: what is society? I am not going to refer here to the classic concept of society, according to which the three sectors of society are the public sector, the private sector and the non-profit sector, but rather to the dominant one, which is man, because in fact, the human factor is the basis of all other sectors. So, who is society made up of? I think there is no dispute that society is made up of minority groups that have different world views, different interests and perceptions of what is happening in the world compared to other groups, and very often the principles of minority groups about what is happening in the world contrast. I'll make a small list, to understand. For example, the interests and views of conservationists and forest workers, atheists and believers, abstinences and wine throwers, supporters of the traditional family model, the marriage of a man and a woman, and supporters of the same-sex marriage, may conflict and even collide in a sense. The list could, of course, continue, but all these examples converge under the common denominator of society. Now that we know both the legal status of national broadcasting and the concept of public interest, i.e. social interest, we can move on to the task of national broadcasting, for which, in simple terms, it is possible to reflect the issues affecting society through our programmes and programmes and to serve the public interest and to report information that must also be reasonably controlled, i.e. to give all the stakeholders of which society is made up, the opportunity to speak on the basis of their own outlook and principles. What distinguishes national broadcasting from commercial channels which are relatively free in the production of their programmes and programmes, but with certain characteristics? Due to the current law, national broadcasting programmes must be balanced, including politically, contributing to social cohesion in society and reflecting different opinions and beliefs. And actually, here we come to the problem that has caused my bill to be submitted. I agree that the tasks that the ERR should perform are defined in the current law. This is mandatory for all producers and editors of the programme. But, unfortunately, it is only as a general rule in the so-called self-control and regulated national broadcasting law, and I dare to assume that I am forgiven if I am wrong that most editors have not even read it. Why am I so convinced? As an example, the same-sex marriage shows with rainbow-coloured flags on the screen and the studio were visited by gay and lesbian activists invited for interviews. If anyone wants to say that those who support [traditional] marriage were given the opportunity to express their views on the same scale, it is a direct lie that is not based on facts. I will give an example of an interview during which, after submitting this draft, the ERR asked me: what is the reason for this draft? Of course, I explained it. However, in response to my question of the number of opportunities [for proponents of traditional marriage] to express their views, the reporter who interviewed me was in trouble. He could only say one reflection, which was giving the title of the Father of the Year, and that was all. I think that, in the light of this example, the law should be amended, because the self-control introduced by the new law on national broadcasting has not worked. In principle, editors, as well as host managers, have a fixed opinion that they have unlimited freedom to perform programmes. Already this preliminary example is a reference to the fact that there has only been a preference for a single social group. By the way, these examples can be further mentioned. We know how politically events were reflected, for example, in America, where the majority of the messages came from the democrats, the Republicans had little, very little, and Trump's views were presented relatively, I could say, ironically and derogatoryly. [It must] be avoided that the principle of political equilibrium in national broadcasting disappears (in the last example) and that social groups are selected according to the view of the host or editor. This is not right and is not in accordance with the current national broadcasting law. This situation is very easy to remedy. According to the Broadcasting Act in force before the National Broadcasting Act, there was a responsible editor who verified compliance. Since I myself have worked in Estonian Television for a year as a programme director and editor, I have a vision in this regard. I can recall that each morning there were meetings that set out the topics to be addressed and an assessment of the previous day. True, I myself received criticism and other criticisms when it was turned away from the so-called neutrality point of view. This is the idea that this is the primary internal control of national broadcasting in order to ensure that the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act is properly implemented in the editor's office. There's nothing weird about this. These internal controls apply to the police, and certainly to banking. That would be extremely necessary. The position of editor in charge would also be important because neither the editor nor the host would have direct propaganda in favour of one group or another of society, as was the case when promoting same-sex marriage. By the way, the importance and nature of propaganda in achieving a certain objective is very much emphasised, as all activities are not only active but also in the human head. In order to win hostilities in a person's head, each "warrior party" uses to mislead him, distorting information, exaggerating, conveying subjective or inaccurate information at times, even fictional information, only to gain support among the people and to confirm that his opinion is correct. The "warrior party" also does everything to prevent information from being passed on to the opponent. This fight is called a propaganda war. Thus, propaganda serves the purpose of a deliberate and systematic attempt to shape human perceptions, manipulate human knowledge, and direct human behavior in order to attain the desired goals of propaganda. Such propaganda, however, is unacceptable at the level of national broadcasting. In this case, based on the example of same-sex marriage, only one social group has been preferred, leaving entirely behind supporters of the traditional family model, the union of men and women. This is not a principle of balance. Since this point of law has not been complied with, the establishment of a responsible editor is indispensable. In addition to verifying compliance with the principle of balance, the responsible editor is also responsible for reporting to both the Governing Board and the Council. I have added another point to this draft, which I think is also very important. In particular, the Government of the Republic establishes a list of events which are considered important for the Estonian public and which should therefore be communicated in such a way that a significant part of the public can freely participate in all or part of them, live or later [in the form of recording]. By the way, there was such a point in the previously applicable Broadcasting Act. Unfortunately, the current situation has been that national broadcasting often does not reflect very important issues. I will give an example here of when the COVID issue was discussed last March, whether or not to declare a pandemic. In fact, the whole society was waiting, waiting very hard for what would happen. But instead of reflecting it, the ERR showed some movie. I've heard later that it was a technical mistake. There is no technical error on this issue. So I think that national broadcasting could and should also carry these functions, because it is public and its target group is the whole society. That's what people need to get. In the absence of time, I'm gonna talk a little shorter. The entire governance structure should certainly also be reviewed. I have referred here to the Commercial Code, because all this governance structure has actually been taken over from the part of the management of the Company Code, which contains certain changes that make the Council, as the highest management body, virtually ineffective. For example, in my opinion, it is not at all possible to recall the members of the Bureau at this time. If the Chairman of the Management Board can be called back, for example, in the event of serious mismanagement or serious violation of this law, a reasonable question arises as to what is a serious mismanagement and what is the serious violation of this Act. In any case, the word 'heavy' is an undefined legal term because it is unknown what we classify as such values. Finally, I would like to say that, in fact, the draft I tabled has had quite a strong response, both in the social media and in the public media. There have been extremely positive assessments at the social media level. Also, Rein Lang, who, as I recall, has participated with Märt Rask in the development of this law that is currently in force, has stated on the live air on Kuku Radio that there are also very many good points in this law. That is what I am ending up with, and I am ready to answer the questions that have been asked to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U35	Thank you. You really do have questions. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U36	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! A few months ago, we had the opportunity here to deal with the European Union Film Directive, which also used the terms "violence" and "pornography" [and said] that they would not come from co-financing. There was talk of violence about hate speech law, but we didn't get to those debates. It is very difficult to understand what justified violence is, because in my opinion, any violence is unwarranted if, perhaps only by a hunter's mercy shot, but it is again unwarranted by someone else. How is it regulated? And the other thing is pornography. I would like to remind you that, in the opinion of the occupying country, the band Sex Pistols was also a pornist who could see it from which side. Can you tell me how to determine these things that violence will start from here on out and that there will be justified violence from here on out?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U37	I think that this question goes broadly down to the following. Violence as such is undoubtedly possible in today's film industry and other programmes, but there are also films and programmes that have immense cruelty. And here, in fact, I would not be setting this limit as an amendment, which could still be left to editors and programme producers. I can't explain it because I'm not a media officer. There are criteria here. The same thing actually applies to pornography, there is also a'sick threshold' here, who will decide on this issue. I would like to leave this decision in the hands of the producers of the programme.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U38	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U39	Is this bill also intended to limit current covert advertising in national broadcasting?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U40	I think this concept of covert advertising is a very important issue that deserves attention. While I worked on Estonian Television in 1994, the so-called coverage of hidden advertising in programmes and video clips was monitored with utmost care. For example, when you did an interview with someone and it happened that the computer was behind the interviewer's back, at one point the screen guard went out of the way and the company logo started running there, this video section was instantly rejected. Hidden advertising [to avoid] is possible to choose the angle of the shoot also on the site, you do not have to do it under any kind of advertising sign. Of course, advertising was subject to a charge, but these principles were also followed and reviewed in all the material that was being broadcast. I don't know how much it was, but I know there were situations like this at the time when some editors or host executives made a little extra by making some kind of clip and getting a little extra on their bad paycheck. I'm not going to name any names here right now, it's been so long, and that's why I don't have any evidence. But I remember it that way. Here we now come to the second question: is it really possible to make a 'hidden' ad now, in which case you may also have a little bit of self-interest in the game. I am saying that this is possible now because the host or editor chooses the subject, he reflects it exactly how he wants it to be, and there is no institute like the responsible editor who would say stop, it is already an ad-shape thing, here it is a matter of revealing the host or editor's personal views. I stress that national broadcasting does not actually equal commercial television, but transmits all information aimed at public society.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U41	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U42	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I watched "Wake Up" on ETV2 on Sunday, and I think that we still have a duty to future generations to show the cruelty that has been done to us. It was about the violence. I don't think we need to grow a generation of snowflakes and tell them that deportation was actually a free adventure to the beautiful places of nature. But my question is this: a lot of people turn to the ethics advisor of Estonian National Broadcasting and suspect that it is a robot, because there are always answers as if they are merely related to the subject or are involved in it. How would you say it would be possible to change the ethical advisor function there, apart from the editor-in-chief or editor-in-chief, to make this feedback work? It was very difficult for me that it was our anniversary of the deportation, and then the film "Seventeen Spring moments" was shown.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U43	Thank you. Your observation is correct. In the draft I have tabled, I have removed the seat of the Ethics Council because, on the basis of the information received by me, it is only the examination of complaints and the preparation of answers, but it is all done in such a way that there is no criticism at the appropriate editorial address or at the host. So, let's say, there's a wash. The seat of the Ethics Council would actually be filled very well by the same responsible editor, who sends 'direct' feedback to the people, which is wrong, whether any legal principles have been violated, whether there have been fewer reflections, whether any information has been given unfairly. He is now in direct contact with the complainant. And the question is also that he can directly introduce corrections to his editorial work if one, the other or the third needs to be changed, or draw the editor's attention to the fact that such things should no longer be reflected in such a form, or to give air time to refute incorrect facts. And, of course, I would like to bring in another fact here, which has also been the eye of national broadcasting. Let me give you one example right now. Remember when Johannes Tralla interviewed Mart Helmet, if I remember correctly, it was on "The First Studio" and in a very attacking style claimed that EKRE's people were throwing stones at Mrs. Kross? In fact, this information was only received through social media and was unchecked. Although the current rule of the National Broadcasting Act states that such unverified facts should not be reflected, this situation took place. The question is not at all Mart Helmes; the question is now that the Estonian Conservative People's Party was actually blackened by presenting uncontrolled facts. I ask, "What's next? I don't know, nothing. Everything works on, the host works and performs programmes. I know there were complaints about this, but I'm asking if there were any results from the ethical review. I dare say I didn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U44	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U45	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I, too, have been on the National Broadcasting Council for some time, and I can assure you that no one is ever responsible for anything on the board of national broadcasting and on the creative collectives. There is no answer to who took this decision or who is behind it or why it was motivated in this way. As a well-informed optimist, or pessimist, I generally doubt whether the responsible editor you have proposed will be able to carry out this task, because, in fact, the current law also provides for a certain degree of control and responsibility. But if the world view of this responsible editor is identical to that of journalists who are cultural Marxist or politicians, I fear he is not authoritative enough. Do you see any other way of controlling your proposal for an amendment to the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U46	Thank you for your question. I have actually referred to this, I am not going to point out at the moment that the responsible editor is accountable to both the board and the Council in his or her activities. I assume, however, that he is not able to act according to his own worldview, because it is known that he, the responsible editor, is an employee, and if he does not comply with the employer's demands, then it may be that for him the position of the responsible editor, or any position in national broadcasting, ends in a disaster. His contract of employment is simply cancelled because he does not fulfil the obligations for which he has been appointed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U47	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! As the idea of presenting this bill is a greater balance of national broadcasting programmes and you also mentioned the "Ringview" programme, as an interesting fact, I can add to your presentation that in the years 2013 to 2018, the person who worked as the responsible editor of the same "Ringview" received the same "Ringview" from ETV to work directly from the responsible editor to the Office of the Reform Party, namely the Communication Manager of the Reform Party, which continues to perform until today. Do you agree with me that, as a result of the above, at least theoretically there may be a possibility that a person who, after leaving the "Ringview" program, is already working for a long time as Head of Communication of the Reform Party may use his/her links to bring certain ideological issues to this programme in a consistent manner?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U49	Thank you. I'd say it's an obvious fact. The question is, well, I haven't been here very long, but this soon two-year time in the Riigikogu has shown that there is a very interesting factor. It was enough for our former good colleague, Katri Raig, to send a message that there was a debate on something in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, although it had never even reached the debate, only some sort of draft or, in other words, a proposal had arrived on the table, the content was not yet in the back when the cameras were already waiting at the door. It actually happened over and over again. I have also tried a few times to call the cameras for a very important question, but I have failed. If we look at the whole picture, actually, in my opinion, maybe I haven't been around all the time, about 2/3 of the interviewed are always reform parties. And the principle is that regardless of whether it is some excellent thing previously presented by the Estonian Conservative People's Party, which has found coordination, instead of asking the people of the EKRE for an opinion on the matter, they are looking for a criticism dart and nowhere but specifically from the Reform Party. I would argue that your observation is absolutely correct. In this hall, too, reporters use the so-called political preference principle, which really means that, as always in life, only through connections and connections get what you want. But this is not in line with the idea of the National Broadcasting Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U50	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U51	Good manager! Good waitress! I've been a journalist and journalist for a long time. I found a public letter to the National Broadcasting Council in 2008 entitled "Who Has the Monopoly of Truth?'. It was 2008. There I quoted the esteemed Siim Kallas. I repeat, I have great respect for him, his intellectual abilities and his proposals. And now my question to you. I quote what Mr Kallas, the former Deputy Editor of the Voice of the People, has said: 'Besides politicians and officials, the journalists and publications in which they work should also disclose their political background as well as their economic interests. Then the picture would be clearer, who's still eating from the party and whose song is singing. " My question is, do you support Siim Kallas' proposal? Perhaps you should propose such an amendment to the draft that you have tabled.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U52	I think, dear colleague Peter, that your observation to introduce this fact into this bill is reasonable in my opinion. I do not rely on any facts, I do not want to say anything specific, but I do not understand one thing, and I can only rely here on my empirical experience since 1994. Why do editors do this grateful and difficult work, as well as host executives, when the sandwich given by the state is so thin? But they still do. There are two reasons. One is human ego, he likes to be the object of attention. He has the pleasure of being known on the screen by the public, completely understandable. There are people who do so with heart and affection. They like the job they do, which is because this sandwich is thin. But I also noticed that there are people who are doing this job to serve secretly from the side. These funds don't run anywhere, they don't know how to move. I can't say specific facts, but for me, it's kind of strange and suspicious. Maybe I'm wrong, and God forbid I'm wrong, but these things need to be checked. Why are political preferences given in a sense to both politicians and interest groups? Why is propaganda made beyond the framework of this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U53	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U54	Thank you. Do you hear me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U55	I can hear you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U56	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Kalle! It is very gratifying that you have raised this issue and that we can speak honestly and openly on these issues. We know that Estonian Public Broadcasting receives about 40 million euros a year from the taxpayer, but in addition, there is quite a lot of financial resources being used from outside to produce the programmes. You already told me about who pays, it's ordering music, maybe covert advertising. We know that the ERR has the right number of shows where there should actually be a label "Consumer Marketing." Quite a lot of money comes from the European Union's media programmes, and their condition is that programmes must be propaganda programmes from the European Union. In this regard, they also bear a very strong world - sighted seal. Would your bill help to make the process of moving money more transparent, fairer and balanced?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U57	Thank you for your question. I am honestly saying that I do not know how to answer this question of whether this bill can and can make money move in such a way that it is transparent. The non-transparent movement of money is known, actually. Even banks have money laundering cases. I highly doubt that [transparency], but we all want to be optimists. I do not believe that this bill now makes [the movement of money more transparent]. However, he does change the way propaganda, as the good questioner called it, is not reflected indiscriminately and is not an order job. I'm convinced that he's an order job. First of all, the same-sex marriage. Why was it always promoted, with rainbow banners, with demonstrators, with interviews? Since I am a member of the Committee on European Union Affairs, I also know that the European Union actually imposed three conditions on Estonia regarding the granting of a large financial package relating to COVID: firstly, the adoption of the hate speech law; secondly, the support for migration; and thirdly, the legitimisation of same-sex marriage. On your point, I would like to state that this process, in my opinion, may not coincide with yours, it was directed from the European Union instead. I don't know if the money was allocated for this, although I think some money is still moving, but it's not possible to look for their tracks. We can't even get any concrete evidence of bank money laundering, yet these funds are moving. These things happen in secret. But what we get with this bill is that we can create the principle of balance for all members of society. In fact, society is not such a majority. The same majority that we call the majority is actually made up of minority groups that simply form the majority on certain issues. But we cannot and must not, by this law, promote only one social group under the conditions of the ERR.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U58	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U59	Thank you very much. Good Kalle! Since the ERR in its current form is essentially an unhealthy competition on the media market, as is the status of a market scumbag, would it not be more reasonable to completely reorganize the ERR and write a new law in order to ensure the integrity, clarity, specificity and policy neutrality of the ERR's activities, i.e. real compliance with the general public interest? What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U60	I kind of agree with you, good Paul. Hercules once cleaned the stables in a sense should, yes, carry out such cleaning [also in the ERR], review, perhaps there is something that should be changed in terms of leadership, managers, and others. I don't want to argue that all the broadcasts should be driven out of there. No, it's definitely not. Everyone who's done this job has done it well. The question is more about how much he has limits, how much he can realise his views and how much he can walk in accordance with the current law, which must ensure the balance of the public media. This principle does not really apply to private channels, where there is a program and the production of programmes relatively free.. well, depends only, say, maybe only on the owners of this programme. But as I began my discussion today, I outlined the principles and principles that public television is bound to follow.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U61	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U62	Good manager! Good waitress! It hasn't been so vulgar in the Estonian press for a long time, that someone would give you money. As editor-in-chief, editor-in-chief and long-term leader of the Society of Journalists [I dare say] it may still be in the Russian press somewhere, but not in Estonia. Have you heard about the press saying he's a watchdog, a community watchdog? As a dog owner, I know that the dog is already reading from the master's eyes what needs to be done. You don't have to give me an envelope. But I quote again, yes, that of the idol Siim Kallas, once written. Siim Kallas writes: "Time - based literature itself has become a field where different truths and lies mercilessly fight one another. Unfortunately, one defends himself from the top of the hill, the other is forced to fight in the swamp. One sees far away, the other wind blows smoke into the eye. It's time to tear off the masks. " Years have gone by, but the situation is exactly the same. Don't you think...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U63	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U64	... that this fight is hopeless, even if a person like Siim Kallas has long recommended it and said what should be done?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U65	I don't think this fight is hopeless. After all, once Heinz Valk said the sentence, "One day we'll win anyway!"
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U66	Thank you. Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U67	Thanks for the word! Honourable waitress! In fact, we are facing a problem here in Estonia that is also facing national or national broadcasting in other parts of Europe. A few years ago, Neeme Raud, who had left national broadcasting regrettablely, had a religious discussion with the head of Danish national broadcasting, who referred to the very same political activism as a major problem, which has violated the credibility of Danish national broadcasting. The fact that editors transmit their agenda rather than mediate impartially is a problem and not just in Estonia. There is one particularly drastic example of Estonia. In public broadcasting there is only one political editor who was recruited in decision-making, without the slightest competition, directly from the head office of the Socialist Party. I mean, Thomas Sildam...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U68	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U69	... who has promoted social democracy and left-wing weather without any moderation or restriction. Tell me, please, if there is any way that we can turn the law into a future in such a way that people who have been politically marked do not go to work on national broadcasting or that some sort of, I don't know, seven-year transition period is introduced, that if you leave the party, you will not be able to work on the ERR until after some time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U70	I don't know exactly what to say now, but I suppose we have political views here in the Riigikogu that can change in a matter of moments. I mean, once you're in the Centre Party, then you're in the Reform Party, and vice versa. So I don't know if this definition and, let's say, working at a place like this for seven years, if I get it right now, it makes sense. But I wouldn't really go that far, because we actually have the levers to stop all this systematic, one-way propaganda. We have the law on national broadcasting, and if, let's say, in your example, this principle of balance is ignored, then there are sufficient grounds for quitting the employment contract because the person does not fulfil the obligations imposed on him. Regardless of the world view he's a socialist, he's a reformer, he's an EKRE, or he's a Central Party, that doesn't matter. The question is, if he complies with the law, he can do his job. It is exactly the same in traffic: if we are speeding or speeding indiscriminately, we will be fined for it, and if we repeatedly violate traffic regulations, we will be deprived of our permits. The exact same principle should and could and could actually apply to national broadcasting. If the editor fails to perform these tasks, no matter what his world view is, what his opinion of the whole political situation is, he simply either meets the requirements of the law or is forced to leave, it is his choice. These levers are actually there now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U71	Ladies and gentlemen, The Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure shall provide for a period of one minute in which the matter may be referred. I have been very well-intentioned so far as President [to cross the timeline], but I will see that as a rule we have questions that take one minute in advance, and only then will we start asking a question. I have a request that we try to fit the question and all our previous comments into one minute. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U72	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! Should the ERR in its programmes be guided by general established moral standards? On ERR's birthday, for example, there was "Night TV" on the air, which introduced the Svinger Club in depth, and the host gave a very detailed overview of their activities, which still seemed more like advertising and seemed like propaganda. That's what I'd like to ask you about, Kalle. Do you think it is appropriate for such things to be promoted and advertised in our national broadcasting?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U73	Thank you for your question. I've already spoken of the essence of Propaganda. I wouldn't want to go here right now to the editors' playground about what they're doing. It is important that their activities comply with the provisions of the National Broadcasting Act. However, I agree with Mr Kingo as the author of the question that the same moment of hidden advertising is shining through here. And we don't know what the condition was. Maybe the subject was really interesting and people want to know it, but everything can be done in a different way. I remember very clearly how, in 1994, when Armin Bear opened one of his first casinos at Kungla's restaurant at the time, I went there to do a story, and I also filmed that, oh, great machines, etc., gambling money was coming. We did interviews there. And then right now, Vahur Lauri, working in ETV, said I'm sorry if I'm wrong, it's pure propaganda, it's advertising aside. And that's what happened. Actually, here it is, let's say, maybe the same lines of force for this responsible editor. A specialist who is focused and knows the entire production of this program and also knows the principles that are passed on will understand, in my opinion, I think he understands whether it is advertising, custom work or simply an informative story. One story can be done differently, for example, about the same club of swingers that was mentioned here. And this is where the editor or the host's own fantasy is important, but he shouldn't go back to advertising level.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U74	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U75	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Jaan Tõnisson, the Estonian statesman and the great journalist of the press, held a strict order in Postimees, so that the journalist had to reflect the course of events with complete impartiality when drafting the report or news story. If the journalist wanted to express his personal position on the subject, it had to be put at the end of the story and it had to be made clear in advance that what was expressed in this paragraph was the journalist's personal position. Today, such a spirit is no longer present in private media, and publications and stories are strongly inclined towards the journalist's personal sympathies and antipathy and worldview. Do you agree with me that, in a situation where private media houses and journalists have mostly taken ideological positions, the greatest and most important task of the ERR is to provide the society with impartial and balanced information, a picture of the media, and if the ERR itself fails to ensure this role, then progress with your draft is absolutely necessary?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U76	Thank you, good questioner! I think that this remark is entirely appropriate. With this draft, we certainly do not regulate the activities of private channels. They've got all the boundaries open, exactly how the owner allows it. However, you have rightly referred here to the objective of national broadcasting. While there is some ideological and political imbalance in private channels, according to my subjective assessment, the national broadcasting should be precisely the balancing force that would fill this potential resulting gap. I can say that, in fact, national broadcasting, at least among my acquaintances, is still the most reliable bearer and giver of information, and it would be a very great sin if we ruined the good reputation that has slowly begun to develop. For me, it was incomprehensible when I came up with this bill, the social media response that such an ERR bias had to be stopped. So it is not just my opinion as an individual, but I think it is the position of our people, at least part of the position certainly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U77	Thank you, Honorable waitress. There are still questions for you, though. Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U78	Thank you, good manager. And thank you also for paying attention to the members of the Riigikogu so that we adhere to the Home and Working Procedures Act! You've been very respectful and you haven't turned off their microphone. Thank you. But I have a question for the waitress. A strange situation has now arisen in the hall. Very many of your own party associates feel that this bill will not work like this and have criticised it here. Perhaps it would make more sense to reconsider whether this draft could be withdrawn at all, because its point seems to be aimed at regulating one of the programmes, namely 'Ringview'. Where do we end up when the Riigikogu starts regulating all television shows one by one? Perhaps there is still a need to think about this bill and take it back now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U79	Thank you for this proposal. But as I understand it, as Aadu Black, the head of the Committee on Culture, said when I reported this draft in the Committee on Culture, that yes, let him go to this shelf, there are plenty of amendments to the ERR law. In principle, in this process, I see the situation that there is, in fact, a force trying to prevent this draft from developing further in order to maintain the situation that has arisen. I am absolutely convinced of that. We actually have two options, the good Imre Sooäär: either I take it back and this thing stops, as it was, it goes into that shelf and it ends, or the other one is that no human being is infinitely wise or God in heaven, there is no doubt that it will be possible to table amendments to this bill, which in your vision could be better done, what should be changed and what should be left out. I do not think it is the right thing to put an end to this process now, because the public needs a public television channel that is not biased and where the principle of impartiality works. That's the main thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U80	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U81	I only have to say one commentary on one argument. It was as if I was referring to the fact that [this bill] is going into a shelf that is almost equivalent to a trash can anyway. But the point of the reply that I made in my committee was quite different: even if the draft law is not processed to the end, if that happens, we have always [later] looked at earlier drafts. The point is that the issue of national broadcasting will certainly be discussed widely, and I very much hope that this positive piece, which is in Kalle Grünthal's draft, will come with us even if we do not finish reading today.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U82	I guess it wasn't a question, it was a line.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U83	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. I now ask Heidy Purga, vice-chairman of the Committee on Culture, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U84	Thank you very much, Honourable Vice-Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I will mediate the debate on the content of this draft here in the Committee on Culture. The bill is number 283. The Committee on Culture discussed this draft via the video bridge on Tuesday, 19 January 2021. The committee was chaired by President Aadu Must and members of the Committee on Culture Signe Kivi, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Eduard Odines, Heidy Purga, Jaak Valge, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi, Marko Šorin and Riigikogu member Kalle Grünthal participated in the meeting. Commission officials Angelika Berg and Urvo Klopets were, of course, also present. There was no Helle-Moonika Helme. In addition to those mentioned, the Minister of Culture Tõnis Lukas, Chancellor of the Ministry of Culture Tarvi Sits and Legal Adviser Karin Ligi were invited as guests. The agenda ran this way so that the author of the draft, Kalle Grünthal, a member of the Riigikogu, first introduced his draft. I am not going to discuss the substance of the draft, as a good colleague has been extremely thorough in giving an overview and answering your questions. But I will present the debate that took place in the Committee on Culture after the introduction of Mr Grünthal's draft. The Minister of Culture, Tõnis Lukas, gave an overview of the Government of the Republic's decision not to support the draft and outlined the reasons for not supporting the draft, some of which I read here. First of all, the Government of the Republic cannot accept the proposal to reduce the mandatory minimum number of television and radio programmes, as during the current health crisis it is very important that adequate information reaches as many Estonian people as possible in an operational manner. It should also be taken into account that only national broadcasting programmes are available free of charge. Secondly, Lukas added that a number of issues that need to be resolved according to the draft, such as the protection of minors, the guarantee of morality and legality and related to the editor, are already regulated in the Media Services Act and are also applicable to national broadcasting, and duplication of these in the Estonian National Broadcasting Act is not necessary. Thirdly, as regards the regulation concerning the restriction of the use of television broadcasting exclusive rights, it should be taken into account that according to § 3 of the Estonian National Broadcasting Act, national broadcasting is independent in the production and transmission of its programmes, programmes and other media services. The regulation on restrictions on the exercise of exclusive rights is the result of the Audiovisual Media Services Directive and the exclusive right is deemed to be a legal benefit which allows only one media service provider to broadcast the event directly from the event. The draft amendments proposed were also discussed and that they contain contradictions. For example, the draft explanatory memorandum shows that on the one hand, the desire to ensure effective internal control of compliance with the requirements of the Estonian National Broadcasting Act, including the requirement of political balance of programmes, is unreasonably proposed, while on the other hand it is proposed to abolish the position of ethical advisor from national broadcasting. The purpose of the explanatory memorandum is to bring the management of national broadcasting into line with the Commercial Code, since national broadcasting is a legal person governed by public law and is managed in accordance with Chapter 2 of the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act. Kalle Grünthal answered the Minister's questions and, simply in terms of content, I can mark that Kalle Grünthal has been even more thorough in his presentation and answering questions here today. So, ladies and gentlemen, you have an overview of his views. But other members of the Committee on Culture also asked. For example, Eduard Odines, who was interested in logic, asked why the provisions of the Commercial Code should be extended to a public institution. Odines also supported the existence of the position of Ethical Advisor of Estonian National Broadcasting and marked the need to create additional internal control, on which he said it was redundant and burdened the existing governance structure. Public broadcasting has, [in his words], excelled in very strong self-regulation, independence and creative freedom and responsibility. Odines also asked how hiring additional editors ensures a balance and prevents commissioning. In addition, Kalle Grünthal replied that there may already be a person in the existing editor who is capable of fulfilling the duties of a leading editor, in which case there is no need to hire new people. Jaak White, a member of the Committee on Culture, also spoke, saying that there was a problem. White referred to information that in December 2020 the negative content of the referendum on marriage in Estonian National Broadcasting was 48, neutral 10 and yes messages 7. White asked whether the initiator would continue to address the issue if the Commission did not support the draft. Kalle Grünthal replied that he could not answer this question until the final result had been reached. That was the end of our debate. Aadu Black, as chairman of the committee, proposed to appoint Heidy Purga as Commission representative and to refer the draft to first reading by 26 January. In the interests of the protocol, I must point out that Signe Kivi, who was present at the meeting of the Commission, expressed the opinion that the draft was weak and proposed not to support further processing of the draft. Aadu Black put Signe Kivi to the vote to reject the draft at first reading, on the basis of a proposal. Aadu Black, Eduard Odines, Heidy Purga, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi, Marko Šorin, Signe Kivi, Viktoria Ladõnskaja-Kubits voted in favour against Jaak Valge. It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 26 January 2021 (consensually). Secondly, it was decided to propose that the draft be rejected. By Aadu Black, Eduard Odines, Heidy Purga, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi, Marko Šorin, Signe Kivi and Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Jaak White was opposed, with no abstentions. And third, it was decided to appoint Heidy Purga as waitress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U85	Thank you, dear waitress. There are no questions for you. Do you want to open negotiations? As this is the first reading, only the representatives of the political groups can participate in the negotiations. There is no wish to participate in the negotiations. We have a proposal from the lead committee to reject the draft 283 at first reading. Gather around! Ladies and gentlemen, Call time's up. I shall put to the vote the draft proposal of the commission of lading 283 to be rejected at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-26_U86	There are 62 members of the Riigikogu in favour of rejecting the bill, against 19. The bill is out of procedure, rejected. The sitting is adjourned.
