ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U1	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! Good members of the Government of the Republic! Happy Question Time Watchers! Good afternoon. Let's start the 20th October briefing. Let's go through the presence check first. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U2	24 members of the Riigikogu registered, 77 are missing. The following members of the government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, Minister of Justice Maris Lauri and Foreign Minister Eva-Maria Liimets. Good fellows! Since we have nine questions, I would like to ask you a question to be specific about each question and one supplementary question. As we all know, there are two minutes to ask and three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U3	Let's get started. Question one. It is presented by Priit Sibul, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, a member of the Government of the Republic, and the subject is vaccination. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U4	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good lord! We in the Isamaa Group also discussed this difficult situation, and the suggestion is that you should come to Parliament as soon as possible with a political statement. Because we do not think that the opportunities that Parliament and the political parties have for this discussion are sufficient. It would be good if the government could hold a broader political debate on its limitations and matters in society. I think that would make sense in any case. We also sent you this proposal in writing so that you could make a political statement before Parliament as soon as possible. I really hope you'll take it. But with regard to vaccination and restrictions, I have a question. How did the government come to such an understanding, as your good party partner and my good colleague as an oracle, wrote that we still do not consider the test reasonable enough and that we are going to distinguish people according to whether they have a certificate of vaccination or not? So far, the reason and reason for the test were reasonable enough, but now the government has come to the conclusion that we will no longer accept the test and the negative test result.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U5	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U6	Thank you. The spread of infectious disease is really high in Estonia and therefore yesterday we discussed what to do with it. What do we see? We can see that there is an increasing burden in hospitals and, unfortunately, it is the people who are in a difficult situation in hospitals who have not been vaccinated. 94%, even more than 94% of people in intensive care have not been vaccinated. It was therefore also proposed by the Scientific Advisory Board that the movement of unvaccinated people should be further restricted, the contact with others, because they are the ones who can have it very seriously if they receive the disease. More than 770000 people have been vaccinated in Estonia; most people do not have this disease seriously or completely sick, those who have been vaccinated, the more so. Therefore, it is not right to restrict all people when our problem is, in fact, that in hospitals, COVID's patients take away part of what should go into scheduled treatment. The proposal was just for [unvaccinated] people for this limited period of time, when we have a high spread of the virus, to ask to be at home, to do their homework, not to have a chance to move around. Because the test, if a person is negative, will not protect him from getting that disease. If he or she is unvaccinated and someone is carrying this disease and he or she is in contact with people like this, he or she may still get sick, even if he or she has a negative test. This means that he is not a danger to others, but others can still be a danger to him. So, in view of the objective that hospitals should and should not, to a large extent, limit scheduled treatment, such a decision was made.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U7	Now, the question to be specified. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U8	Thank you. Well, it's still, I wouldn't want to use this term as a covert, so-called, compulsive vaccination. I have not really understood this, but we also know exactly what the Scientific Advisory Board is proposing. I have read the views of Andero Uusberg, a member of a scientific council, who says that he does not consider it reasonable to select and punish people, but rather to motivate them so-called positive to be vaccinated. Now, however, the government has come to a different position. When the University of Tartu Hospital raised its level of risk to red on 4 October, this meant that patients arriving in hospital had to undergo a corona test, regardless of whether they had evidence or not. In any case, testing makes sense. One thing is what you are referring to, and which I absolutely agree with, is that of course these people may not be dangerous to others, but the virus may infect them if they are unvaccinated. I'm not gonna argue with that in any way. But the problem is also the opposite: people who are either sick or vaccinated are also going through events without being tested, and they are spreading the virus in the same way. The truth is, as you suggest, that they suffer more easily. They may be carrying a little less, but in reality they carry the virus the same way. So in this sense, I ask you very much to think that testing is important either way, just as it is done at the University of Tartu Hospital. I mean, we are as poor as we are at the level of vaccination, and I also look at the Scandinavian countries that you have set an example on several occasions. It has been decided that young men with Moderna will not be vaccinated; scientists in Estonia reached a different position. I see that, having met the Latvian President, who was coronapositive, the Finnish President decided to remain isolated and take a test, but you went around, you were in a government meeting, etc., because we have different rules. But you always make Scandinavia a role model.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U9	Thank you. And now Kaja Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U10	Thank you. A lot of subjects. I keep trying to answer. First of all, we don't punish people. The question is that we do not want to impose any restrictions at all. We'd like society to be free, everyone can walk anywhere. But unfortunately, we have too many COVID-19 patients in hospitals, and because they are there and there is a need for labour, hospitals need to limit scheduled treatment. Therefore, when unvaccinated people become seriously ill, it is precisely these people that need to be protected. Andero Uusberg also attended our study session in August. We worked hard on how to reach out to people who still hesitate. Really, we have 131⁄2% anti-vaccinating. They don't care what you do or don't do, they don't vaccinate. But there are people who hesitate and have fears. That is why in August we worked out comprehensive measures to convince these people to deal with their fears. Medical students talk to them, people with medical education perform motivational interviews to deal with it. Oh, you say hospitals are being tested, and they're still taking the test. Of course, hospitals have to accept anyone who gets in the hospital. Tests are carried out, among other things, so that there are no lesions inside the hospital, i.e. that the infection does not spread. For example, if there's a person who goes into appendic surgery, but the test shows that he's positive, then he needs to be isolated from other patients in the same way so he doesn't spread the virus. I have not said that it does not say whether a person is positive or negative. Yeah, he's saying it. But does it protect you? No, it's not. Now for Moderna. We don't inject young people with Moderna. We'll do Pfizer, at least to my knowledge, if I'm not mistaken. At least that's how I know. As far as isolation is concerned, I did not come into contact with the Latvian President there for as long as it is necessary for isolation, so to speak. These rules are also there when you're in the big room like there was, and you're far away from each other. It is not that all the people who attended this conference in Sweden are therefore now in isolation, because there was also the Latvian President who gave a positive chorona test.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U11	Now, one more question. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U12	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I think that the idea of Mr Priit Sibula and the written appeal of the Isamaa Group to make such a political statement or debate in the Riigikogu is really reasonable, simply because the questions will then also get the answer that people are watching, they will understand better. My question. When you considered not allowing events on the basis of the tests, for example, did the first person who received the injection, who had begun vaccination and could have access to the test, have a conversation and had a discussion? In fact, the big problem is that the planned surgery is already out. In particular, I have been approached by several people from Viljandi County, which had a harvest planned in October, but they have been informed that it will be pushed to spring. True, they do not have to die, but it is vitally damaging to their lives and forcing others to care for them. Did you plan, or did you also discuss, that if a single injection and a test were carried out, he would still be part of all this? It'd be like, I don't know, motivation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U13	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U14	Thank you. Yes, we discussed it, and we were even prepared to support it, but neither the Health Board, nor the Scientific Advisory Board, nor the hospital representatives supported this solution in order to receive one injection and a test. That is why we did not make this decision. I just wanted to say one more thing. Yes, it is regrettable that it must limit scheduled operations. Indeed, a person with hip pains and planned hip joint surgery must suffer because people who can actually prevent their disease, COVID, are not vaccinated. Therefore, I would really ask people to think that everyone else will suffer. You have the chance to avoid the hospital burden by protecting yourself. There is one more thing I wanted to say in addition to what I said earlier on the question of Priit Onion. In May, Eurobarometer surveyed the attitude to vaccines across Europe. According to this survey, it could have been assumed that vaccination in Estonia would remain around 57%. The question was, if you can, can you vaccinate, or have you already been vaccinated? If you look at this whole Eurobarometer survey, in fact, Estonia has stopped at exactly this place, as was expected from the survey in May. Perhaps it is not possible to completely change the convictions of people in six months. Let's look at this table. According to this, there have been fewer vaccinations in Germany than there were people in May who said that they would vaccinate, but Estonia has produced the result that could be foreseen at the time. Portugal has vaccinated more than expected. Others have more or less hit this supply in the same way. Perhaps because we do not have compulsory vaccination, it is not possible to actually increase vaccination by other means if people's convictions are different. We use every opportunity to take these fears down, but in six months it will be difficult to change these beliefs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U15	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U16	Let us move on to the second question. It is presented by Helle-Moonika Helme, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, a member of the Government of the Republic, and the subject is COVID restrictions. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! We did not get much answers to the questions of our good colleagues, Priit Sibula and Helmen Hunter. The answers were very confusing and contradictory, which is why I am still asking these questions. Yesterday, the government imposed restrictions from next Monday and, as always, they are whacky, unthinkable and partly completely unsubstantiated. The restrictions are not rational, they are not appropriate to the rule of law, because they are still aimed at a forced vaccination, for which you continue to claim that it is not there. We are talking here about a completely misunderstanding about the decision that the negative test will no longer be able to enter public places. It doesn't seem to be interested in human infection safety, it's just that a person has been vaccinated. Then why isn't the test suitable for proving infection safety, but the vaccine is fine? We know that vaccinated people are infected and infecting others, or disease, and that it cannot be prevented from spreading. After all, the negative people who have just been tested are the safest people to move in public places at all. Perhaps we are talking about maintaining public health, but the government's actions do not reflect it at all. It therefore seems that the aim is only to obtain the percentage of vaccination, for which the Chancellor of Justice has said that situations in which the COVID certificate is to be shown simply to bully or force people to vaccinate are contrary to the principle of freedom of vaccination, as well as to the Constitution. Businesses and performance agencies have already said that this restriction is bullshit and deprives them of their income. Where did this absurd measure come from? Did the scientific council provide such advice that testing is no longer a competent measure to detect the infection, or do you have other objectives, not medically, but politically, to impose such a restriction?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U18	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U19	Thank you. I repeat, the problem we have at the moment is that the number of COVID patients in hospitals is increasing. There is also an increase in the number of patients who are in a difficult situation. Let's look at the people who go to the hospital. Two thirds of them have not been vaccinated, more than 94% of people in intensive care have not been vaccinated. Maybe the burden on hospitals is a lot of unvaccinated people. They are the ones who suffer from this disease. In the case of a test, yes, it is known that this person is not currently suffering from this disease, but nothing, nor does this test provide the assurance that he will not receive this disease if he comes into contact with other people. It is a problem now that these are people who are getting sick and who are suffering from this disease seriously. The Chancellor of Justice has been present in these discussions. The Chancellor of Justice has made it clear that, in a situation where we have vaccines, there is no longer any justification for restricting the people who have been vaccinated. We have over 770000 people who have been vaccinated. These same establishments do not want to go to prison, they want to continue their service, they want people to be able to go to theatre, concerts and museums. If we have a problem with getting sick and still having a hard time with unvaccinated people, then in order to keep the whole society open, we need to limit the movement of unvaccinated people and their contact with others. Of course, there is also a suggestion that everyone else wear masks; for everyone else there is also a suggestion that distance should be kept and, if possible, teleworking, precisely in order to break down these chains of infection. But if we see from the data that unvaccinated people are the ones who get more sick, the unvaccinated people are the ones who get more hospitalized, then it is clear that they must be protected. Unfortunately, we need to do this in such a way that their contacts need to be restricted.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U20	Now, the question to be specified. Please, Helle-Moonika Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U21	Thank you. I have already said in the introduction to my question that you are contradicting yourself. You say we need to limit the movement of unvaccinated people and contact with others. Maybe it's the conclusion that we're protecting unvaccinated people from vaccinees. Well, that's great! You also repeatedly said that the aim of the restrictions was primarily to reduce the burden on hospitals. As of now, hospitals are suffering from nearly 1000 new COVID and, at the moment, there are just over 400 patients in hospitals across Estonia. Unfortunately, your government's focus is only on extra beds. For two years, there has been time to improve the capacity of hospitals. Our party's position was in the previous government, and it is also now that attention should have been paid primarily to preparing medical staff for the crisis. By the way, the higher education institutions of both Tallinn and Tartu health care were ready for the additional training of hospital staff and nurses this summer. But what didn't happen was the government's decisions. So everyone has not done anything to get hospitals ready for a new crisis, and now people, healthy people, are being bullied, their constitutional rights are being violated, and society is being forced to vaccinate. You've specifically said that if things get out of hand in hospitals... This is not just a subject of vaccination, but precisely that nothing has been done to empower hospitals. I'm asking specifically. If hospitals are in trouble for the main reasons I have already talked about and ask for a specific answer, then you have said that in this case the Prime Minister will remove Tanel Kiige from office. Are you gonna do it or not, can't you?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U22	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U23	Thank you. We're not protecting unvaccinated people from vaccinated people, we're protecting unvaccinated people... Do you want to listen or do you want to argue with me? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] If you're talking while I'm answering you, it's a little complicated. I can also, of course, look at Priit onion and tell him, then at least... All right, here's what we're gonna do. In short, we protect unvaccinated people from the disease, not from other people who are vaccinated, because unvaccinated people, when they are in contact with other people, can suffer very seriously if they become ill. You say hospitals can serve a thousand COVID pains. How do you know that? Yesterday we had a meeting with the hospital executives. Both the head of the Northern Medical Center and the South Medical Center said they didn't have the capacity that was in the spring. The question is not whether they can open the COVID beds, because yes, they can. The question is that health professionals are tired. They say they don't want to work in COVID anymore, it's hard work. They want to do a substantial job, a different job, and whatever hospitals offer, they are no longer willing to work there. Maybe these beds alone aren't helping these people, they need staff. Yes, yesterday, we decided to increase the pay paid to hospitals for beds by 75%, so that hospitals would still do the job, so that hospitals would motivate these nurses. But I don't know where you're from, that 1,000 hurts is what Estonian hospitals are suffering from. In any case, neither hospitals nor... In any case, hospitals do not confirm that. On the contrary, they are very concerned about what problems exist in hospitals. People are no longer willing to work there. Of course, you put all kinds of words in my mouth that I haven't said. We are all dealing with this crisis. I would like to say that it is extremely cynical for you that you actually call for insubordination, you call on people not to vaccinate. In fact, as Helmen Hunter pointed out, we have people who are actually helpless because COVID patients are full of hospitals. They're out of surgery, they're in pain, and so on. Healthcare professionals groan under COVID patients. And you're saying that the problem isn't that you're all in contact with each other, don't obey the restrictions, don't vaccinate! I find it extremely cynical to try to take such a political point from here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U24	A procedural question. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U25	Yes, I would simply procedurally make such a remark to the Prime Minister that he should not put words in my mouth. I specifically asked him why the government had not done anything to empower hospitals with additional staff and to deal with the issue. But instead, I'm gonna be charged with why we haven't done anything. There's nothing we can do, you have to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U26	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we all know the briefing form. We do not actually have this form of negotiation here. There are questions, there are answers, just as good as these questions are by members of the Riigikogu and answers by members of the government. Let's keep going. Additional question, Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! I'll adjust it first. To a good colleague, Priit Sibula, you replied that young people and children in Estonia are not vaccinated with Moderna, but on 13 October an article was published in the media entitled "Expert committee decided: in Estonia, the vaccination of young people with Moderna will not be stopped." But I'm going to move on to my question. Yesterday you gave an interview. The quote is this: "The biggest concern now is getting older people vaccinated, since it is the elderly who get the most hospitalized and die from the disease. " You then justified the restrictions, these new restrictions, saying that the restriction includes sports, training, youth work, recreational activities, recreational education, further training and further training, as well as sports and exercise activities, public saunas, spas, swimming pools, water centers and swimming pools, public meetings and events, conferences, theatres, concerts, cinemas, museums, exhibition facilities, entertainment services, catering companies. I very much doubt that the biggest problem is that the elderly are the ones who are using all the services you have now restricted. Maybe the focus of your restrictions is completely screwed up on the wrong contingent. Please explain your logic. You say that older people are the biggest problem, but restrictions are imposed on young and middle-aged active people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U28	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U29	Children and recreational education go by completely separate rules, which we decided to harmonise yesterday, both in schools and in hobby groups, the activities of children and young people. There are rules for this: If a child is sick, of course he stays at home. If the child is in close contact, then as long as the PCR test is performed and it is verified that the child is negative, he or she is not in school. It's the same in hobby education. This is to stop these infectious disease chains in schools as well. Again, the point of these measures is still to reduce contacts with people who are seriously ill. As I said, those people who are unvaccinated get in hospital several times more often, in addition to intensive care. Therefore, in places where you can go at all, it would be wise to limit the movement of unvaccinated people so that they do not come into contact with others. Of course, it is not possible to restrict people's movements in general and to lock them home. Nobody's gonna do that. But in those places where COVID's evidence is being checked, these people are being asked not to walk, as long as the spread of the virus is high, because it can be very dangerous for them. I am listening to you, and I do not understand whether your proposal is to limit everything to everyone again, to shut it all down again. Then, I say, the 770000 people who have behaved responsibly, who have vaccinated themselves, have done everything they can to prevent the virus from spreading. I do not rule out that if this goes on, there may be more steps to be taken here, but I very, very much hope that we will not get there and that we will still get hospitals in a situation where the proportion of COVID patients in hospitals will not grow and the planned treatment will not have to be limited.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U30	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U31	Let's move on to question three. Riina Sikkut, a member of the Riigikogu, answers this, Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, and the subject of the question is the budget. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U32	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! Today we are going to have a budget for the first reading, and I am already warming up on budgetary issues. For me, it has been very sympathetic when the European Commission specifically says, for example, on this 'Objective 55' package and on the green turn at all, that the transition must be fair. If we are unable to make a fair transition, there is no point in starting, then there is no way of going over. Strangely, in the first waves of the green turn, we have received a high price of electricity, which is unfairly smeared on the back of the green turn, but the challenge for the government is to allow this fair turn and to explain it to the people nonetheless. Let's look at this year's budget and the explanatory statement. The budget's income support in 2022 will decrease by 14%, the amount planned for income support will decrease by nearly 2.9 million. It is explained that as unemployment is projected to decrease and people's incomes will increase, it can be assumed that income support costs will not increase in 2022. At the same time, both Commissioner for Energy Kadri Simson and you and the Minister for Finance have indicated to people that those who are in trouble with their heating or electricity bill should contact the municipality for income support. Can you tell us what this possible additional cost is, why it is not currently in the budget and whether the government is planning to come to a budget change to reflect the need for more income support next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U33	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U34	Thank you. The economy is doing well, which means that we now have labour shortages rather than unemployment, and that is why people are doing better. The income support rate is determined by the Riigikogu and, if this rate has not been changed, the costs that were incurred at the moment when the state budget was drawn up were, taking into account the forecast or forecast of unemployment. All this electricity price and the resulting problem arose during the preparation of the state budget, which is why, for example, we were forced to discuss mitigation measures only after we had already submitted the state budget to the Riigikogu. You will also be able to discuss this. We decided to help precisely those families who are the hardest, who do not have fixed-price electricity contracts and who are therefore affected by this price volatility. However, as far as income support is concerned, if the Riigikogu decides to increase income support, if there is such a need, but there is no money in the state budget, then amendments must be made. If there really should be an increased need and this issue cannot be resolved within the framework of the state budget, then an additional budget is really necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U35	Now, the question to be specified. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U36	Thank you for that explanation. In fact, neither the forecast of unemployment nor the forecast of income nor the level of income support have changed. People's costs have changed, this component. There is no need to change or do anything else in this state budget. Just more applicants are coming, because people's livelihoods have really been hit by a terrible increase in energy bills. The question is, if there is a cold winter, this need will probably grow exponentially. If this is a measure recommended by the government to alleviate the burden of rising energy prices, this could also be reflected in the budget. But no, I am not saying that this is actually the right way to resolve this concern, there are more sensible ways to reduce people's bills, so that there is less administrative burden than there are fewer social effects, a person should not admit to needing help and go to the municipality with a statement. But in addition, is the government planning to come to a budget change with regard to the need to reduce energy prices? The second question is about the restrictions imposed yesterday. So far, measures to mitigate the damage caused by restrictions have still been subject to restrictions. In the case of the third wave, is it similarly planned to discuss it and include this package in the budget, to provide the means to compensate the parties for the losses caused by the third wave or the waves occurring during the winter?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U37	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U38	Thank you. Yes, an increase in costs is indeed a problem. What have we done? Firstly, we have decided to cancel the planned increases in excise duty, which concern the various energy carriers. Secondly, we decided to compensate for network charges or reduce network charges for all consumers. These are the levers that are in the hands of the state to share this burden and to help those who find it difficult to do so. As far as the control measures currently in force are concerned, our aim has been to keep society open, so that companies can work, theatres, all performing establishments, museums, everyone can be open, restaurants and cafes, life is limited as much as possible, and spas that were closed last year or during the last wave could still be open. Now, these additional measures. In fact, most people have been vaccinated, moving around. When we asked, what is the proportion of people who are taking the test, for example, the spalite has said that 10 to 15%. So most people have been vaccinated and this cost can't really be that high. Compared to everything going down and nobody getting anywhere, in this case, I understand that there will be great damage, because you cannot carry out your economic activity. But we're trying to get everyone to be open. As of now, about 10% of people have been tested. Perhaps some of them find that they want to be more involved in society, defend themselves and protect others, and do this vaccine. Maybe it's a much smaller proportion. The aim, as I have already emphasised, is to keep everything as open as possible. So I hope we don't have to come to compensation at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U39	Now, one more question. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U40	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good Prime Minister! I do not want to ask about the 2022 budget, I want to ask about the 2021 budget. As we know, there is little room for manoeuvre in budgeting in the Riigikogu, but one of the joys that Riigikogu ambassadors have is regional subsidies, i.e. so-called roofing money. I am not even going to discuss the case of any individual roofing money, but the fact is that a number of the state budget allocations assigned to the Riigikogu have not yet been paid up to the present day, without paying out to the intended recipients, which means that the government has not complied with the law adopted by the Riigikogu. How are you going to solve this? Do you still intend to make payments that have not been made in the last months of the year, or do you intend not to comply with the budget law adopted by the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U41	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U42	Thank you. The laws adopted by the Riigikogu are for the government to comply with. There are months to go from 2021. So if these payments have not been made, they will definitely be made during this period.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U43	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U44	Let's move on to question four. It is presented by Riigikogu member Raivo Tamm, which is answered by Foreign Minister Eva-Maria Liimets, and the subject of the question is foreign policy. Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U45	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, In Question Time today, we have already heard many times about where unvaccinated people will soon not be able to access nationally under the government regulation. But it seems that only a test is enough to travel to Estonia. Is that the case, and isn't this a little discord?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U46	Eva-Maria Liimets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U47	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for this very important question. Indeed, we remember from the beginning of the pandemic that our common principles and values of the European Union relating to the free movement of people and goods were called into question because the countries closed their borders to prevent the virus. Of course, public health is extremely important for every country. However, as of 1 July, we have a common agreement in the European Union that there will be no restrictions on travel with a medical certificate. At present, these restrictions have not been imposed by the Member States of the European Union. This agreement leaves it possible for each Member State to decide that if the situation really becomes exceptional, it will be possible for the State to launch the braking mechanism. Perhaps this possibility exists in a Member State, but at present we have not considered it necessary to limit it more than we have agreed in the European Union. The reason for this is that we ourselves very actively supported this principle, so that the borders of the Member States are open and that we find alternative means of keeping our societies functioning even during the virus.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U48	Now, the question to be specified. Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U49	Thank you! Let's continue with the question of keeping boundaries open. How are things going in the context of the Belarusian crisis with regard to the holding of borders? I would like the latest news in this area about the situation with the Belarusian crisis and how this barbed wire scandal has developed between Estonia and Lithuania. And what about building our eastern border, or the control line?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U50	Eva-Maria Liimets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U51	Thank you. There was a complex collection of very important questions. I will start with the most acute that we discussed together again on Monday with the Foreign Ministers of the European Union. This concerns how to ensure the security of the European Union's external borders so that the flow of immigrants from Belarus towards Latvia, Lithuania and Poland can be stopped. It is indeed very regrettable that Belarus's hybrid attacks towards the European Union, the politically biased attacks, are taking place. We very much hope that this border will be strengthened. A number of aid mechanisms have been put in place here, one of which is, of course, Frontex, which guarantees the security of the external borders. Estonia quickly gave bilateral assistance to Lithuania; we sent our police unit there. We also really gave Lithuania the opportunity to purchase barbed wire in the framework of our own procurement, which at the time corresponded to the market price. In this context, we have very good relations with Lithuania that they are grateful that Estonia took such a rapid step in supporting them. Of course, together with the European Union, we will continue to work in the direction of ensuring that there is no influx of third countries into Belarus, so that there are no more people who are trying to come across the border towards Europe, namely Lithuania, Latvia and Poland. So this is the problem we are dealing with acutely. As far as the development of our eastern border is concerned, the development of the Eastern border, which was taken up by the previous government, is well underway and will continue as planned. I'm sure the Minister of the Interior could shed some light on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U52	Now for an additional question. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U53	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good minister! I also have a question for you about foreign policy, about value policy. The former President of Estonia, Toomas Hendrik Ilves, took the floor about a year ago about how the medieval Taliban was in power in Estonia, trying to make a referendum, thereby giving an assessment of the Estonian government at the time. But now the Taliban is in power in Afghanistan. He pulls people into cranes, chops off the heads and hands of pregnant women, and runs a major humanitarian crisis, the worst we know and have seen in modern times. These massive tortures, executions, and stigmatizations or persecutions of social groups on this scale are unprecedented in our age. You have spoken on several occasions in defence of the Taliban and found that we have some common elements with them. In addition, under your leadership, Estonian taxpayers' money has been given to the Taliban regime. I'm totally confused. Is this a positive assessment of the Taliban's activities, or is it a violation of principle, or is it inertia, that for 20 years we drowned money there and talked about Afghanistan as our friend, and now we do not understand that there has been a total paradigm change? Or what is it now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U54	Eva-Maria Liimets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U55	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, for these questions. First of all, I have to adjust that I have not brought forward the positive elements of either [the word] or the Taliban in order to protect the Taliban. I understand you referred to my Outside Eye interview. I'd definitely recommend listening to this Out-Eye interview, not referencing Delfi headlines. I would also point out that this interview was given before the Taliban took power, perhaps at the time the situation was different from the moment the Taliban took power a few days later. Now that we are in a situation where the Taliban has taken power and formed a government that does not meet the expectations of the international community, I very much agree with your emphasis on the situation in Afghanistan. This is indeed very worrying, it is very regrettable. On behalf of the Estonian Government, we have not recognised the Taliban government either, because we do not consider the legitimacy of the way in which the Taliban gained power over this government in its own country. However, as regards the provision of humanitarian aid to the Afghan people, I would point out that this aid went not to the Taliban, but to the Afghan people. This assistance was provided through humanitarian organisations, such as the Red Cross, which in the so-called field, or Afghanistan, communicate directly with people and ensure that food aid and medical support go to those people who are really in a very difficult situation in Afghanistan. We're talking about 18 million people in the order of magnitude.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U56	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U57	Let's move on to question five. Martin Helme, a member of the Riigikogu, answers this question, Minister of Justice Maris Lauri, and the subject is the rule of law. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U58	Thank you, good speaker! Minister, thank you very much. A few weeks ago, news came that a brutal paedophile and murderer Vassili Ochkalenko, who were sentenced to death during the Republic of Estonia in 1993, had been released as a freeway prisoner in Estonia, but their death sentence was converted into life imprisonment in 1997. In addition to being a pedophile, harassing and harassing children, Ochkalenko is also a murderer, and he brutally killed five - year - old Diana after he raped her. Life imprisonment, it seems, actually it is 28 years in the Republic of Estonia today, because the man goes around peacefully. I have several questions. First of all, even if we consider today's rules in Estonia, we should only be able to become a so-called freeway prisoner or an opening prison under certain conditions. For example, a person should show that he is rehabilitated and repented. He hasn't shown me that. He should go through treatment and social programs, they he hasn't passed. He should hold a residence permit in Estonia, which he does not have. According to the Supreme Court's decision, he should have the prospect of ever getting out of prison, which a prisoner does not have for life. There should be an assessment that the risk of his or her relapse is not high, but he or she has not been given such an assessment. How is it possible that such a hideous person is essentially free in Estonia? In addition, I would point out that he does not meet the conditions of the opening prison, i.e. he does not register in the places where he goes. How is such a thing possible in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U59	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U60	Thank you for your question. I undoubtedly understand people and their perturbation, especially in Haapsalu. A heavy criminal, a man who committed very serious crimes, is in the open prison and is on the move. Now for an explanation of this. In Estonia, lifelong prisoners can be released from prison after 25 years of imprisonment. That's the law. This decision is undoubtedly made by the court. We also know that when a long-term prisoner leaves prison, his ties with the rest of society have been broken and his ability to cope in society is, say, modest. Therefore, socialisation programmes and activities exist. One part of them is that a person is in an open prison, or he can go out under controlled conditions, especially at work, and under certain conditions in other places, such as relatives. There are also very specific conditions in which he can go there. This decision is made when a person is placed in an open prison and where he or she will be taken in prisons. That's not the decision of the court. There really is an assessment of a wide range of conditions. I'm sure they've been done in this case too. This prisoner certainly has a residence permit, so what you read out, which conditions are not fulfilled, was not all correct. Indeed, if a person who is in an open prison fails to fulfil his or her duties or conditions, he or she will be returned from the opening prison to normal prison conditions. I assure you that all these situations are constantly being monitored and evaluated.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U61	Now, the question to be specified. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U62	Thank you. First of all, it's not a secret, it's a well-known fact that sex offenders are the most relapsed criminals ever, and especially in the case of paedophiles. In that sense, we don't have the point here, with our head on our shoulder, to grieve. It is the task of the government and the task of the Riigikogu to ensure the security of Estonian people and the rule of law. So that's the most important thing to understand. You're talking about these conditions. I read out a series of conditions that have not been met. Perhaps today he has been granted a residence permit, which would also be questionable, because why has it been done? But a number of other things, including this reversibility assessment, are not met. But now we're still getting to the most important. If, for some incomprehensible reason, Estonia has increasingly liberalised laws that allow people sentenced to death to be released again after 25 years, these laws have gone into the bush and these laws must be amended. I have a question for the Minister of Justice: do you intend to come to the Riigikogu with some legislative amendment that will give the people of Estonia a sense of security and that murderers and paedophiles will not walk around peacefully?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U63	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U64	Thank you. I remind the member of the Riigikogu that there is a separation of powers and a court of justice in Estonia. The law is actually created and approved by the Riigikogu. So if you have the feeling that you want to change the law, that freedom and the right to do so will always be yours. As far as definitions are concerned, decisions taken by the Court on one or another particular case are concerned, I am not going to do so here on the basis of my position.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U65	Now, one more question. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U66	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Clearly, the actions carried out by Mr Ochkalenko are not proportional to the punishment he is currently serving. A man was sentenced to death, then replaced by a life sentence, and now he walks around free. At the same time, we are imprisoned in a prison, not in an open prison, for ordinary thieves who may have committed theft at the store. They're like the most dangerous thugs. I'm gonna ask you a question. We also know that this is not the only case of a dangerous relapse walking around peacefully as the right man. Does anyone in such cases also check the conformity of judgments with the acts committed?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U67	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U68	Thank you. Once again, I remind the honourable member of the Riigikogu that justice is administered by the court of Estonia in accordance with the laws in force adopted by the Riigikogu. I have no reason to believe that not all three levels of court in Estonia can work successfully with each other or with the whole system. I have no such doubt or hesitation. I really can't imagine who would then be the one to review the Supreme Court's decisions and assess whether the Supreme Court is making the right decisions. I'm sorry, it would no longer be a democratic country.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U69	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U70	Let's move on to question six. It is presented by Andres Metsoja, a member of the Riigikogu, answers Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, the theme is green energy. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U71	Thank you. Prime Minister! The European Green Agreement is based on the promise that the grassroots is economically profitable and socially fair and that no one will be left behind. In today's paper Tea Danilov, Head of the Monitoring Centre for Development, says that the economic impact, which is still unknown at the moment of the green turn, is obvious, we do not really know how it affects our economy and our competitiveness. The impact is on security of energy supply and will also lead to transition difficulties for vulnerable groups. In fact, he is talking about two basic pillars, i.e. the business sector, economic space, plus security of energy supply, i.e. our security of supply, and, thirdly, he is marking that we are still very much ahead of what the government has also started to do, that we have to support vulnerable people precisely in compensating for electricity costs. Yesterday, in the Committee on the Environment, we listened to the Steering Committee on Green Policy of the Government of the Republic. I have to admit, I got even more confused. We are looking for messages to be sent to the public about why this greening works, how it affects our entire living environment and what are these steps to promote greening and also energy security by introducing wind farms, new areas, alternative solutions. My question to you, therefore, is whether we are moving today towards clarity as to what the government's real programme is so that we, as Members of Parliament, can provide adequate answers to citizens.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U72	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U73	Thank you. The truth is that at the moment it is not possible to say with certainty about the future that this is the impact or that it is the other. But we know that climate change will bring about irreversible changes in the way we live, work and make money. At the beginning of November, there will be a major climate conference or a summit, where different countries around the world will be present, including the major states, to discuss exactly what still needs to be done. In my opinion, there is always an alternative cost at every expense. When we talk about the cost of a green turn, the weight point is also an alternative: if we do not keep our environment enough, this country could become completely uninhabitable. This is already considerably higher than the cost of a green turn. What's the focus of our green turn? The focus is still very much to focus on pushing companies to see the green turning opportunities. What you said about social justice and the fact that people who may not be so well off economically should not bear the burden of a green turn, I absolutely agree. The European Union's climate package also provides for a Social Fund to overcome these more serious cases. Certainly, if we are to shape Estonia's views on the green turn, we must take all of this into account. You have identified renewable energy. I would like to stress that if we had enough renewable energy production capacity, we would not have the question that electricity prices are so expensive or that we do not have security of supply. What are we gonna do about it? We know the wind at sea is practically blowing all the time. Since you came from Pärnu, you probably know better than anyone. Together with the Latvians, we are developing a sea wind park in the Gulf of Livonia, which would further bring security of supply to our two countries. At European level, we are also discussing the creation of a single network of sea wind parks in the Baltic Sea, precisely because, when the wind blows at one end of the sea, citizens of other countries will also be able to participate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U74	The question to be specified. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U75	Yes, local elections offered the opportunity to be at the green turn of the epicentre in Pärnu County, and I also undoubtedly ended up in discussions about wind farms. The people's question is very simple: why is the capacity of Toots' wind farm developed, the substation built, the connectivity capacity, the state's money has been compensated for, but so far there will be zero kilowatt-hours of electricity? Maybe we're actually paying for our failure. This project has been launched since 2009. Today we are in 2021 and the situation is that two state companies are being tried among themselves. In parallel, citizens ask that if they really want to make a wind farm in the Gulf of Livonia and talk about local benefits, why does the state spoil its strategic opportunity to actually offer local benefits, but instead comes with a matchbox of candy money? This is a direct quote from the local government leaders, which they have apparently addressed to you as well. I think we're going the wrong way. We should actually confirm by our actions that the grassroots is really necessary and we are doing things, we are not arguing within our own country, but we are trying to minimise these disputes in order to guarantee the objectives. The other side is that we do not take false or incomplete steps that ridicule the project. At the moment, Pärnumaa's view seems to me that we have done more evil than good. Are you guys gonna agree or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U76	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U77	Thank you. I'm sure you know the circumstances of Pärnu well better than I do. I can't appreciate it in that view. I would say that the green turn epicenter, as you say, is still rather in Ida-Virumaa. We have a fair transition fund in Ida-Virumaa, and it is precisely because we have taken the course to phase out oil shale energy and must help these people find the same job. There are very hardworking people with very specific skills. There should be, firstly, power generation capacities in the region and, secondly, work for these people when it comes to epicenter. While in the past all the power generation units have been in Ida-Virumaa and others have not taken part in them or have not been very much in other parts of the region, the green turn is rather such that the multiplicity of energy sources over the land and the multiplicity of these locations would be the same. This has led to people saying: do these energy capacities, but do them somewhere else, do them all again in Ida-Viru County. That doesn't make any sense. That's why we've been thinking about this local benefit instrument. You're saying it's not enough. We haven't knocked it off yet, so to speak, there can be changes. If you see bottlenecks, they should certainly be highlighted so that they can be corrected. If, however, we cannot improve enough, it is also possible to improve the Riigikogu. There's one more thing I wanted to do. You're saying we shouldn't argue. I say, on the contrary, we should argue. This is a major change, and we need to argue about the directions that we are doing, what we are not doing and how we are doing. We have different views. As they say, disputes finally reveal the truth. I believe in it. As far as Toots' wind farm is concerned specifically, indeed, as you rightly point out, this is a bearded story. I didn't even comment on the details. However, the lesson of this project is that we are in the rule of law and that state-owned companies cannot pass the rules by force either. It is being challenged, and we are seeing this result at the moment. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] But yes, since these things are in court, I have no comment on a particular decision or process.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U78	Now, one more question. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U79	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! You have just said to your esteemed colleague that, in fact, you may have said this to all of us, that if you see any bottlenecks in the transition to green energy, let us know. I'm asking. Why are people misled about the green turn, that they can benefit from the green turn and contribute to the development of renewable energy, for example by installing solar panels themselves, building solar parks, and that the state is fully encouraging and supporting it? At the same time, it is a public secret that those who really want to do all of this and invest themselves, do so from their own resources, are immediately confronted with the fact that there are very many regions across Estonia where it is no longer possible for people to develop and join renewable energy, because networks and local substations simply no longer allow this additional capacity to be installed. Perhaps as in this song: "Forgins, do you still have room? No, it's full. " Why is it not spoken of, and why are people misled?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U80	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U81	Thank you. However, I say that people can benefit from the green turn. The European recovery facility will be approved in the next few weeks and will have quite significant amounts for the green turn. How do we intend to use these amounts in Estonia? These funds will be shared by KredEx. They are directed, for example, to heat buildings. We all know that the cheapest energy is saved energy. The KredEx measure could be opened as early as the new year. When we talk about the various renewable energy capacities that people can do for themselves, either in the form of solar panels or wind generators, then indeed, in the past, people may not have thought about it so much, but now the more advanced people are thinking about how to produce and use energy for their own use. You're talking about the power grid capacity. If you know physics and how electricity grids work, then you know that it really is that if I am a producer, for example, then I must also be on the balance sheet, that is, I will say how much energy I am giving to the grid and there must also be consumers. If I give less, I'm gonna have to keep this balance sheet myself, which means I'm gonna have to buy that electricity somewhere else to still give it to the grid to make the network work. If I have many small producers who are not really on the balance sheet, it must be taken into account that there may be a situation where, for example, say, there is no sun, and all those households who have otherwise managed to consume their electricity will start asking for electricity from the electricity grid. The power grid shall have the necessary capacity to maintain this balance and voltage accordingly and to ensure that everyone's electricity needs are covered. This is certainly a problem if we have more and more households thinking about their production. What could be different solutions can be considered with the electricity distribution network and also with Elering, how to deal with these situations.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U82	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U83	Let's move on to question seven. Kert Kingo has asked this question, Prime Minister Kallas answers it and the issue is the situation in the country, as is the title of a good radio programme. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U84	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! In your reply to Mr Metsoja, you once again mentioned your favorite phrase that we live in the rule of law. A little involved is my question, too. You have repeatedly spoken in the Chamber of Riigikogu that vaccination is necessary because it can control the COVID virus. You have said that vaccination is necessary, especially at workplaces where people are employed: health care workers, the Police and Border Guard Board, the Defence Forces, theatres, etc. You insist that we do not have a compulsory vaccination. In the Question Time of 29 September, the question was whether persons who have not been vaccinated would be dismissed in the Defence Forces, on which you replied that you did not have this information and that people would change jobs. However, on Monday, 18 October, the media revealed that the Defence Forces had released 36 people, 22 of whom were active troops, because of their opposition to the vaccine. Now I'd like to know if this information has reached you. What do you call this kind of action, when people are pressured to inject with the threat of dismissal, and if they don't, then they're released? If this isn't a forced vaccination, what is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U85	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U86	Thank you. First of all, the last time I answered that question, there was an additional answer with the information that was there at the time. First, I'm adjusting the numbers. Yes, at the beginning of October, the Defence Forces had failed to provide a certificate of the order of 50 staff members, who were assessed for reasons of non-submission and were granted an extension if necessary. As of 19 October, 34 persons had received the release notification, 20 of them active troops and 14 persons on employment contracts. These are correct numbers. Just as I did last time, according to the Biological Hazards Regulation, every employer has a duty to carry out risk analysis and to carry out their work according to risk analysis, so that people do not get infected or carry on with the disease. Such risk assessments have also been carried out in the field of defence. The Defence Forces carried out a risk analysis and found that the entire Defence Forces personnel had both wartime tasks and close association with the rest of the staff, which is why vaccination is required for all positions. If there were vacant posts where vaccination was not required, the Defence Forces would take advantage of this opportunity. Here's a little bit of numbers. Let's see the militia get infected. On January 15th, as we know, we had no vaccinated people yet, there were 82 COVID-positive Defence Forces and 471 Defence Forces had to go into isolation. This means that this ratio was 1. On March 15th, while there was already a highlight, there were 269 COVID positives and 1201 people had to go into isolation. However, we have September numbers, then it was quite a different intercourse: 27 positive in the Defence Forces, 42 in total was supposed to be in isolation. This means that this ratio was 1:17. Let me remind you that at first this ratio was 1:6.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U87	The question to be specified. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U88	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! As usual, there was no answer. You're talking about some statistics, but I didn't get an answer to my question. I have the next question right now, and I hope that one day you will be able to answer a few questions. You talk here all the time as if vaccination was the only means of preventing the spread of COVID and preventing disease. But that's not true. You have also confirmed here that vaccinated people get infected, get sick and spread the COVID virus to other healthy people. You have also justified that vaccinated people are allegedly suffering from COVID more easily and often without any symptoms. As vaccinees are not subject to compulsory testing, there is therefore no indication of how many of the vaccinees are actually infected and affected. These infected move around without restrictions, gather for events, and infect healthy people, and continue to create new outbreaks. But you have decided to limit yourself to unvaccinated and often healthy people. There are now more and more cases when vaccinated people are in the hospital. Last week 32.2% of patients in hospital need had completed the entire vaccination course and 43.1% had completed the vaccination course. That's 76.3%. That's how you play numbers all the time. But my question. On the basis of all these circumstances, any thinking person should understand that vaccination is not a solution and it certainly does not stop the spread of COVID or prevent illness. What is the real purpose of the vaccination, that you violate the constitutional rights of people, pressure people to vaccinate, deprive them of jobs, incomes and freedoms, and where is your "we have a better plan" now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U89	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U90	Thank you. I didn't say vaccination would prevent disease. I didn't say that. I have said that vaccination will prevent serious illness. You're bringing the numbers to the people in the hospital. We have people at the hospital with other diseases. I didn't say anywhere that vaccination somehow makes it bulletproof that these people stay here on the face of the earth, in other words, they don't die, they're like immortal. Nobody said that. Perhaps the more people we have vaccinated, the more people will die and have been vaccinated, as we will have people who have been vaccinated against smallpox, who are, I don't know, vaccinated against tuberculosis. They're still dying, no one's gonna forget about themselves on this earth. Let's talk about the goals again. We now have 413 COVID-19 patients at the hospital, and as I have already answered, the hospitals are working under a lot of pressure. Healthcare professionals are no longer willing to work with COVID patients. This does not mean that we do not have people who can't get sick when they are vaccinated, I have not said that, but the numbers show that vaccinated people suffer from this disease more easily, there are considerably fewer of them in intensive care. 94% of people currently in intensive care due to COVID-19 are unvaccinated. But I'm asking you this, and that's probably a rhetorical question because you can't answer. But what is your proposal? Lock everyone up again? That's how I read it. "Why aren't you restricting the vaccinated people? Why aren't you restricting the vaccinated people? " Do we close everyone, close schools again, close companies again, shop again, restaurants, theatres, movies? Why would you want that? After all, all we really want is to prevent death and prevent serious illness. We want to do everything we can. I call on you not to spread these lies and to advise people to protect themselves and others precisely by preventing such serious cases from occurring.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U91	A further question. Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U92	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Latvia will be in a state of emergency from tomorrow. I am sure that Latvians will once again put their border guards on the border to limit the movement of Estonian people to Latvia. They certainly do not control and let their people freely into Estonia, as was the case in spring. What is your position, will you allow Latvians again to transport the virus to the people of South Estonia and do nothing to limit the movement of unvaccinated Latvians to us, that they will carry the virus to the people of South Estonia as in spring? This would once again show your disregard for the people of South Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U93	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U94	Thank you. The current state of the spread of infectious disease in Estonia is at a high level of danger. I'm asking if you're caring enough about all people that you're actually calling for a stay away from each other and a vaccinate. In the same way, you say that the threat comes from Latvia. After all, the threat does not come from Latvia; this virus is here in Estonia, it is spreading here in Estonia, just as it is spreading in Latvia and Lithuania. This is because our level of vaccination is lower than, for example, in Finland, Sweden or Denmark. Why is that? It depends on people's attitude. People who have wanted these vaccines and have received them at an early stage have taken these steps, but others have not. The part that hasn't done it, of course, isn't much of a collection. But when we cross the border, we've been asking for a COVID passport since 1 July. In fact, we already ask the people who are coming here to prove that they are subject to the same rules as everyone else who is doing this. However, as I say, these border controls, too, have unfortunately not prevented the spread of this virus. Right now we have to deal with the spread of the virus within our own country.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U95	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U96	Let's move on to question eight. The question is asked by Mart Helme, a member of the Riigikogu, and Prime Minister Kaja Kallas answers this question and the subject is civil control. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U97	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Kaja Kallas! We've developed a time series, and this time series for the defence forces is next. On 9 May, our Defence Forces were advised to dress in civilian clothes in order not to irritate the Russian-speaking residents of the Republic of Estonia celebrating 9 May. Then news came that chaplain service would be abolished and the military orchestra would be shut down. This mistake has been partly corrected, but not completely corrected. Then the news came that the honorary guard of the president's office was going to perform the service in mottled, not parade uniforms. Now we have a dance in the Defence Forces in connection with the forced vaccination, which has very clearly caused resentment, discontent, voluntary departure and forced departure of professional soldiers. I would also like to remind you here that the current leader of the Defence Forces, General Herem, had served in the operational department as Chief of the General Staff of the Defence Forces during the time of the traitor Deniss Metsavas. This same Herem has confirmed General Palmi as Chief of the General Staff of the Defence Forces and Deputy Commander of the Defence Forces, who has received a negative accreditation and has even, according to my records, been sitting in a sobering house. I ask you, have you known all these circumstances, all these operations with orchestras, uniforms, etc. in advance? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Have you spoken to Mr Herem on these issues and drew his attention to the fact that his actions are systematic undermining the morale and the will of defence of the Defence Forces?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U98	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U99	Thank you. First of all, of the arguments you put forward. This recommendation to dress up in civilian clothes was made, if I remember correctly now, after the riots of April, precisely in order not to create further tension. So it was already in 2008. This is what we have said earlier in this Chamber of the Riigikogu that it has not come in any way right now. Such a recommendation has remained in force and was valid even if, for example, you were in the government, and you did not fight against it at all. As for the Orchestra of the Defence Forces, the orchestra will continue under the name of the military orchestra, he will continue at the War Museum, and as far as I know, contracts have already been concluded with 34 orchestras. This orchestra, as we have seen, was already working nicely when the president took office. So it's solved, too. You're asking if I've spoken to the Commander of the Defence Forces about these matters. We have talked to the Commander of the Defence Forces a great deal about the topics of the Estonian Defence Forces, about defence capabilities, also about various aspects that affect defence capabilities in general, be it people, be it powers, be it even cooperation with other Baltic states, because our defence really begins with the protection of our neighbours. After all, the situation has been alarming, so we have talked about security issues every week in the government. The situation on the Belarusian-Lithuania border, on the Belarusian-Latvian border or on the Belarusian-Polish border also directly affects our security here. So I support the Commander of the Defence Forces in all his activities. He has taken bold steps to strengthen Estonia's defence capabilities. The risk analysis prior to the vaccination of the Defence Forces also showed that if the Defence Forces in both large numbers become ill or must remain isolated because they are unvaccinated, this is a problem for the Estonian military activities, the activities of the Defence Forces both during the war and for the tasks that the Defence Forces have during the peacetime.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U100	The question to be specified. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U101	Thank you. Well, you still clearly do not understand the nature of civil control and the methods of civil control. I haven't seen a mass death to the COVID or even mass sickness to the COVID in the Defence Forces. It's just ridiculous. But I'm coming up on another line, where you obviously also have a lack of civil control or a complete lack of control. We're talking police action. We have repeatedly talked about events in this format in April when protestors were terrorized by dogs, arrests, searches and humiliations. We've been asking about Haeska's shooting when a policeman who lost his nerves just shot an unaccountable person on the spot. We don't know what happened, what the I.A.'s come up with. What we do know is that there is a relationship between a police officer and the chief of the police station. Now the last [example]. On the 5th of October, the police brutally acted with the unsolicited, not wanted, not treated, not accused Jaan Hatto, smashed the door of his house, cuffed him, cuffed him on the floor with his hands for five hours, and smashed his sauna door. All on the pretext of looking for a fugitive who obviously wasn't in that house, at least not at that moment. There were great forces involved, dogs, helicopters. At the same time, we have relapses, we have 135 or 136 people who are wanted, including dangerous relapses, but no such force is used to search for them. Again, the question is, how did you know about this massive operation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U102	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U103	Thank you. I see it's a full moon and you're in good shape. First of all, I'd like to get rid of this militia thing. You're saying there's no mass sickness in the Defence Forces. But that's why there's no massive illness that more than 90% of the militia have been vaccinated. That's why we don't see disease. The militia were also one of the first to receive the vaccine. So that's why we don't see these diseases. Now what you're asking about this case. You presented it, of course, in a literaryly very fascinating key, but let's talk about things the way things are. It was a wanted person, a person suspected of a crime, who had kept out of court proceedings, who was hiding with that particular person, and that particular person did not really cooperate with the police. So if the person suspected of committing a crime is still hiding in this way, fleeing court proceedings and running it longer, then the police will have to take appropriate measures, because otherwise we would have nihilism and anarchy, if criminals or people who are suspected of a crime could simply avoid legal proceedings and nothing would happen. No! Yes, it will. If you have committed a crime, if you have been questioned, you must be able to deal with it. The courts dealing with this and the police will ensure that persons suspected of a crime are still brought to justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U104	Thank you. I think that the President of the Riigikogu is always expected to do so and I always react: be it the new moon, the full moon or the old moon, please respect the members of the Riigikogu by the government and vice versa. A procedural question. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U105	Yes, I had the same subject, I would have asked the Presidency to call the Prime Minister to order. The creation or shrinking of the moon is absolutely irrelevant to these issues. In answering the question, he forgot that there was a concept such as a proportionate use of force. Jaan Hatto, whose assets were violated and where excessive force was used, was not wanted, was not suspected, and everything that was done to him is essentially illegal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U106	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I say once again that we have the opportunity to ask procedural questions in Riigikogu Question Time, but we do not have the opportunity to create a round of negotiations here. A further question. Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U107	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Madam Prime Minister! In spring, when there was a question of a possible reduction in defence costs, the Defence Forces began to implement it quickly and quite a number of people were made redundant. Now, of course, fortunately for us, it has become clear that defence costs are now rising, they are rising to 2.31% of GDP, and we are talking about a total of 249,6 million, for which I sincerely want to congratulate the government. But people got laid off. Now on, as far as vaccination is concerned, a number of members of the Defence Forces left the service because they sensed it as a pressure. I will give you a concrete example, Lieutenant Colonel Moora, who did this. In the end, 34 people have now been released from service. For example, Major Paas, a man of all wars, a man of every impeccable service, was just released. If we put all these numbers together, it's actually going to be a pretty big loss of personnel. The Defence Forces have had problems teaching all conscripts because there hasn't been enough footage. How is the Defence Forces in these conditions after these three waves able to perform their duties properly?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U108	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U109	Thank you. First of all, the fact that there is a full moon is a constant, just like the fact that the weather is not beautiful today. It wasn't meant to be... I didn't understand that comment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U110	That remark had to do with how you responded to Mart Helme. If it had been the other way around, I'd have gotten involved in it the same way. Please, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U111	It would be nice if only Mart and Moonika Helme were not protected, but protected others. But that's it. I will now go specifically to this question. There have been, as I said, various waves of illness in the Defence Forces. When we talk specifically about these last steps, as I said earlier, this has been a risk analysis by the Commander of the Defence Forces concerning the people who work in the Defence Forces. All people working in the Defence Forces are necessary both during wartime and during peacetime, and therefore their isolation poses a threat to the continuity of the entire Defence Forces. It is true that we have allocated more money to the defence budget than ever before, that next year the defence budget will increase by EUR 104 million, and that is certainly good for strengthening our defence capabilities. We can also discuss in the Committee on National Defence what exactly steps are taken to increase defence capabilities: what are these concrete steps? But I think it's important that we have the ability in the form of technology and that the Defence Forces function and are not excluded from these tasks because of illness.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U112	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U113	Let's move on to question nine. The question is asked by the member of the Riigikogu Merry Aart, which is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas and the topic is apartments for Afghans. Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U114	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! Indeed, my question concerns the creation of living conditions for refugees, and it would be better to say that searching for living opportunities. There's information that the government of the Republic has ordered, or it might be more appropriate to say that they're looking for ways to find apartments for the Afghans. It has been heard that there is a desire to find an apartment for up to 3,000 Afghans, including up to 2500 in Viru County, some part of Jõgeva County and somewhere else. Estonia is very small and everyone knows everyone. That kind of information moves around a lot of people, I've heard it from at least three people. Is this information merely a village story that can be true, or is there a grain of truth in this story? I just want information from the source.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U115	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U116	Hi! I'm sorry! I already, yeah... It's a village story, there's no such thing. 3000 Afghans, that's not true. Let's see what we've agreed. We have agreed to help 30 Afghans. In fact, five of them come from European Union programmes or from people agreed by the European Union and another [five] from NATO. In addition, there are 20 other people who are involved with non-profit organisations that have helped Estonia. The question of how many of these people have come to Estonia by now. As far as I know, 16 of them have arrived here. They've asked for asylum. We have a legal asylum procedure, i.e. the Police and Border Guard Board will assess whether or not they can receive international protection. But yes, the story of 3,000 Afghans is definitely a conspiracy theory or a village story, and that's not true. There are indeed difficult times in Afghanistan, but we do not know that mass migration from there will move towards Europe. In addition, European countries have learnt lessons from 2015. On this basis, it is the countries of origin and those countries around Afghanistan that want to negotiate in order to support these people there and to avoid migratory pressure on Europe, including Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U117	The question to be specified. Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U118	Thank you for your answer. Let me get this straight. Actually, 30 Afghans plus 20, in total, Estonia offers...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U119	That's 30.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U120	Merry Aart, please, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U121	... 30 in total and no apartment search?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U122	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U123	Thank you. Let us see that we really have the legal obligations to help those people who have received international protection. At the moment, all these people are at the asylum centre for applicants for international protection and, as I said, the decisions on applications come from the Police and Border Guard Board. But they will enjoy all the same rights and opportunities. If you read the law, what is the Estonian state obliged to do? He or she is obliged to help these people settle down, but this does not constitute a financial contribution other than the costs of concluding a rental contract. This does not mean that the rent will be paid, but that it will help to cover the costs of concluding the contract so that they can find housing. If they have received international protection, they are actually entitled to the same benefits as Estonians, Estonian residents, be they child benefits, social benefits or other such benefits.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U124	Now, one more question. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U125	Thank you very much, Mr President. Austet Prime Minister! There has been a lot of talk here today about how unfortunately we have lost civilian control of the power structures. I very much hope that not permanently lost. There was also a lot of talk about this infamous attack on Jaan Hatto and the chasing of Kaldalu. But the question is specific. We realized that Jaan Hatto wasn't at all guilty of being violently treated like this. Is the moral, spiritual, and material damage caused to him compensated by the State or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U126	Thank you. I'm just saying that right now we're on the question that Merry Aart put on and this is apartments for Afghans. But, of course, the Prime Minister will have the opportunity to respond if he so wishes. Please, Kaja Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U127	Yeah, thanks! I'll get it. In my opinion, it is not a good tone in the Chamber of Riigikogu to discuss any particular processes taking place in court. If this particular person was harmed by police action, he or she shall have the opportunity and right of recourse to law enforcement authorities and law enforcement authorities, including the court, shall decide whether he or she is entitled to compensation, whether or not he or she has been subjected to excessive force. In my opinion, it is not correct to discuss individual cases in this Chamber of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U128	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. We don't have any more registered topics.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U129	Dear members of the Riigikogu, if you have any questions, please put yourself in line for speaking. I would ask a member of the Riigikogu to first tell who the question goes to and then what is the content of the question. As usual, we have two minutes. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U130	Thank you, Mr President. My question is to Kaja Kallas. After the election on Monday, I received a very busy call from a family doctor who announced that he had been given the government's obligation to vaccinate 120 people a week before your government's order came into force. The issue is problematic in the sense that this obligation applies to all family doctors. As a result, we do not care about people's health, whether they are susceptible to this vaccine or not, because there are also autoimmune people, as well as those who are not at all affected by this injection. For example, it may be that a person sent me a message today that his partner received another injection of Pfizer last Friday, at first it was pretty good, the first one had only a sore hand, now after the second heart and half the body were paralyzed, the age is 52 years, not going over, had to take the sick list because it's so bad. I could keep doing this. But the point is, this policy of yours is now, I would like to say straight away, a deadly and crippled course of action. At this point, it is not at all that we have medical treatments, but that you are implementing Pfizer contracts that have been leaked for a long time. The Pfizer Treaty prohibits the use of other medicinal products that have long been used by the rest of the world. I am now asking the question asked by the people: when will you resign, because what you are doing is not normal?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U131	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U132	Thank you. I should say you're making some kind of rumor here that isn't true. Yesterday, I had a very good meeting with family doctors, which included vaccination. I am grateful to all family doctors and family nurses who have carried out vaccinations and who have been in contact with older people. They are the ones who listen to the advice of a family doctor, for it is the person they trust, whom they are constantly in contact with. If these people say it's worth vaccinating, because it protects, it's worth believing. A family doctor described to me that if a person says he's still waiting, he'll tell a person that you know you can wait, but we don't want this disease to catch you first, and that's why my recommendation is to vaccinate. So the family doctors have done a very grateful job. Yesterday, there was also news that there are 175 people in Estonia - 175 people! For whom vaccination is contra-indicated. There are not thousands, and there are not hundreds of thousands, but 175. For 175 people for whom vaccination is contraindicated, a specific ingredient may be contraindicated. Since we have vaccines based on different technologies, we have vaccines based on different ingredients, I believe that we will also find a suitable vaccine that does not have such dangerous effects. Of course, vaccination has side effects. It's not like anyone denied it. Sometimes these side effects are stronger, sometimes they are weaker, but after all, they are less severe than in the case of serious illness. So your conspiracy theory about not allowing other treatments isn't true. We're treating people in hospitals, we've got 413 people in the hospital. We have set aside money for the purchase of Remdesivir, which also helps to shorten the course of the disease for those who are in the hospital. You're saying Pfizer's kind of a problem. We have vaccine agreements with different manufacturers. We have Moderna, Pfizer, Janssen, we have AstraZeneca. So there are other possibilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U133	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U134	Thank you. My question is to the Prime Minister. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! I'm still talking about the same subject. You yourself have also admitted in this very hall today that vaccinated people will also be infected, sick and severely suffering from the COVID virus. However, only unvaccinated people have been restricted. They were tested so far, there was an overview of their illness. Vaccinated people are not tested and there is no statistical record of how many people have been infected among them. Now the government basically favors the spread of the virus, the production of monsters, and disease among vaccinated people. My question is this: for what reason are vaccinated and unvaccinated people treated unequally, what is the basis of this logic and what is this justification?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U135	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U136	Thank you. I'll answer again. We have a high level of disease spread and hospitals are overloaded. 413 people are in hospital with COVID-19 disease. 94% of those in intensive care have not been vaccinated. I didn't say vaccinated people wouldn't get infected. However, the scientific council has also presented us with information in the government that vaccinated people will spread the disease less, and if they get the disease, they will not suffer from the disease so badly, the numbers will show it very clearly. At the same level of illness, we have fewer people in the hospital today than we had in the spring, so we have fewer seriously ill people. So once again, vaccinated people are suffering from this disease more easily. If we have such a high level of disease spread, in order to protect hospitals, so that we do not have to limit scheduled treatment and emergency treatment, but we can still ensure that hospitals are able to function properly, we need to limit the movement of unvaccinated people, contact with others. It is because they are the ones who can get seriously ill and suffer from this disease so seriously that hospitals are overloaded.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U137	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U138	Thank you. Prime Minister! Why do you pressure young people and children to vaccinate themselves? Please explain.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U139	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U140	Thank you. We do not pressure children and young people to vaccinate themselves, but we do have rules in place so that vaccinated children can continue to go to school and should not be self-insulated. This is true both in recreational education and in schools. If someone gets sick, they're gonna have to stay at home with those kids in close contact who aren't vaccinated. All this so we don't have to go to distance school again. So that's the reason. Many parents have decided to vaccinate their children. In the age group of 12 to 18 years, 45.5% were vaccinated at one dose yesterday. Among the 16- to 18-year-olds, the level of vaccination is even higher than that of the 18- to 29-year-olds. Feedback from schools is that children and young people who are not vaccinated still fall ill. Vaccinated people can continue to go to school, and that should also be the purpose.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U141	I will conclude on this issue. Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U142	For the Prime Minister, there is a question. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! There were a few words to talk about the Orchestra of the Defence Forces. There's actually a problem here. In fact, we've talked about the Defence Orchestra before, and we've heard it's starting to work out, the orchestra goes under the museum, and it's great. But I am in close contact with the musicians who played both in the Defence Forces Orchestra and in the former Border Guard Orchestra. Well, with the Border Guard Orchestra it's clear that he's now been made a political orchestra under the Tallinn City Government and is no longer a ceremonial orchestra of the state. But when it comes to the Orchestra of the Defence Forces, contracts are being made. The way these contracts are, they're gonna be hired part-time. A lot of musicians don't want to go to work part-time like this, and that means that this orchestra is slowly falling apart. I've also spoken to former orchestra leaders. To make a ceremonial orchestra, it takes years for his tattoos, international recognition, all to be preserved and developed. We're breaking down this orchestra right now, and we're getting some kind of 20-man way of saying nicely now, an orchestra that, of course, plays the stories because there are professional musicians there, but no more international events with tattoos and all kinds of other trick marches they won't be able to do in the future. How do we solve this problem? I say, from the point of view of defence, he must be restored as an orchestra of the Defence Forces.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U143	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U144	Thank you. I've read history. This orchestra has actually been under very different names. Since I don't have this material with me now, I remember that in the early days he was probably a military orchestra, the orchestra's name and the orchestra were changed. For example, by the way, he was one of the differences with the years I could, of course, be wrong; I will not use them in the Tallinn garrison orchestra. These phases have been different. What's important? What's important is that these people, with 34 of them, have signed these contracts. I understand, at least according to the information I've been given, they're the same people who used to be in the Defense Orchestra. In addition to working under the War Museum, they have the opportunity to earn their own income, which they did not have in the past. It is through additional concerts, record agreements that they have the opportunity to earn self-profit, all of which they have. This orchestra started October 1st. The Estonian people are right to say that give time to set the tide. As we saw at the presidential inauguration ceremony, this orchestra plays very well together.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U145	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. I thank the members of the government for their reply, I thank the members of the Riigikogu for asking. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U146	Ladies and gentlemen, It is now 14 o'clock, we will start the 5th working week session on Wednesday. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. You don't see that wish, so we're going to do a presence check. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U147	73 members of the Riigikogu registered.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U148	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the draft law on the ratification of the Agreement to facilitate and terminate investment between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland, initiated by the Government of the Republic, number 401. We're in the middle of a second reading. I would like to ask Mr Henn Põllea, member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, to speak as a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U149	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The explanation of this long-titled draft is quite brief. The first reading of the draft was closed on 15 September, with no amendments tabled by the deadline of 29 September 2021 at 5.15 p.m. The question was also discussed by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and no further questions were raised there. The Committee on Foreign Affairs decided by consensus at its meeting on 11 October to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft 401 be put on the agenda for the second reading of the plenary session on Wednesday 20 October, to conclude the second reading and to hold the final vote. If good colleagues have questions, I'm ready to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U150	And there is at least one question, but before we go to them, colleagues, I really ask you to keep it down in the hall a little bit. I think Henn will find it very difficult to hear the question otherwise. Please, Tarmo Kruusimäe!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U151	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I would like to know whether this possibility was also discussed: if, now, in Brexit's light, there may not be separations, but mergers, for example, Northern Ireland will join Ireland, whether we should reconsider this law or whether you have any information that this will not happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U152	Thank you. It's probably not gonna happen like this. The proposal for this law was submitted to Estonia by the UK embassy of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. This is an initiative on their part and regardless of their status and their situation in the future, this agreement terminates the agreement between Estonia and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, which regulates the relationship between investors. However, investor protection will not be reduced in the future and equal treatment between Estonian and UK investors, including Northern Ireland, will be ensured by the European Union and their trade and cooperation agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U153	No further questions. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U154	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U155	I'm opening negotiations. There are no requests to speak. The commission has proposed a final vote on draft 401. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put to the vote before you the draft Act ratifying the agreement on the termination of the Agreement on Investment and Protection between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland 401. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U156	The proposal was supported by 79 respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U157	Our second item today is the draft State Budget Act 2022 initiated by the Government of the Republic, which bears the number 464. I ask for a first-reading presentation of the speech chair as representative of the Government of the Republic of Estonia by the Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimpus.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U158	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good chairman of the sitting! The two-year crisis, which has been very persistently retreating, has certainly put people's spirit to the test, as well as their physique, to the test of economic, health, national and transnational relations. During this period, we have also had to react quickly and accurately when planning public spending, to counterbalance the unpredictable environment and to provide relief where it has been most necessary. We can now say that, despite all the struggles of the corona crisis, Estonia has rapidly gathered itself in economic terms and, after a deep fall in 2020, the economy is recovering. You will be faced with the draft state budget for the following year, the draft state budget for 2022, which is intended to alleviate the ongoing crisis pain. But above all, Estonia's long-term interests are at the heart of the state budget for 2022. There is still a great deal of uncertainty in the economic environment around us. Growth forecasts are based in particular on the assumption that vaccination will get rid of stumps and that there will be no more over-the-counter restrictions on people and the economy. The current crisis in the Baltic Sea region of the European Union, which is most closely connected with Estonia, has not been as deep as it was in 2009. In 2009, for example, Finland's GDP fell by 8.1%, Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia's GDP by more than 14%, Germany by 5.7%, but in the first year of the corona crisis, 2020 the fall was 3% in Estonia, Latvia by 3.6%, Lithuania by 0.1%, Finland by 2.9%, Germany by 4.6% and Sweden by 2.8%. The economy has turned to growth throughout Europe in the first half of this year. The average economic growth in the EU countries was 5.8% in the first half of this year, 6.1% in the euro area, 3.1% in Finland, 4.4% in Sweden, 4.9% in Latvia and 4.8% in Lithuania, respectively. Estonia's growth was 8.5% in the first half of this year. In other words, one of the European Union's fastest recovery economies is Estonia's. In the second quarter of this year, our GDP already exceeded pre-crisis levels by 6.7%. Why is all this important? The external environment is important in the Estonian economy's view and the external environment has been good at the moment. Strong external demand has led to growing export orders. Capacity utilisation is at the highest level in the last 14 years. More rapid growth, even faster recovery, is currently mainly hampered by supply problems and the lack of equipment, according to the operators themselves. The effective recovery has so far been supported by less restrictive and short-term restrictions on movement and activity than in the rest of the world, and also by precisely targeted state support on the brink of the crisis. If in the overall plan we can say that the economy has endured the crisis well, then this recovery has been very diverse. The ICT sector has grown, but culture, accommodation and catering are still waiting for recovery. The labour market situation is also controversial. On the one hand, we are probably all hearing how entrepreneurs are struggling with labour shortages. At the same time, unemployment remains high at more than 5%. While the information and communication sectors, including health, have shown growth in employment during the crisis, jobs are still less than in most sectors of activity before the crisis. The rapid increase in these fewer jobs actually means that the crisis has been used to increase productivity in our business. How permanent it is, we will surely see it in the next few years. Wage growth slowed significantly during last year's emergency situation, but incomes are now growing rapidly again. The private sector is carrying wage growth and this wage growth will reach 7% this year and will last more than 5% every four years. Better payment of social tax will also increase the average old-age pension by nearly 8% next year, so the average pension will reach EUR 590 in the new year. The Ministry of Finance forecasts an increase of 4% in Estonia's gross domestic product in 2022. The total volume of the economy will reach EUR 32.4 billion next year. People's incomes are growing, tax revenues are improving, the most sensitive and important areas for the future will receive good support. The state's financial situation will also improve. The increase in costs is under control, the deficit is decreasing and we are moving towards a balance between revenue and expenditure. Honourable Members! These individual figures in the state budget are certainly all eloquent, but even more important is the objective that the whole is carrying. Estonia's long-term interests are at the heart of the state budget for 2022, as has been said. Estonia's long-term interest is the happy people who manage themselves, who peacefully carry out their life's dreams in a democratic spirit. Happiness is not about money, of course, but a secure and adequate income is peace of mind and satisfaction for every person, every family. Estonia's long-term interest is that average income, average wages would rise to the top of the European Union, and the average pension would be at least 40% of the average salary at one point. Next year, teachers' salaries will rise by 7.3%, doctors' nurses' salaries will rise by 8%, higher education cultural workers' salaries by 7.5%, rescuers' salaries by 12%, front-line policemen's wages by 5%. And, as has been said, pensions for retired people will rise by nearly 8%. Estonia's long-term interest is also to be among the winners of international economic competition, to be a high-value player in the international division of labour. The global economy is experiencing a green and digital technological revolution. Our success and ability to go along with it in time will depend on both the wages and pensions of Estonian people in the coming years. That is why, for the sake of a more secure future for our people, next year we will invest EUR 190 million in green and digital conversions from the euro grants for the new period. But if you look beyond one year, in the coming years, with the help of euro money, the green and digital revolution will be funded in Estonia with 2.2 billion euros. I take this opportunity to thank the previous government that started this plan. Estonia's long-term interest is also greater productivity in the economy. It also depends on the salaries of our people, on pensions and on the well-being of society as a whole. Increased productivity is not possible without technology, without scientific innovation, without smart and research-intensive entrepreneurship. That is why next year we will invest 1% of GDP in R &amp; D, or EUR 324 million. Estonia's long-term interest is diverse, but a united society, where segregation has no place, where there is no place for educational segregation. Every resident of Estonia must have the opportunity to become a part of the world's top educational system, participate in the high-level education of our universities and, of course, be able to find profitable jobs. A common education system in Estonian is a prerequisite for this. You will be discussing the Estonian-language education agenda in Parliament in the coming months. We have reserved EUR 5 million for this action plan from the government reserve fund next year. This is complemented by 8 million euros from the Ministry of Education and Research and 2.4 million euros from the Ministry of Culture budget. In the interests of our people of other nationalities, in the interests of their self-realization opportunities, incomes and happiness in life, we invest in a uniform transition to education in Estonian. Estonia's long-term interest is the security of the state. To ensure that the people of Estonia do not have to worry about the independence of their country or the future of their people, we invest in national defence, 2.3% of GDP in increasing the efficiency of the Estonian state's deterrence capacity, which is almost EUR 750 million historically. This money helps to fill the gaps faster, helps to strengthen Estonia's security. In any case, Estonia's long-term interest is also the continuation and wearing of our culture. In addition to the spirit - sustaining task, culture also directly supports our economy. The role of culture and creative industries is becoming increasingly fundamental in Estonia. Each euro invested in culture is amplified by an average of five. If you will allow me, one of the best examples to be given in this area, Estonia's film has made Estonia a big player in the world. About a third of the film's budget is used to produce the film itself, the rest reaches all the sectors involved, from catering to design. Lasting funding in this area will also increase to EUR 7 million from next year. Estonia's long-term interest is the economic survival of the state in both good and poorer times, coping without external aid, without policy choices imposed on it due to debts. Estonia's long-term interest is financial dignity. Estonia's long-term interest is that demographic changes are already taking place today, but in the near future, increasing in the next decades, would not result in an increase in the tax burden, which would ultimately stifle our people's entrepreneurial spirit and the hope of a better life for our middle class, both teachers, doctors and engineers. In order to ensure that tax pressure does not become intolerable for a declining working-age population, it is absolutely inevitable to keep public expenditure under control, to modernise the public apparatus built on a layer over a period of 30 years. For these purposes, for the sake of state independence and lower taxes on our people, but also in order to avoid further price increases and overheating, we will keep expenditure under control in next year's budget and reduce the budget deficit to a reasonable level in the current financial environment. I have listened with surprise to the comments which seriously state that in the context of economic growth and improving tax revenue, budgetary problems and budget deficits will disappear as if in themselves. No, it won't. In itself, only the costs increase and the desire to use tax money is added. Keeping expenditure under control will in any case require choices from politicians and will also require an effort in a growing economy, by the way, in particular. When we put together the budget for 2022, we have had this in mind with the Cabinet. Public budget revenue will increase by 17% next year, expenditure will increase by 3% next year. A further year ago, from the planned structural deficit of 4.9% in 2022, we will be reaching a deficit of 2.6% in next year's budget. That's 739 million in a better position. Yes, there is still a long way to go before we can match the income and expenses in Estonia again, but a long step towards the good form of public finances in Estonia's long-term interest we will still move with your help. But short-term troubles. Estonia's short-term concern is now, as is the health crisis around the world. To cope with the crisis and to repair the damage caused by the crisis, we will make a direct contribution of over EUR 150 million next year. This money goes, among other things, to improve school gaps caused by the virus; it goes over EUR 38 million for vaccination; it goes over EUR 19 million for testing. And for the first time, we are also channeling EUR 3 million from the state budget to systematically pay attention to mental health issues. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The 2022 budget does not solve all the needs of Estonia's long-term interests at the same time, but takes a very significant step of 13.6 billion in order to ensure that the future outlook of the Estonian people is more secure. I would like to thank everyone who has contributed to the preparation of the budget for 2022. Honourable Riigikogu, a good debate on the choices of the budget for 2022! I'd be happy to answer your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U159	And they're nice. Priit onion begins.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U160	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. I did not count, but I think one of the most frequently used terms in this draft budget is 'long-term interests of Estonia'. You referred to the rise in teachers' salaries of 7.3%, and that is commendable. I have a question of how much in the government was the subject of teacher follow-up and whether there was at all one. Surely this amount is reasonable and necessary, but the increase in teachers' salaries will not solve this problem. Is and [if, then] in what form does the government take into account in the budget strategy and how much have you talked about teachers' successors?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U161	Thank you very much. That's a very good question. This has been the subject not only of making next year's budget, but also more broadly. Aftergrowth of teachers, but in fact, secondary growth in a number of other sectors, which is critical to Estonia's long-term interests, is important. And I agree that wage growth over 7% next year will not fully solve this problem. But I think it's important, though. It is precisely because, without this decision, the average wage of teachers in terms of the minimum wage would be significantly behind the average wage in the country. And we can't allow that. Of course, the goal and desire, the ambition is that this salary will be higher than the average wage in the coming years, considerably higher. And this, I repeat, is not just about teachers; it is actually about higher education workers in the same way. Last week's Question Time gave us an opportunity to exchange views on the subject. There must not be a situation where the difference between the two levels of education becomes very large. There must not be a situation where wages in higher education are essentially at the same level. So both need a good effort, both have been the subject. And certainly raising wages according to budget possibilities is one way to increase the interest in teachers' secondary growth.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U162	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U163	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister of Finance! I am not asking about numbers at all now, because it can be done here today and in the course of further proceedings. I am asking about the principles of the state budget. I am asking about the country's strategic objectives: what are the country's strategic objectives? Have they been specifically formulated somewhere in relation to state budget disbursements? Why don't you open up some of those connections? They are said to take precedence over the decisions of Members during the current government. But we are talking here about regional subsidies, where the will of a Member is sovereign and can no longer be changed once the state budget is approved without breaking the state budget law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U164	Thank you. There was a bit of bird language here, which we both understand. The long-term interests of the country, the country's strategic goals, I spoke at length in my introductory speech, and I will not repeat that. How the financial allocations approved and adopted by the state budget are paid out, how they reach those for whom they are intended, that is the background and point of the question. Since the adoption of last year's budget, the government has changed, but this year we are largely delivering on the basis of a budget approved by the previous government. The budget adopted during the previous government may include topics, decisions that the current government does not share in the details. In making decisions to channel money, we might have decided differently. Something can be changed by means of an additional budget or by amending the budget law. If the proposed changes are not included in either the supplementary budget or the amending budget law, whether or not they are acceptable to the head of the field, or the political minister, they must be complied with because Parliament has taken such a decision. So we could open a debate with you now on whether the decisions on last year's budget were all as they should be. I certainly have certain differences of opinion on these matters personally, but these decisions have been taken by Parliament and must be followed up.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U165	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U166	Thank you. Madam Minister! Today's budget has been drawn up according to the so-called baseline scenario, which [sees an increase of] 4%. The Board has also proposed that the potential for real life may be that this baseline scenario will not be fulfilled and that the same risk scenario, where we are talking about an increase of 2%, will actually take place. That's a pretty big budget gap, I'm guessing. What are your suggestions and plans when the risk scenario starts? In this case, for example, will the plans to cut before the summer forecast be triggered by the Ministry of Finance?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U167	Thank you, good questioner! I mean, what exactly do you mean by these austerity plans? If the reference was to the austerity tasks undertaken by the members of the government's cabinet when making the state's budget strategy, they have actually been fulfilled, except in two sectors: internal security, in the areas of administration and social affairs of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Justice. Other ministries and governments carried out an austerity task. However, as far as the opinion of the Fiscal Council is concerned, as has been well explained in the draft explanatory memorandum, we can still base the budget on only one estimate. We can't take a little bit of one and a little bit of the other. And therefore, the current budget has indeed been made on the basis of a basic forecast. As far as risk scenarios are concerned, the experts have assessed that [abnormalities] may actually be in both directions. There is a risk that the situation will become worse in terms of growth than in the baseline scenario, but there is also a risk that growth might turn out to be much faster than expected in the base forecast. If, next year, it can be seen that the forecast made in this overall uncertainty situation, which is based on the budget, differs significantly from developments and that adjustments are needed, it must be done as every year either by amending the budget law or with an additional budget. But the current budget really takes into account the basic forecast and one of the most important assumptions is, of course, the virus, the control of the virus, the pace of vaccination. Consequently, it is a prerequisite that there will be no complete shut-down of the economy. I think it is absolutely essential that this be the case. Not only the business sector directly, but also a number of other sectors are simply no longer able to withstand a new shut-down. So it is certainly important, that we must make an effort to do so, and that is the assumption that the draft budget has been drawn up.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U168	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U169	Thank you for the floor. Minister, thank you very much. Yesterday, we had a discussion in the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu on the activities of interest and the education of interest. The officials present pointed out, among other things, that the possibility of participating in recreational education and activities is essential especially for young people in this period in order to maintain their health, in particular their mental health. You are aware that you have demanded that the state funds for recreational activities be significantly reduced. You have said that local governments probably have enough money to compensate for this cut. Are you convinced that now that the local elections are over, all local authorities will be able to carry out this task and that children will not be able to participate in the activities of interest? And how is it consistent with this liemotiv in your introductory speech, with the long-term interest of Estonia if children are excluded from the activities of interest? And are you prepared to take responsibility for the fact that some children will not be able to engage in recreational activities in the coming year?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U170	Thank you for your question. You're putting words in my mouth that I certainly haven't said. I have never called for a reduction in the funding of recreational education anywhere. On the contrary, even here with you in Question Time on different occasions on this subject, I have considered it important to offer more opportunities for recreational education and stressed that next year the income of local governments will increase by 120 million euros, which will certainly provide opportunities for this. In addition to this increase in revenue, there are two rather specific measures in the budget before you that support the provision of education in the field of interest. One of them is the concept of a cultural pack, which will be essentially tested as a test period next year. This will amount to EUR 1 million a year. This is basic funding, which means that it is not a one-off allocation, but it will also be included in the budget for the coming years. This will certainly partly add to the possibilities of financing the education of interest. And the second allocation is 3 million euros through the Ministry of Education and Research. It is also intended to provide additional support for recreational education. But I would like to stress once again that, in fact, municipalities have contributed EUR 260 million per year to recreational education. The local governments, whose task it is, are doing so very well. And next year's additional revenue for municipalities in the form of EUR 120 million will provide a thriving opportunity for this. I believe that, if it is considered a priority on the ground, there are opportunities for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U171	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U172	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The budget really is awfully large. I looked at the social sphere; it is a matter of concern and close to my heart. In the current situation of the crown virus, human coping is greatly disturbed. I didn't notice it when I just didn't find it, so you're going to get [inversely confirmed], but I didn't notice there was a plan to raise the living limit. At present, this limit is 150 euros for the first adult, if there are children, 180 euros for each child. But the other adult has the limit of 120 euros, which means that the two adults living together are actually very small, which, after expenses, must remain in the apartment's hands. But there's no obvious cost on the phone or anything like that. And there's also a limit on utilities. Is an increase in the income support ceiling planned?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U173	Thank you. There were just over 10,000 beneficiaries of income support last year, and next year's forecast says that there are 10,235 households, to be exact. The border on income support must certainly be discussed in this Parliament as well as in the budgetary procedure. I followed an information session before the budget debate, where there was also a question about the amount of money earmarked for subsistence support. The question was whether and if so, how much this amount could change or should change, given that developments in recent times, namely the very rapid appreciation of different prices, can bring more households in need of income support. Perhaps, therefore, the budget should also be amended. The answer is that the amount of income support is the estimated cost. This expenditure is foreseen and will in any event be paid out according to the number of applicants. And it will also be paid when applicants are added to the current €150 limit. But I agree with the assessment that this border has not been changed for some time and that it needs to be discussed. I believe that we can do this together in Parliament during the budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U174	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U175	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I'm gonna ask you a little detail, but I'm gonna ask you about the character detail. On 27 February 2019 an administrative agreement was signed between the University of Tartu and the State. The state undertook to provide the necessary resources from the state budget to the university every year, and the agreement also provided that the application for operating support from the state budget would be based on the consumer price index and the increase in the average wage of graduate workers. This year's growth is expected at 9.5% and next year at 4%. This is not the same as the consumer price index, of course, but wage growth will rise to 7% this year and will remain so. However, according to my information, the planned increase in higher education operating support is only 3%. Is this information correct and, if so, is it really intended to violate the Treaty to such a large extent?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U176	Thank you. These discussions, which concern the financing of higher education and the future more broadly, are being held and taken very seriously by the Ministry of Education. Next year, an additional €5 million will be allocated to higher education operating grants. I don't have as detailed a calculation as you probably do right now, but the source of this is the internal resources of the field. This has also been about the issue of Priit Oniona. In order to increase teachers' pay, money has been allocated and it is clear that wage growth in higher education must also catch up. I cannot say this at this point in percentage, but I can confirm that an additional EUR 5 million has been allocated for operating grants next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U177	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U178	Thank you, good manager. Honourable Minister of Finance! You pointed out in your report that although the economy as a whole is on a growth trend, the tourism sector, culture, accommodation and catering still do not show signs of recovery. You are absolutely right, that is the case and, rather, the situation is the opposite. The Viru Hotel, the first skyscraper in Estonia, has not been so empty since its construction in October. When comparing the COVID support measures implemented in Estonia to the tourism sector, these are among the smallest in Europe compared to other countries. And I have the question of what the government envisages in this budget to support the tourism sector. And do you think that is enough, or is there a willingness in the government to further support the tourism sector, given that Estonia is in the red zone and there are fewer tourists coming to Estonia now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U179	Thank you. Firstly, I very much hope that the situation, if not actually normalised, will at least improve in the field of tourism as well. The additional budget, which we worked on in the Riigikogu at quite rapid pace this year and which we adopted in spring, actually provided additional support for this sector, which is in a very difficult situation. But the truth is that, at present, no one is risking making precise predictions, whether or not at all, when will the tourism sector reach pre-crisis levels. On the government side, on the state side, we can at least offer temporary relief. We are planning to allocate nearly EUR 45 million to the tourism sector by 2022.2025 in order to introduce Estonia's attractiveness to foreign visitors. It is primarily designed to increase Estonia's awareness and demand in foreign markets. It is also intended to transform the business models of tourist operators. It is likely that there have been changes in this area as a result of the coronation, which are longer-term and indeed require a transformation of business models. The marketing and development activities of business and conference tourism are separately proactive sales and marketing activities, which are also supported, and the crisis aid REACT-EU of the European Union, which we have discussed with you in this Parliament. From there, EUR 17.65 million will be allocated to the tourism sector, so that they can market distinctive tourist-friendly tourist products on the international market. So we offer support to this sector. In addition, I am not even going to single out this, it has certainly been an important wage support measure for this sector, too, which had to be used this year in the most acute months of the crisis. This is certainly an important area as a whole, which itself has made very serious efforts to cope. For this, they must only be praised and commended. And I'm sure we want the government to support them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U180	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U181	Thank you. Dear Minister, I have a technical question about the budget, it concerns budgetary transparency. I noted one news from the ERR that the construction of the Kapo house dramatically increases the budget for constitutional order. Indeed, a set of expenditures such as guaranteeing constitutional order exists at more than EUR 60 million in its volume, but there is no mention of the construction of the Kapo house. I was beginning to think that the security authority, maybe there's a need to keep this investment secret. But this year's budget has an exact amount: 10.9 million, with an additional budget of 4.7 million. My question is that when we talk about budgetary transparency, there is no reason to classify it on the basis of security aspects. Does the amount of money to be allocated for the construction of the Kapo house next year have to be included in the budget or does it not have to be?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U182	Thank you, good questioner! I do not know exactly what news you are referring to and, therefore, can not comment on whether this could affect precisely this year. The construction of the Kapo building is actually gaining more money as a result of this year's budget change, as it can be done faster than planned at the beginning. So I think it should be checked whether this reference concerned 2022 or 2021. As far as investments are concerned, all these investments, which exceed EUR 10 million, are well-defined in the draft budget for next year. Smaller investments have certainly been discussed in the explanatory memorandum. If we go beyond the concept of a particular subject, there will certainly be a debate and debate on some points later when we are talking about amending the basic law on the budget. How important is it, however, that the budget itself is included in the law for all investments? Should they be presented when it comes to investments larger than a certain limit number? And if so, what is the limit of what greater investments must be reflected in the budget? But yes, I will say once again that it would probably be necessary to clarify whether the specific news you referred to spoke from 2021, if this change really significantly increases the volume of investment, or from 2022.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U183	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U184	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns the details, namely the smaller investments that you have referred to in the explanatory memorandum. They are indeed found in the explanatory memorandum. My question concerns additional investments in the cultural field of EUR 1 million, of which 95% will go completely randomly to the election district of the Minister of Culture next year, a few months before the Riigikogu elections. The Minister said in the Committee on Culture that it was his discretion as Minister of Culture to decide where these investments would go. My question to you: maybe you could explain to us a little bit about the process of how these investment lists will develop? What is the discretion of the Minister, in this case the Minister of Culture, to direct almost all these investments, in this case 95%, to his own electoral area? And how many such discretions do other ministers have? How much money does each minister have that he can channel to his constituency just before the elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U185	Thank you. It would have been nice, and it would have been easier to answer if you had mentioned exactly what you were talking about, what investment. It would be easier to answer for a particular object or for a particular object. But, of course, it is the leader in each area who comes to the government with proposals for a spending and investment plan in their area. This has always been the case, and it is no different in the current government than before. How and on the basis of which decisions are made precisely, it must be transparent and understandable for everyone. Such, let's say, arbitrary decisions cannot be allowed by any member of the government, and I am quite sure that this has not been intended to be done in any way by the Minister of Culture. Finally, the budget is approved by Parliament. So if you have any reason to be very critical of the choice made or the decision taken in any area, it must be made clear during the budgetary procedure, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, that this issue must be taken up separately. However, as has been said, with a specific proposal for each area, the head of the field, the minister, the government will discuss it and this will be presented to Parliament in this form. But really, if you have a detailed question or a complaint about a particular object, name what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U186	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U187	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Honourable Minister of Finance! In the light of the green turn, it has become clear that protected forest land is a resource that produces value for society by linking CO2 and valuing the environment. Unfortunately, as far as the Estonian state budget is concerned, the nature reserves are always a cost component, not a revenue component. In the context of this cost component, it has been achieved over time that this land tax part of the land covered by nature conservation is not compensated for to the local government's budget. Has today's coalition, the government, discussed this issue? In fact, the municipality needs the money that is missing from the land under conservation. There are people living there, there are roads, and these people may also need public services. Was this discussed, and what is your position? Should this shortcoming be eliminated as soon as possible before the forthcoming land re-evaluation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U188	Thank you for your question. In brief, this was not discussed separately during the debate on this budget, and was not discussed separately. But it's an old dispute mother, it's been up all along. I think that the current Minister for the Environment, with his proposal on this subject, is likely to reach the government at some point. The essence of the dispute has been, among other things, how much and whether the municipality can actually benefit from natural values, protected lands, so it is not just a cost. Is this where the central government and the local government should be in some kind of conflicting positions, or should one compensate for something else, or is conservation and protection of natural values really a common interest and objective? But yes, I agree that this issue needs to be clarified. This was not the case in the course of this budget. However, this budget has added just over EUR 1 million to private owners who have to withstand conservation restrictions outside the Natura site in order to compensate for it. This, too, has been such a long - bounced and debated topic. But it'll be a relief next year. The land tax issue of municipalities still needs a separate discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U189	Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U190	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, From the draft budget, I read that the cost of developing victim support has been reduced by a quarter. However, we know from statistics that the situation with domestic violence has deteriorated during the pandemic. How can the reduction of this cost line be explained? And I'm sure the need for victim support has increased, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U191	Thank you. Once again, I will probably have to clarify the detail, and the provision of the service will certainly not be reduced. There are certain lines where the total amount of work carried out this year is lower, or, let's say, the total amount of purely technical work, but the volume of service itself is certainly not reduced. And once again, you are right that this is a subject and an area that regrettably needs less attention, not from year to year.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U192	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U193	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I will continue with my first question on the subject of teacher follow-up. Jaak White also once referred to the same subject when you spoke about the increase in teachers' salaries. This is, of course, reasonable, although, as you indicated, it will certainly not solve the problem of succeeding. But the rectors of higher education have also said that the people who teach teachers [are also expecting a raise]. In fact, the difference is now reeling. Only 3.2% of additional resources will be allocated to higher education, and this certainly does not motivate teachers to continue to do this work. What solution do you have for this? My second question concerns budgetary transparency. We have a good colleague who thinks that it may be better if Members do not understand the budget, but it still worries if even Aivar Sõerd does not understand it. Well, in my case, it's quite reasonable, but it's not for Sõerdi.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U194	Thank you. Aivar has left this hall, but Aivar understands the budget very well and often draws attention to the very right bottlenecks. I think a critical, sharp-eyed budget reader like him should be in every political party. Each party must have its own Aivar Sõerd, who takes note of everything and draws attention to everything. I myself have thought that if it weren't for Aivari, he should have come up with a lot of points that he has often made. Now, however, the salaries of universities and higher education positions at all. This, however, is not the case now that teachers' average salaries are higher than those of academic staff working in different universities as a result of the increase in teachers' pay. Just a few examples: In the University of Tartu, according to the statistics of the Rectors' Advisory Board itself, the average basic salary at full load is 2135 euros. This is an average wage that is not comparable to the average wage of teachers, it is still significantly higher. In TalTech, for example, it is just under 2500 euros: 2494 euros, in EEA 1672 euros. These are last year's numbers, there will be a certain increase in 2022. There is no dispute that there must certainly not be a situation where those who teach teachers receive less pay than teachers. The same additional allocation that will be planned next year is precisely included in this objective. So post-growth is important both in schools and universities.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U195	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U196	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'm asking about government funding. Indeed, colleagues have already asked here that the 4 million which are being taken away from the education of interest have an undeniable impact on access to education of interest, as well as on the salaries of teachers in the education of interest. There is no doubt about that, you just have to go a little further than Tallinn. However, the total amount of the fine-tuning fund has been reduced by nearly EUR 22 million. And it has been overlooked that, for example, kindergarten teachers pay is at the same level. This could also be corrected, as could teacher wage support, at least on the basis of the consumer price index. It is projected to increase by 3.7%. It would be right to adjust their salaries on the same scale as teachers in general education. Does the government want to signal that, apart from the pay of teachers in general education, there should be no other priority for local government?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U197	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U198	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U199	Minister of Finance! However, I will continue on educational issues. You stressed in your speech that teachers' salaries were expected to rise by slightly more than 7%. At the same time, there is a race against inflation of the same magnitude, which essentially eats up this wage increase. This is also accompanied by the fact that even 7% is not enough to formulate the word pair 'national priority' that we are using. It is difficult for me to understand why you do not allocate enough resources to maintain and invest in the education system with which you have boasted just now, but which is on the verge of an extremely strong crisis, because the drought of teachers is already a reality today. I would add that at the level of the government, it was decided to allocate 5% to the salary increase and 2% more had to be found by the Minister of HTM himself. This in no way confirms what we could call a national priority.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U200	Thank you. It is quite common for wage increases or, let's say, wage fund growth to be allocated centrally to the budget first and, in addition, for each area to find more money at the expense of own resources or internally redesigning its priorities. It's definitely not a first, and I'm pretty sure that's not the last time. Similarly, in the area of internal security, for example, Mr Jaani has done, and I think it is very well that he has done so. We were in a bit of a difficult situation this year because the state budget approved at the end of last year did not foresee any increase in teachers' salaries in 2021. This was a problem because, if in one year there is no helping pay, then a bigger leap will have to be made in the next year or in the coming years. And, of course, it is difficult to back up in one year and maintain the level that we certainly wanted. However, I say that 7.3% of wage growth is important and that is the maximum that can be done at the moment. It is not accurate that inflation will eat up this growth in wages as a whole. Inflation will certainly be significantly lower next year, at least according to current forecasts, but this will, of course, have an impact. But there is also an increase in real wages, real purchasing power at 7.3% wage growth. I guess we'd all like to make such decisions in one year to make up for all the forced break in between, but that's just not possible. As much as possible, but it can be done, and I think it's important.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U201	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U202	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'm now giving you the opportunity to send good news to the people of the country. We're now being watched by tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of people on TV. At the beginning of our composition, a plan of state reform was brought to the table, and he is now standing somewhere on committees, waiting for his time. However, the fact is that its purpose was, among other things, to clarify the functions of the municipality and the state after the local government's boundaries were made [the circle]. This also includes, of course, clarity as to the various financial amounts. Of course, it is extremely good to hear that, in the case of a 13 billion budget, 120 million will be allocated to local authorities. Okay, maybe it's not that much, but still. Now, why don't you tell me what the 120 million on your structure is? The people of local government who are looking at us now may then find out how this separation works, on what basis. You could say it this way: it would not be the case that 100 million to Tallinn and other parts of Harjumaa and 20 million to the rest of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U203	Thank you. 120 million is not next year's allocation to municipalities, that is an additional amount. In total, the revenues of local governments will be over 2 billion euros next year. For the first time, this amount exceeds 2 billion. So much for clarification first. I myself have always believed that it is not really a matter for the state to stick to the label, why and how local governments have to use this money. The more money the municipality has without a label, the more local government leaders have the freedom to decide how they can cover local priorities with this money, the better. The same is true of this additional revenue. It is none of our business to say, either from the government or, hopefully, from Parliament, how to use this money. It's a municipal choice. How's that money gonna split? The share of income tax is broken down by how many tax payers there are in the municipality. I have also proposed the idea that income tax could be collected in the future by the municipality as a whole would be a municipal tax. This is certainly the subject of a longer debate on the future. I don't have all the municipal budgets available right now. After the elections, the budgets are still beginning to develop in the municipalities. So in detail, I can't answer you. It can be said that the total revenue of the municipalities will be more than EUR 2 billion next year. I believe that they make very wise choices on the ground and channel this money to the best possible places.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U204	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U205	Thank you. These are the investments of the Minister of Culture, just for the verbatim. Explanatory note to page 102: Haanjamaa Sport SA, Valgamaa Permanent Exposition of Patriotic Education, Võru Municipality Government, Võru City. Everyone's from around here. But, in fact, I would like to ask you about what my colleague, Viktoria Ladynskaya-Kubits, was about: the salaries of teachers. As it became clear here, part of this money must be found by the Minister of Education in his internal reserves. As far as I am aware last week, Minister Liina Kersna in the Committee on Monetary Affairs was unable to answer the question of where she would find the EUR 5 million missing in order to ensure that the wage increases promised were paid to teachers. Now, for the first reading of the draft state budget, has it become clear to you or the Minister for Education and Research where this money comes from? What are the reserves that will be reduced?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U206	Thank you. It is not precise that this is a reduction in reserves. Within the framework of the Ministry of Education's own budget, it is also possible to redirect funds for management costs to increase teachers' salaries. And it's being prepared by the Ministry of Education. I cannot comment on the statement concerning the previous meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. But I do know that the Ministry of Education is precisely intending to raise the money for management costs by raising additional money to increase teachers' salaries.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U207	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U208	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I was watching, on page 302, there's 3.14.2.1.7 of the program activity: Animal welfare. Clearly, we are a welfare society and we also notice animals alongside us, but people should also be taken into account. This indicates the number of animals used in animal testing, which has been 2,900 in 2021 and 2,800 in the following year. In view of the fact that we, for example, have an extremely large population of predators, even if, for example, we have half as many bears as we need, they are destroying honey [tars], could it not be possible to replace any [test] animals with predators?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U209	Thank you. No, it's not.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U210	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U211	Thank you. The month of October is known to be a month of mental health. I'm sure this is serious. This is serious in the sense that we know that workers are facing more and more problems in work families, we already know from the 2018 survey that our children are not going to school with joy, we know that overeating, malnourishing are problems and mental health is a challenge. All this has been sealed by COVID's crisis. I'm asking you that you once referred to mental health. But how are we really gonna handle this? This invisible enemy is hitting more and more among us. And the sad fact is, we're in the role of a red lantern, especially for the suicide trials of young people and children.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U212	Thank you. This is really serious. Next year, EUR 3 million will be available to finance such a systemic approach that it will not be [of interest] just a few pieces that do not fit together as a whole. I think this is a particularly important decision. It may seem that this is a very small matter in terms of the total budget, but it is still important to start with. This EUR 3 million fund community psychologist services in local governments, including an increase in funding for school psychologists and clinical psychologists. It is the last thing that has been debated in this House for years in the course of various budgets, which has been raised on this issue. In this year's budget for 2021, money is also foreseen for this year, and this amount will increase next year. In addition to these two, the services specifically targeted at children are in order to avoid situations where, at a very young age, a very critical situation or a critical threshold has been reached. It is necessary to find such young people as early as possible and to provide them with support so that they do not become trapped in their heads but actually receive help. So this EUR 3 million is an important funding for this very serious issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U213	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U214	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'm trying to ask you a little bit differently, so maybe I'll get a little longer than three words. Did the government consider this and why, in fact, the measure was not taken to increase the pay of kindergarten teachers by at least an increase in the consumer price index, not to mention that it would have been fair to adjust it from the average wage [based on]? And the other part of the question is [about] that the municipalities applied for a tea deposit of 45 million. The government found that there were 30 million. 33% were pulled out of it. What was it really based on?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U215	Thank you. As far as the special kindergarten pedagogies are concerned, this is an issue that did not come up separately in the final phase of the real budget, when wage agreements were reached. But it is probably a subject that must also be addressed here in the Riigikogu. However, I am referring again to the fact that the revenue of local governments will increase significantly next year. The financial position of the municipalities is actually very good and it gives the opportunity in any case... You shake your head, but it's a fact, the numbers confirm it, and it's an opportunity to set priorities within the local government in any case. The municipal road money you asked about has been quite fresh with the additional budget last year. And, unfortunately, that money didn't find very quick to use. It is likely that it was not ready to use the funds allocated for investment in local roads so quickly. This means that the municipalities still have a pretty large balance of funds allocated with an additional budget that could be used. So this was one part, and I think the main part of this estimate is why this money was not allocated in full as much as the municipalities asked. At that time, funds were allocated to roads with an additional budget, with a desire to support the economy at the brink of the crisis. To date, we see that the economy has received so much support in the field of construction that prices are rising very quickly. We hope that local governments will now have the opportunity to make the most of this money and invest in local roads.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U216	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U217	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. My question is more about what is not in this budget, and it concerns the price of electricity. I think the government has decided, as I understand it, that we will reduce network charges, at least temporarily, and that there will be no way of reducing or eliminating renewable energy charges and reducing VAT. I'm asking you, is this decision rock-proof, and will this be the case during the proceedings? One of the parties to the coalition, the Centre Party has said through the mouth of several Riigikogu ambassadors and presidents that they support a reduction in VAT, and Euro Ambassador Kadri Simson has also suggested it and proposed it as an opportunity. Does the government continue to believe that it does not support a proposal for VAT or renewable energy charges in the procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U218	Thank you. The temporary distinction between value added tax (VAT) and VAT (VAT) reductions was still under discussion. There was actually more than one reason why it was left out. The first reason was certainly that it would be quite time-consuming to reach it, because it requires a legislative amendment that does not happen in weeks, but takes time. The second reason is that you have also referred to the need to support not only domestic consumers but also businesses, and we have been looking for a solution that will help to alleviate them too. A reduction in VAT would not bring this to many because input VAT is known to be recovered. So these are the reasons why it is currently excluded. But since you asked about this package, I note that there are actually three parts of this package. The first part, and the most important, is investment with a long-term impact. This is really about investing in energy savings. In the coming years, hundreds of millions of euros will be invested in it, with over EUR 400 million being earmarked to make buildings more energy-efficient. This will also actually help with the price problem, with the big bills. Similarly, the development of renewable energy capacity is important. The fact is, in the end, the only thing that can affect the price is greater supply and lower demand. Therefore, making additional long-term investments to increase renewable energy capacity is absolutely unavoidable and very important. The second part of this package is to ease the rise in energy prices for households with lower incomes. There was also a reference in Question Time today to the fact that it is as if it is intended to be done by means of income support. It is not accurate in this sense that there is in fact a measure that not only affects 10,200 families, households who are recipients of income support, but it is estimated to affect about 72000 families in Estonia. The source of the cover is money from the sale of the CO2 quota. This is targeted money, which must be directed towards either green investment or improving the situation of people with lower incomes, to mitigating this situation, which is precisely linked to the social problems arising from energy prices. Its maximum volume is EUR 37 million. The period during which this relief can be provided under current plans is from September of this year to May of the following year. So this is a retroactive measure. And this compensation is not only intended to temporarily mitigate the rise in electricity prices, but is also likely to address the very sharp rise in the price of district heating and gas. The third part of this package is indeed concerned with the temporary partial compensation of network charges. In this respect, domestic and commercial consumers are treated equally and are covered by government reserves. The current plan concerns the compensation of 50% of the network service fee, between October and March next year, i.e. during the coldest and darkest months. The details must be in place within the next two weeks so that it can be implemented at the latest at the beginning of November.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U219	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U220	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. If areas receive additional funding, such as more tax revenues, there is no question of where this cover will come from. Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits and Eduard Odines had similar questions and they did not actually receive an answer. You have rightly pointed out that wage increases are often at least partly covered by the sector's budget. This is customary, and so is Kristian Jaani. Indeed, the Minister will do so, but this means that the cooperation project between the Rescue Board and the local government, "Fireplaces of Fire" will end, the goal of increasing the capacity of the rapid reactioners will not be met, and the 30 to 40 posts in the administration will be lost, no more police officers will be recruited, the property life card will be extended. Is the Minister's assessment, then, that there has been an earlier inefficient use of resources in the field, and these redeployments are reasonable, or is wage increases at the expense of our internal security?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U221	Thank you. Internal security will be on a better footing next year than this year. There will certainly be no real deterioration in the area of internal security in the sense that security and internal security are still very strong. These changes listed by you are things that have been considered reasonable and necessary by the head of the field itself. I will certainly emphasise what might have been lost in your question, although you said this, that when we talk about losing posts, these are vacant posts that will be lost. There are currently a number of posts that are foreseen in this structure, but they have not been completed for a long time. And I think it actually makes sense to review from time to time how many places there are and to make corrections in every area. In my opinion, the Minister for the Interior has taken very good steps to review his area and, in those places where it is possible and sensible to redefine priorities, he has taken steps to do so. Looking further ahead, the Minister of the Interior, together with the Minister of Defence, is preparing a plan for connecting the fleets of the two sectors. It is also an idea that has been bounced back and forth for a very long time and which has so far been stuck somewhere. Now two ministers are nice and very hard to consider all the pros and cons and to do the preparatory work. I think it will bring a pretty good and sensible effect in both areas in the future. In any case, the Minister for the Interior must be acknowledged that he has taken this matter seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U222	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U223	Good manager! Minister, first of all, I want to give you a little credit. Many thoughts and wishes of the Fatherland are included in next year's budget. But I have a serious problem of my own. The previous coalition set the goal of building 2 + 2 roads to Tallinn from Tartu, Narva and Pärnu in the next ten years. This will require an annual investment of nearly half a billion euros in road construction. If I look at next year's budget and the RES, I can see that in the next few years, the number will be so small that there will be nothing more to do with this money than design and repair roads. At this point in time, we can see that the economy is well on the rise and out of the crisis. How do you feel about looking again at the road construction money and finding more resources during this budget procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U224	Thank you. How did it go with $500 million from this year's budget for road construction? I guess it didn't go very well. But for that, that was a half-joke thing to say. It was simply a reference that half a billion euros should be allocated each year, and that is the answer. As far as the question of whether road investment should be reviewed in next year's budget and the need to channel more money into it, one thing that we certainly need to take into account now when planning investments is what the economy as a whole is in. In fact, the experts in the Board have very seriously put the emphasis on the fact that the government, the state, the general government as a whole, will not, for its part, boost the overheating of the economy. Rather, the investments to be made and planned must be considered very seriously, precisely in the view that everything that is planned and very necessary should be done. But we really must not boost price growth or economic overheating. This plan, which concerns the use of our own tax money, is immediately accompanied by the introduction of a very large amount of European money. It is precisely road construction and other road investment that will also become a significant addition to European money. So I think that the current plans are quite balanced with the need to perceive the limit that we would increase the price increase from when we cross. Well, that's what we've been trying to avoid.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U225	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U226	Minister of Finance! The second issue is cultural issues. You highlighted the importance of cultural thematics in your speech, said that everything that is invested in culture will also come back in economic terms. I would like to add a regional aspect to this, because culture and civil society often also help where the statesmen have not arrived. Like the Narva Free Lava. Unfortunately, the Minister of Culture is avoiding direct communication on this subject and there are no solutions, but you have the country's wallet. Why isn't money found in our big budget to support Narva Vaba Lava? That's the first question. And second: instead of an education of interest, we are talking about the support of the cultural pack, and you said that EUR 1 million has been earmarked for this. Can you tell me how much it does for a single child, or how much a particular child can consume culture for that money?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U227	Thank you. First of all, I have been assured that Narva Vaba Lava will receive support next year. I hope that's true, that's true. This is an initiative and a project, which I think is phenomenal, and this absolutely necessary work that has been done there has been done with a great deal of enthusiasm and, indeed, in the best sense, as a citizens' initiative. I'm a big fan of this whole operation, and I think it should go on anyway. Now, the whole concept of the cultural pack is, as far as I know, at the Ministry of Culture at the stage that all the details are now being developed and polished. There are different options that are considered. For example, one option is that schoolchildren, or schools, are supported with a fixed amount per year for each basic school student to avoid another well-complex and bureaucratic system of applying for grants that costs time and money. The funds would then move to municipal schools for students through the Local Government Support Fund, and a new measure would be created there. It is certainly important that the distinction should not be made according to the ownership of the schoolkeeper. Private and state schools, municipal schools must be treated equally. But this is one of the first ideas to be considered, and for a few months, while Parliament is running the budget, the Ministry of Culture will have time to prepare it, develop details. Therefore, I am not in a position to answer this question in more detail at the moment. If we have received a precise plan, precise description from the Ministry of Culture, then the Riigikogu committees must also be involved and information given. Right now, I have the knowledge that preparation is underway.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U228	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U229	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! My question comes from energy security, and I may use imaginary expressions to do so. "Greens die in the autumn, the greens die in the autumn" was sung by the band Velikije Luki. Probably in a few years, or in six years, we will also have the knowledge that these goals will remain unattainable, and we will find an alternative way. The peasant's wisdom says don't spit in the old well until the new one's ready. And I'm now quoting the 1972 movie Little Requiem for the harmonica: "All airmen spit in saliva cups. " Has the Government of the Republic foreseen financial resources for the purpose that, if we have already weakened our energy security, how can we return? We know that the world is changing, and from time to time maybe some of the paths chosen are right, but the direction is just wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U230	Thank you. Velikije Luki has other interesting songs, maybe not all of them are quoting right now. But if I was able to interpret your question correctly, in any case, the government is going to invest precisely in a green turn. I also consider this to be absolutely essential and essential for the competitiveness of the future, so that money is earmarked for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U231	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U232	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. It's impossible for me to understand, and I'm not even asking how you can say that a million dollars placed in the cultural budget is somehow more stable than the money of interest that you cut 4 million and give a finger at 1 million. There is exactly the same opportunity to turn it back politically as you have just turned back the payment of interest money. But I am saying that your budget is not only anti-childism, but also anti-cultural and anti-sportsism, even though, rhetorically, you have started to highlight culture in recent times. And in addition to what we have already talked about in terms of cutting the money for recreational activities, which will hit both culture, sport and children, you will also be cutting opportunities to fund projects that are prepared for the Olympic Games in the next four years - 2.7 million will be lost - as well as regional cultural projects financed through the Cultural Centre. They will also lose money, and next year it will be almost EUR 400000, but in total it will be over 3 million. What do you say to them?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U233	Thank you. We will discuss the amendment on gambling tax after we have dealt with a few drafts. In fact, more serious problems have arisen with the payment of gambling taxes. There were more serious problems with the programmes financed by the levy last year, because there was a situation where, as a result of the crisis, this tax simply received less and a number of applicants were concerned whether they had the opportunity to present their project at all. This has been one of the reasons why we fix the level of revenue from gambling tax in 2021. We want precisely to give greater certainty that there will be no falling down from it. But once again, the Minister of Culture is certainly the best able to illuminate the specific details concerning the budget for culture. The whole budget of the Ministry of Culture, if we compare the basic budgets for two years, will increase next year. The possibilities to prioritise within the budget and to channel money need to be increased rather than reduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U234	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U235	Thank you. I will continue at the end of the previous question. Indeed, the Minister of the Interior is doing a very good job and will find a cover, because he considers the increase in the pay of rescuers and police officers as a priority, because these people will otherwise not be employed there. But this money comes at the expense of something, and my question was whether there has been inefficient use of resources in the field if it is possible to save costs and raise wages there. But if there has been no inefficient use of resources, then it must be acknowledged that wage increases come at the expense of our internal security. There's really no third chance. Has the money been used inefficiently, or are we cutting back on internal security? In fact, there is also the question of teachers' pay. This spring example was very unsuccessful when teachers' salaries were raised at the expense of an education of interest. And since it is not clear at the moment where EUR 5 million will be found from the budget of the Ministry of Education and Research, I would like to have an answer on which this raise of EUR 5 million will come.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U236	Thank you. In all areas, previous planned expenditure and past expenditure patterns, previous policies, both in terms of content and form, need to be critically reviewed each year. I think this is what all politicians pay, the ministers pay, and, in fact, Parliament. That is why I say that I think the Minister for the Interior is one of those who has taken this task very seriously, who understands it very well. When we exchanged views on state reform with you in the last Question Time, this is actually one of the ideas and ideas that goes through state reform. It is inevitable that, if population processes are what they are, public expenditure must take this into account and be synchronised with these changes. It concerns, I repeat, all areas, not just the Ministry of the Interior. Otherwise, we will simply have a situation in which the private sector, within the limits of whose tax money we can make decisions, can make a budget, simply no longer be able to cover all the costs necessary to ensure that Estonia's long-term interests are well protected. In internal security, wage increases are essentially from two sources of funding: they come from government funding in the process of budgeting, as well as from the setting of additional priorities that the Minister has made. You have actually read them yourself on your previous question, and it must be said that all these are such changes, which will result in internal security getting better tone and shape, not the other way around.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U237	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U238	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! For many years, we have been working to ensure that international passenger shipping works well in Estonia so that cargo ships come under our flag. We have various programs that we have received over the years, both with and without you. Compared to next year's budget and this year's budget, I see that there are a few significant changes that concern the maritime sector in particular. And the fact that, in the case of port charges, you have these support measures or, let's say, the reduced rates went well, almost halfway back, I think 75% is. And what is certainly important is that the support measure for international travel will disappear completely. Why is that? Do you think it's not a priority anymore, or are there other reasons? In essence, the support measure for international travel will be zero next year. Maybe you could give me a heads-up?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U239	Thank you. In this area, the primary priority was to extend the amendment of the waterway charges, i.e. the extension of the lower rates. The choices must be made within the limits of what is possible, and such choices are made by the head of the field, the minister. I think that, given the delay in the crisis, it is important that the change in the charges for waterways was agreed in this way and that it will not recover in full in the next year, even if the effects of the crisis are likely to continue to be felt in this area. This was a proposal that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications considered important and he received support for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U240	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U241	Thank you, Minister. My major concern is the underfunding of agricultural science. But I would like to ask you this time about the salaries of specialists in ministries. How is the state budget planned: is the Ministry of Rural Affairs still at the lowest wages and, if so, why? Are people involved in food production less important than specialists from other ministries? I'd leave out the paychecks from the Ministry of the Environment. I don't think they're gonna be able to do less work than other professionals.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U242	Thank you. The following year, additional money for the growth of the payroll was received by educators, cultural workers, internal security and social affairs, but we really wanted to help the two agencies separately. One of them was the Environmental Board and the other is the Agricultural and Food Board. And the third was Statistics, so three agencies. And that's because they've been in the worst shape for a very long time. In spring, the three agencies that received money for the growth of the payroll were not on the list, and now 5% of the payroll has been budgeted for the growth of the payroll. And just as in all other areas, it is up to the leaders themselves to decide exactly how this money is distributed within the field. In certain positions, growth may be higher than 5%, while in certain positions it may be lower. However, an increase of 5% in addition to the payroll fund is foreseen next year in this sector too, because indeed, as you have indicated, this has been an area that has fallen very far behind in comparison with others.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U243	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U244	Dear Minister, I have asked here about the budgets of previous years why Eesti Energia receives money for investment transactions. It used to build an oil factory. But now I see that 114 million euros have been allocated to Eesti Energia this time. It is not an oil plant that is mentioned here, but for other investments. I was beginning to think, "Whoa-whoa, now this great share mission of Enefiti is going on, and the IPO ended successfully." That's where Eesti Energia gets the money. Or am I wrong? From there should be money for investments in Eesti Energia, why do we still need 114 million euros from the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U245	Thank you. This has actually been decided on by earlier national budgetary strategies, and reversing it would be a pretty unexpected consequence for the company. So I think it's necessary anyway. Similarly, it has been necessary that we in the budget, as you pointed out very precisely, have defined that this money is intended for investments that are not linked to an oil plant. And so it is. Investment needs of Eesti Energia, investment plans are certainly very large, especially in the field of renewable energy, but also in relation to networks. This is why this financing transaction is necessary and why this money will be included in the budget for next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U246	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U247	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I have another question concerning the social sector, namely long-term care. Long-term care is a problem. All the previous studies, I can say, from 2008, 2009, 2011, 2014, World Bank survey 2015, 2016 onwards, show this. The Development Monitoring Centre has made a very comprehensive report which shows that the care burden of its own is increasing. It can be said that local governments have been allocated larger amounts so that they can support their own, but it is very different from Estonia. I did not find from the budget that this issue will be dealt with next year. It is true that today I heard about Jüri Rata that the topic of the next Riigikogu elections will be long-term care. But as early as January, the fees for the nursing home rise, and this increase is 100 euros or more. Pensions will rise by 20 euros or a little more in April. In any case, this does not cover the costs and the burden on individuals increases.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U248	Thank you. This is not the subject of the next elections, but, in my opinion, it has been a cross-cutting issue in a number of recent elections. This problem, I think, has probably all the political forces, all the political forces that are being taken seriously, and the Minister for Social Protection is preparing a comprehensive, forward-looking approach on this issue. Certainly, part of this debate is also linked to a wider tax debate on how to finance the growing needs of the social sector in a way that does not unduly restrict and harass our entire economic system, our business system, the business environment. So this debate can't really wait until March 2023 and it will definitely start earlier. The Minister for Social Protection has also said that when we talk about wages, the salaries of people working in the care sector should be treated in the same way as those of nursing. The workload, the nature of the work is very similar. That is not the case now when we talk about pay. And we have talked today about a number of areas where obtaining a labour force is a problem in the education system, in the same way as internal security, but in fact the situation in social welfare is not different from that in the care sector. So, yes, my opinion is that it certainly cannot wait until 2023, and the Minister for Social Protection has taken on the task of coming to the government with both the concept of funding and the concept of content. I am sure that this debate will also reach Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U249	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U250	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! It's symbolic somehow that the last question has been registered at the moment. I'd still like to ask you again about the sea. This topic, I think, is important to Estonia as a maritime state. It seemed to me that when you answered me, you were a little embarrassed, and I began to examine two questions quickly. You mentioned that the Minister's priority was that the waterway charge would rise next year. I looked at the memorandums that have come to the government, and I can assure you that there are two important proposals from MKM: that the fee for water be kept at the same level as it is this year, that is, 50% reduced, and the second that international travel traffic is supported. These are the memoranda that have come to the Government of the Republic. I have a very specific question for you. What's that behind? Did the Minister step back and retreat from them, or did you find that there were other priorities? You have these memoranda specifically on the table, these proposals have come specifically from MKM. Would you be so kind as to give me an answer?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U251	Thank you. Good questioner! There's no embarrassment. Memoranda, the proposals that will be presented during the budget negotiations, even during the start of the negotiations, are always the maximum of their content. And, as you know very well as a former Minister of Finance, the budget must be put together in the light of the limits that the budget as a whole has and which each area has. And so is the Ministry of Economic Affairs. There are always desires and suggestions, ideas more than finally opportunities. Which priorities fit within these contexts, in the end this choice will still be largely made and presented to the government by the head of the field, the minister of the field. I am probably not wrong when I say that it was certainly important for the Minister for Economic Affairs that the recovery of water charges at an earlier level should not happen as early as next year. For him, it was important that this change could be made in order for the prolongation to take place. But the Minister for Economic Affairs must also take into account the limits of the budget being made. There's been a need to fit in, and I think he's done it well.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U252	Good minister... Still, Aivar Chef gets another chance to ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U253	Good manager! Good minister! I want to thank you again for the fact that several thoughts and drafts of the Fatherland are included in the budget. But I still have a problem. At the moment, we have already been through the drafts from the Committee on Monetary Affairs and are coming to the hall. An exemption from the average pension income tax and an exceptional pension increase are planned, but it is due to be due in 2023. We know that, thanks to the voluntaryisation of the second pension pillar, these funds are available in the budget. Perhaps you will say in a few words why it is considered that they are not in the budget for next year? This pension increase would have taken place from 1 April next year, as usual, as well as an exemption from average pension income tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U254	If this change had been prepared earlier, it would have been possible to do so from 1 January next year. Unfortunately, the decision and agreement to exempt pensions from the average pension in Estonia and to make an additional extraordinary pension increase were made by the current government, which took office at the beginning of this year. And you may also know that our current income tax system would require a change that would free pensioners from this very large mess of levels and would allow pensioners to benefit from a fixed average pension exemption, a technically beautiful amount of restructuring work. No one wants to risk the change coming into force sooner than the technical readiness exists. And this will be ready by the beginning of 2023. Then in Estonia, the average pension becomes tax-free throughout and this amount will be firmly available in the budget for each year. In other words, the level of income tax-free rates for people reaching retirement age next year will be set by the draft budget for each year. To be honest, I would very much like this amendment to enter into force already, because there are also a great many pensioners this year who pay income tax on their pensions. I would have been in favour with two hands if the previous government coalition had made this change. If I remember correctly, as a Member of Parliament, I asked the customs Minister for Finance a number of questions on this subject, and he supported this change in his words, but it will indeed be done by this government on 1 January 2023. I am quite sure that your party could also support this change.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U255	Mr. Chef, do you have a procedural problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U256	I just wish the Minister of Finance would make it clear that...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U257	It's not procedural.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U258	It's-it's-it's-it's on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U259	No, it's not. Mr. Chef, the procedural question...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U260	In fact, the Minister of Social Affairs Kiik has two years...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U261	Mr. Chef, I'm talking right now!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U262	...prepared it. Unfortunately, he hasn't made it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U263	Aivar Chef, this is not a procedural question. The procedural question is about the procedure for conducting the sitting. If you have a wish to clarify something else, the Minister of Finance will close the appearance immediately, you can go back there and specify each other. It's not a procedural problem. Well, now we've all exhausted our questions-answers. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U264	That's too bad! I can't answer that non-procedural question, can I?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U265	I can't.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U266	That's too bad. But thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U267	Now, here's the story of the need to invite the chairman of the Monetary Affairs Committee, Erki Savisaar. But just a moment, let the Minister of Finance leave... Now, the remote control is now free and the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs can come and speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U268	Thank you, Mr President. Good Riigikogu! The Finance Committee discussed the draft State Budget Act 2022 in four sessions. They took place on 4th, 5th, 11th and 12th October. As representative of the initiators, the bill was presented by the Minister of Finance, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, as well as by all other ministers, at one or the other of the four meetings where they gave a more detailed overview of the budget for their area of government and answered the questions asked by the members of the Commission. On 27 September, Raul Eamets, Chair of the Fiscal Council, attended our meeting and presented the Board's opinion on the economic forecast, which is the basis for the budget. The Minister gave a very good overview of the contents of the budget; I would not stop at it. At the end of these discussions, the Commission reached consensual decisions that the first reading of draft 464 could be completed today and that the deadline for amendments would be 10 working days, i.e. 3 November at 12 noon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U269	Thank you. There's a question for you. Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U270	Mr President of the Commission. My question concerns food security in the light of rising energy prices and a poor market economy. The Ministry of Rural Affairs has proposed to allocate 15 million to crisis aid, transitional support, famous top-up for next year, but the state budget has a clear zero over them. In the previous years, it was a mistake when Martin Helme was Minister of Finance. They forgot about it. Is this a mistake this year? Is it forgotten, or is it a political position that the top-ups will not be planned for next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U271	Thank you. I think that would certainly have been better able to respond to this by the Minister of Finance. But really, that statement is correct. The budget is zero on this line, and we did not discuss this issue in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U272	The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. I recall that only the representatives of the political groups can speak. Kersti Sarapuu has asked for the floor first on behalf of the central fraction. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U273	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U274	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U275	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good guys in the hall. Good guys watching the broadcasts. The topics of the above-mentioned speakers were thoroughly [prepared] and gave an overview of the draft state budget presented for the first reading. For my part, I would like to stress that the state budget for 2022 is primarily the face of an Estonian person. In the negotiations, the Centre Party has always stood for us to be able to offer security to the people of Estonia under the conditions of the world-wide COVID-19 pandemic. One of the priorities of the Centre Party Group is to provide our people with quality medical care close to home. By 2023, 56 new primary health centres will be completed across Estonia, supported by European Union funding. Modern health centres help to reduce the fragmentation of services and bring quality health care closer to people. The establishment of health centres will lead to a major change in family medicine, help to strengthen teams of family doctors, provide a wider range of services and diagnostic opportunities for people. By contributing to the first level, we bring health services closer to people. We can intervene earlier to prevent the disease from getting worse, to provide timely treatment for chronically ill people, to care for people throughout their lives. The current crisis caused by COVID-19 disease has clearly shown how important it is for all people to have access to the necessary help as close to home as possible. It is a pleasure to note that the European Commission has given its approval to Estonia's recovery plan, including the financing of the construction of Tallinn Hospital. In cooperation with the state and Tallinn, it is planned to establish a new modern medical campus in Lasnamäe by 2027 instead of the existing central hospital in East and West Tallinn. It will be the pearl of the Baltic States. Under the conditions of the COVID-19 pandemic, we considered it reasonable to continue with the early reimbursement of the sick days currently in force in 2022. According to this, the first day of illness is the employee's own day, the employer pays sickness benefits for the second to fifth day, and the liability of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund for the payment of sickness benefits arises from the sixth day of sickness. Under similar conditions, close contacts between infected persons will be compensated on the sick leave. To conclude on the health issue, I would also like to point out that, from 2022 onwards, a higher rate of 85 euros of dental benefits will also be paid to the registered unemployed and beneficiaries of income support, which are estimated to be 55000. At this point, I repeat that dental care is free of charge for people under 19 years of age and adult health insurance can use 40 euros per year for dental care. In addition to the situation of COVID-19, the prices of the dramatically increased energy carriers in our daily lives are affected. Under the leadership of the Centre Party, the government decided not to increase excise duty and to take measures to curb the increase in excise duty. Thus, we support Estonian families, households and the business sector. Lower rates of excise duty help to keep prices lower, thereby curbing the growth in the consumer price index and the cost of living. This concerns electricity, diesel, special purpose diesel, natural gas, LPG used as heating fuel. Most of these prices affect the price of all services and goods. Obviously, no one doubts that the Centre Party has always stood the strongest for the well - being of the elderly. It is a pleasure to note that in the next two years we will be taking several steps in this area. The average old-age pension is currently 552 euros. On 1 April 2022, it will increase to EUR 591 as a result of the indexation. On 1 January 2023, the pension will rise exceptionally to EUR 20 and, in addition, the average pension will not have to pay income tax, as our Minister of Finance said earlier. If we add an indexation of EUR 43 on April 1, 2023, the average pension is projected to rise to EUR 654. And that's not all. Next year, the support of a single-living pensioner will also rise from EUR 115 to EUR 200. In short, increasing the income of the elderly remains our priority. In the coming year, the wages of rescuers, policemen and rescue officers will increase. The minimum wage for rescuers will rise by almost 12%, and the minimum wage for police officers working on the front line, the emergency centre, will rise by 5%. Internal security front line personnel shall be valued. Given the nature of the work and their wages compared to today's average, this is far from sufficient. Positive messages can also be delivered in the field of culture. The national minimum wage for cultural workers will increase by 7.5%, i.e. to EUR 1400. Some of the additional money will be allocated to workers whose remuneration is already above the minimum. Support for film production from the state budget will increase by EUR 2 million. In the previous base, EUR 5 million has already been earmarked for this purpose. The new initiative is a cultural pack that promotes the habit of going to cultural events at a very young age and harmonises differences in the regional accessibility of culture. I assure you that the Minister of Culture, Anneli Ott, is doing his job with a great deal of commitment, and at the budget talks he stood up strongly for culture. Therefore, yesterday's politically biased turn of the Estonian Association of Performance Institutions is incomprehensible. In the field of sport, the goal is that at least 70% of people in Estonia move for at least half an hour at least twice a week. The continuation of the football hall project will contribute, among other things, to the new football hall in Narva, Paide, Jõgeva and Viimsi. Balanced regional development is one area where a great deal needs to be contributed. Therefore, a new measure whereby the state guarantees housing loans in rural areas with a market failure and applies a lower contribution home loan service to families with children is welcome. The possibilities to buy housing outside larger urban areas have been hampered due to low real estate prices and low liquidity. That is why state support is particularly needed there. We also offer up to 80% state guarantees for young families and specialists to acquire housing through KredEx. There are many, many other measures that we implement with the help of the state budget. I think that the first reading of the draft should certainly be completed today and that the adoption of this state budget in the future should be fully supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U276	Thank you very much. Next please, Riina Sikkut!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U277	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, We have a budget of 13 billion, even more. This is a very large amount, EUR 10,000 per person, and this money can do a lot of good things, a lot of the right things. And let's face it, any government can divide that kind of money, take advantage of it. But what are the changes or the choices that the government has made or failed to make? I'd like to talk about a few specific things. One concerns salaries, the other concerns the reform of the state and, a little, the softening of the green turn. It's very nice that rescuers, policemen, teachers, social workers, cultural workers with higher education receive a raise. The aim is to raise the minimum wage for all these valuable posts to the average level in Estonia, but this year's situation is such that the rescuers receive 78% of the average wage. Their gross wage is just over 1000 euros, they get less than 1000 euros. These are the full-time young people who often work. Cultural workers pay 84% of the average, teachers 85%, policemen 87% of the average. At the same time, the economy is doing well, the average wage is growing rapidly, and the world is in such a situation that inflation has accelerated. Without wage increases, these wages will decrease very rapidly compared to the average wage. If we fail to keep up with the average wage, we will move away from the target each year. In order to reach the objective of achieving at least average wages for these valuable workers, a wage growth step of around EUR 200 higher monthly wages each of the next three years is needed. Then we'd pretty much get to the goal. At present, depending on the position, about half of this step is being taken, while the other half is not being done. In fact, the whole step still needs to be taken. Given what is happening on the labour market, it is very difficult to provide quality services without it, to maintain internal security, to motivate teachers, to secure post-growth in these positions. We [must be able to] keep up with the average wage growth and actually move closer to that average. As far as the Minister's answer to my question is concerned, I would like to take a little poke at the opposite. The minister said that the private sector couldn't sustain us, cover the costs of paying higher salaries to teachers, rescuers, policemen. I think that, in a situation where we do not have teachers, rescuers and policemen, private sector activities are significantly hampered. There is no good operating environment, there are no good skilled workers. So it is also in the interests of the private sector that teachers are well-motivated and motivated to have post-growth so that rescuers and police can increase our security rather than raise their wages at the expense of their equipment and at the cost of reducing their jobs. The Minister mentioned that internal security would be better suited and in shape. Yeah, that would happen if there were currently inefficient resource use. What has taken place in the field of internal security in recent years has constantly come to find internal resources for wage increases...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U278	Do you need more time? Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U279	Both from discussions with the Minister in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and from reading the explanatory statement, I have come to see that the rise in wages comes at the expense of our internal security. Well, a little bit of the so-called percentage cuts. What the Minister of Education and the Minister of the Interior are doing is doing well because of the need to cut down. But to impose cuts on all areas is not a state reform. Reducing spending on recreational education, putting children in particular in rural areas at risk of having access to high-quality recreational education, is not a public reform. The practical attachment of Riigikogu's Working Papers on behalf of 16,000 euros is not a state reform. A significant reduction in the revenue of the Development Monitoring Centre is not a reform of the state, as there is a question of where the members of the Riigikogu receive the necessary high-quality input as a basis for decision-making. Indeed, in the case of a very large number of cuts, a round game takes place, costs are raised from one institution's budget to another body's budget, and the public sector ultimately bears these costs. This is not a state reform; it will not produce the result that is actually expected. I also mention the salaries of the staff of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. The imposition of a percentage cut on all constitutional institutions makes the exercise of the constitutional role very questionable. The question of how the Riigikogu can fulfil the role that the previous President has also spoken about is also raised when we cut employees' salaries in this house. If [on a daily basis] there is a resolution of the health crisis and the government still imposes restrictions on the general arrangements, that is not right. These discussions should be held at the level of the Riigikogu. This debate is not taking place now; we are reading about restrictions in the press. In order for the Riigikogu to play a greater role, our work to be of higher quality, motivated and well paid officials must also support. And now for the green turn. I am very sorry to see that the budget, this most important instrument of the government, does not reflect the objective of the green turn of the coalition agreement. The impact of the current increase in energy prices on people must be softened, otherwise it will be unfairly put on the green turn. It is very difficult for Estonia itself to take steps to become carbon neutral in the interests of our living environment, nature, energy consumption, human well-being. To achieve this, the burden of change must not be borne by the weakest. This is possible, this softening is possible using budgetary resources, but these measures are currently not foreseen there. Fortunately, this is a first reading and I hope that, at third reading, I will not have to come to the remote control with the same message, but that the necessary changes have been made to the budget in terms of salaries, percentage cuts and greening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U280	Thank you very much. Mart Helme, please! Is there an extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U281	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, We'll talk about the extra time when the extra time comes. I'm gonna put my glasses on to look you in the eye. Of course, representatives of coalition parties sing praises to their budgets. Of course, representatives of opposition parties see weaknesses. I would not focus directly on this budget. We are dealing with this budget, which is a piece of work and, as we all know, it is not easy to chew through it. The deciphering of its lines, which means one sum to one, another or third domain, is worse than the puzzle of a crossword puzzle. We all understand this, and we will, of course, try to do this work before the second reading and, of course, also propose improvements. It is day-to-day clear that several heads have several heads, as they say, and none of the things are ideal. There are always ways to improve, supplement, change. A number of areas have been referred to here, which are clearly in the current situation [in difficulties]. The prices of energy carriers are rising, there is a relatively unstable financial situation in the world, and there is already perhaps the first manifestation of hyperinflation. I am not talking about Estonia, I am talking about the world as a whole, currency systems are volatile, there is very clear competition between large countries not only in world trade as it has been, but also in world finance, where there is competition between currency systems, the questioning of the dollar as a reserve currency. These are issues and such problems that, of course, the government and coalition of the Republic of Estonia cannot solve within Estonia or even within the European Union. These are so tectonic movements that it cannot be resolved within the framework of this budget in Estonia. However, these trends can be remembered and taken into account when making this budget, financing the Estonian economy and the social system. Here's a very simple point. I recently switched cars. And I'm not saying this because I want to brag about how tough I am to see, I switched cars, but I want to point out that without thinking about it, I ended up in the right moment. I did not think that there might be such supply problems that one of our group members has to wait a year now for the car that he wants to buy to reach Estonia. I didn't even know how to think about it, but right now, I'm telling you, I'm in the right moment and I did this shift on time. What am I saying to get back to the budget? What I mean by this is that it is no longer the time, it is not the moment and it is not the budget where we need to talk about the balance of reading all these Abracadabra formulas known to us for 25 or 30 years. They don't pay anymore. They don't pay anymore! At the moment, it must be thought that this budget would also be a buffer budget if the need arises. This means that we must have the capacity and the prior agreements and the knowledge that, if necessary, we can double, triple or whatever the inflation rate. I'm asking for more time. Now's the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U282	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U283	Why do you need it? You see, at my mature age, I've been through a series of monetary reforms, which basically have been the zeroing of bankrupt monetary systems in most cases. In 1961 a monetary reform took place in the Soviet Union, 10 rubles began to cost 1 rouble. That's the exchange rate. We all remember, I believe even the younger ones here remember their childhood coming to the crown. It was also preceded by inflation, and I remember very clearly that suddenly there was a lot of money in the early 1990s. Suddenly there was a lot of money, and suddenly there was nothing to do with it. We can easily reach this moment, where suddenly there is a lot of money, because it is so much printed in the world, and suddenly everyone offers us this money: all the banks, all the financial institutions. And we have nothing to do with this money because it will no longer be possible to buy services or goods, nothing that would actually offer relief to the Estonian economy, the Estonian state, the Estonian national defence, the Estonian social sphere. That is why it is now necessary to make sure that we have the money as long as we have the money, that the money can be used. I understand that I am not talking about this budget at all by line. I haven't been able to actually read it very much, run a line-by-line analysis. I'm talking about the principle. I am talking about the world being on the verge of very big, also financial change, and if we miss the response at the right moment, we will finally be in a loss. Then we can say at some point that the budget of the Republic of Estonia is no longer 13 to 14 billion, but 25 to 30 billion. Except that money doesn't cost anything. So that we do not get into such a situation, that we are not on a pile of money that we have nothing to do with, we need to anticipate. But I have a feeling that this budget does not include such a vision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U284	Thank you very much. Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U285	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first months of the government led by Kaja Kallas have gone through several real storms. As always in the case of the captain, no one can be blamed for the storm, but decisions must be made to help their crew and ship passengers with dry feet to their home port. The Prime Minister has called this budget a budget for good news. The Minister of Finance added today that Estonia's long-term interests are at the heart of the budget. Today's effective and quick debate shows that we have a clear shared part of the budget in the Riigikogu, but there is certainly also what we can do for the better. The state budget for 2022 reflects the decisions taken by the current government, as well as by the previous government, to manage the corona crisis. We have had a healthy policy of restrictions in Estonia, which has helped to keep the corona numbers under control even in a situation where the state is as open as possible. As a result of this and precisely targeted crisis measures, we have one of Europe's fastest growing economies. The Estonian economy is now 4.7% larger than in the second quarter of 2019. That's 2.8% for annual growth. At the same time, we must realise that this is a solid growth, which will enable us to provide some good news, but the crisis in the meantime has left its mark. Therefore, it is particularly welcome that the wage increase will be achieved by medical, police and teachers working at the forefront of the crisis, as well as by other civil servants. When the previous government's budget strategy for the country had frozen wages, we decided to invest in people. The average wage of teachers rises by 7.3%, savers by 12%, care workers by more than 10%, if you give just a few examples. In particular, ministers who have made wage increases a reality by saving from other activities should be commended. In the spring we had a longer debate on the level of defence costs. We can now say that we are making an unprecedented contribution to the state budget so that Estonia is better protected. Next year, defence costs will rise to 2.31% of GDP. Financially, this represents an increase from EUR 645 million to EUR 749.6 million, i.e. an increase of EUR 104 million. We know that our security situation is tense. My good colleague, General Ants Laaneots, has written about this, I would advise everyone to read it. It is therefore the government's decision to move forward quickly to fill our gaps, and I hope that the good old consensual spirit will return to our national defence debate. As the Minister of Finance said in his presentation, this is a forward-looking budget. All that relates to research, development and innovation is important. R &amp; D funding will increase by 29.5 million euros to around 300 million euros in order to maintain 1% of GDP. We invest in a green turn and a digital turn so that we are winners in these processes, not losers. Another far-reaching decision in the budget is funding to support the Estonian-language education agenda. By the Reform Party, we have repeatedly proposed in the Riigikogu that the state make a plan on how to switch to a single Estonian-language education. In 2021, we will finally see that this plan has indeed begun. Minister of Education Liina Kersna has promised to come to us soon with an action plan for education in Estonian, for which the state budget will be EUR 8 million next year. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U286	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U287	I have good news for our elderly. Next year, with the support of this budget, the average pension will rise to EUR 590 and EUR 652 in 2023, with the support of an extraordinary pension increase. Next year, the support of a single-living pensioner established by the Reform Party will also rise from EUR 115 to EUR 200. This will help support older people who cannot share their home expenses while living with someone and who are at greater risk of poverty according to studies. The Reform Party is firmly behind the plans for pension increases in these budget discussions. Listening to these good news may give the impression that the Reform Party is no longer involved in public finances. But that impression is completely wrong. After years of government, where public money was somehow more spent than came in, the government of Kaja Kallas has taken the reform of the state seriously. We continue to look in the budget for places where we can use public money more efficiently, for example by putting together institutions carrying out similar tasks. Although we continue to face a corona crisis, our budgetary position will improve by EUR 400 million. The revenue of the state budget will be 13.1 billion next year, while expenditure will be 13.6 billion euros. We are still the least indebted country in Europe for the future. The state budget is in good shape before us, in my opinion, but that does not mean that it cannot be improved yet. A substantive and constructive debate for us, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U288	Thank you very much. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U289	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I'll ask you eight minutes, just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U290	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U291	The ABB is also intended to make the state budget more understandable for decision-makers and readers who lack accounting knowledge and to link the country's strategic objectives with the resources available. As a result, the performance of the state's tasks should be more effective and efficient, the provision of public services of higher quality, lower government spending and staffing levels, and more flexible and less bureaucratic organisation of government work. If we read next year's state budget, unfortunately, we will not see all of this. And neither is it much more readable than last year. It was funny to listen to the explanations of one minister when he mentioned that some lines of income had not been included in the budget, but it became clear too late. Thanks to the rapid and decisive intervention of the previous coalition, we are talking about the additional budget for 2020 just as Estonia's economy has endured the crisis caused by the virus. It also supports economic growth and an increase in the well-being of the population through the voluntaryisation of the second pension pillar. We expected the increase in budgetary resources resulting from the voluntaryisation of the second pension pillar to result in an extraordinary increase in pensions and an exemption from the income tax on the average pension as early as next year. Unfortunately, we do not see this in next year's state budget; this is expected from 2023. When the minister answered that question, [he said] that it needed a good computer program and that everything needed to be fixed. I must tell all my good colleagues that, as early as 2019, when we discussed the 2020 budget, Minister Kiik promised that this programme would be dealt with immediately. A year later, it was exactly the same. Now that several years have passed, it turns out that it has still not been dealt with and is expected to be dealt with next year. As early as 2017, when I was Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu, we introduced the support of a pensioner living alone under the leadership of the Fatherland. I would like to thank today's coalition for supporting and raising this necessary support to EUR 200 for the initiatives of the Fatherland. If you look at investments, one important area of the road is left in the orphan's section. We know that if we want to build 2 + 2 roads to Tallinn from Tartu, Pärnu and Narva in the next ten years, we should invest nearly half a billion euros each year in building them. In the budget, these numbers are many times smaller. The same problem is with local roads, whose construction deficit has increased to EUR 3 billion. In the previous coalition, when with the additional budget for 2020, we have increased the road money to local governments twice as much in order to drastically reduce this deficit, then in next year's budget we will see a double reduction in the money going to local government roads. We've been talking about teachers' salaries for years. Teachers' pay is not a cost, but an investment in the future. Since this is an investment, it would not be a sin to borrow in order to ensure that teachers will grow in our schools for years to come. The same is the question of funding higher education institutions. Speaking of the economy, today it can be said that very correct decisions were made in spring 2020. As economic measures related to the spread of the Corona virus, the Act amending the laws relating to the State's additional budget for 2020 was adopted on 15 April 2020, which exempted from 1 April 2020 until 31 March next year all ships entering Estonian ports or raids from the payment of the waterway charge and from 1 April until the end of this year the waterway charges are 50%. This decision has had a positive impact on Estonia's competitiveness. Compared to 2019 and 2020, Estonia gained additional volumes of goods, thus additional revenue for the state. While freight volumes in our Baltic Sea region decreased by 7.9%, the Port of Tallinn increased its freight volume by 7%, or 1.4 million tonnes. PricewaterhouseCoopers has for many years analysed the economic impact of the Estonian freight corridor and, based on these studies, it is estimated that this increase in freight volume will have a positive impact on the state budget of about 16 million euros. It covers most of the fee exemption measure [of the cost]. It is important to consider that if such a decision had not been taken, Estonia would have lost significantly in the volume of freight transport and also in the revenue of the state as compared to what was planned. According to the company's forecasts, without this measure, a large part of the revenue from the planned waterway charges would have been lost and freight volumes would have been significantly reduced. As a result, the revenue from the state budget would have been more than EUR 35 million lower. But now they want to raise the water fee twice. Is there now a desire to discourage entrepreneurship and to give up government revenue? In the view of the Fatherland Party, in the light of the above, budget planning should be continued with a 50% rate for waterway charges from 1 January next year. As Chairman of the Monetary Commission, improvements were made to the state budget this year in order to keep the water fare low. It brought cash and cargo ships to our ports. Estonian passenger shipping is a well-known trademark in Estonia and a strong guarantor of the free movement of international travellers and goods. The passenger shipping support measure introduced by the Decree of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure of 24 September 2020 entitled "Conditions and arrangements for supporting international passenger shipping' also helped to maintain passenger shipping between neighbouring countries, even if the number of passengers was minimal and the organisation of journeys was loss-making for shipowners. This measure was able to maintain a large number of jobs and avoid a catastrophic situation for workers in the Estonian maritime economy. Given the current increase in the spread of the COVID-19 virus in Estonia and neighbouring countries, a serious question arises that has changed that the Government of the Republic has decided not to continue this aid measure. If we want Estonian passenger shipping to be sustainable in the future, we should also support passenger shipping in the coming years. In recent months, we have been faced with an increase in gas and electricity prices, which has led to many companies increasing input prices many times and to a multiplication of household costs. We do not see lines in the budget that show how today's government supports Estonian residents and entrepreneurs. The Fatherland Party has proposed a number of solutions: consumers will have to cancel renewable energy charges and the increase in excise duties on electricity, diesel and natural gas will have to be avoided. At the same time, it is important to thank the current coalition that you have started to support the draft law that you passed on to the Riigikogu in April and that the excise increases for next year will not take place. The CO2 trading system needs to be changed so as to prevent sharp price increases. Our proposal is also to contain inflation and to alleviate the burden on business and consumers by temporarily reducing VAT on gas, indoor heating and electricity from 20% to 9% to reduce high energy prices. These are compulsory costs for consumers, with no alternative. And, of course, we must thank the government that there is also a reduction in network charges today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U292	Thank you. That concludes the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 464 be completed. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 3 November at 12 noon.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U293	Let's move on to the agenda. The third item on the agenda is the first reading of the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Kristian Jaani, Minister of the Interior. Please, Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U294	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to stand before the honourable Riigikogu and introduce the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic on 7 June 2021, 408. The aim of the draft is to protect information that is important in the fight against crime and to make it more difficult for those who could use it for criminal purposes to access information. I'll start with the contents of the bill. We would like to supplement the Police and Border Guard Act with a provision that allows for a restriction of access to information reflecting the manner in which data are processed, technological solutions, security measures and security measures in the police database (the Information System POLIS), which is different from the general rule of the Public Information Act. Where the Public Information Act allows access restrictions to be set for a total period of 10 years, this distinction allows for a five-year extension of the access restriction to a maximum of 30 years from the time the access restriction is introduced. So, in summary, we are talking about the rules of procedure and the work manual that regulates how data is handled in the police database. Which way, what technology, etc. In short. So what will this bill solve? The current Public Information Act allows police database documents to be defined as [considered documents] for professional use for a total period of 10 years. This is too short a time to protect information on the way data are processed, technological solutions and security measures in the police database. Now, if we were to disclose these documents over ten years old, we would give everyone an idea of police technology, working methods, information flow and security measures in the database. A little of what is a police database POLIS, as it helps to understand why a separate access restriction is needed. POLIS is a database where data relating to law enforcement and criminal proceedings are processed in order to ensure public order and internal security. The POLIS subsystem is KAIRI, which is a tool for the criminal police. The information in question for internal use concerns the KAIR subsystem, which is separately documented and established in 2002 by the then Director-General's decree. Why has such a solution been chosen? When considering and assessing the different options, it became clear that the amendment of the law is essentially the only reasonable solution to resolve the situation. Paragraph 40 of the Public Information Act, which has already been cited, allows the document to be restricted for up to five years and, if necessary, extended for up to five years. Although the law does not explicitly specify the number of authorised extensions, the Data Protection Inspectorate and the Ministry of Justice consider that, according to the Public Information Act, a restriction on access can be imposed for up to 10 years. As a result, the Data Protection Inspectorate has already issued an appeal decision and a precept warning on the deadline for access restriction on 12 April 2016, recognising that in some cases the ten-year deadline may be too short. The decision expressed the view that, if necessary, a legislative amendment had to be initiated in order to resolve the situation, and that is why I am here today. Another option would be to recognise all this information as a state secret, and the information would be protected from evil eyes at the highest possible level. In practice, however, such a solution is not available and would only increase unnecessary secrecy. In particular, KAIRI uses the POLIS subsystem on a daily basis around 3500 staff members, including both the Police and Border Guard Board and the authorities cooperating with it. Less than a third of them have access to state secrets. It is not conceivable that such a number of staff would be subject to a procedure for the processing of state secrets. In addition, access to a document containing state secrets is already subject to significantly stricter requirements than documents which are subject to a restriction on access under the Public Information Act. Thus, there is no record of a document recognised as a state secret, for example, in the document registers, and the public would not even be aware of its existence. Nor would it be possible to supervise the Data Protection Inspectorate in the event of a declaration of state secrecy. We have also discussed the question of whether documents over 10 years of age need to be kept at all. However, the State Archives has assessed that the decrees of the Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board are archival and must be kept permanently. Now for the deadline. Why 30 years? The choice of the time limit was based on a similar procedure in the State Secrets and Secret External Information Act, a state secret in law enforcement that allows information to be classified for up to 50 years. The decree of the Government of the Republic pursuant to this Act specifies the content of the state secrets of law enforcement as well as the time limits which vary from 25 years to 50 years. In addition, the needs of the Police and Border Guard Board were taken into account when setting the deadline. Since the first longer-term decree dates back to 2002, the 20-year limit is clearly short and the 50-year limit is again too long, because, as stated above, it is not a state secret. I stress another important aspect. Every five years, it is necessary to assess whether the need for a restriction on access persists. If the Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board finds that this is no longer necessary, the document will become public. The holder of the information shall also be obliged to withdraw the access restriction if, during the period of validity of the access restriction, it appears that such information no longer requires protection. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that there is an additional right to apply the restriction of access to documents which have now expired, but only in respect of documents describing the functioning of the police database, in which the information contained has not lost its topicality and where the information is coming to public with far-reaching adverse consequences for law enforcement and criminal proceedings. At this point, I would also like to point out that the documents to be protected do not contain personal data and the draft does not restrict the right of natural persons to know about themselves. The amendment concerns only documents describing the functioning of the POLIS database. Thank you for listening. I'm waiting for your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U295	Thank you. There are questions. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U296	Thank you, Minister. The purpose of this law is to make it difficult for persons who could use it for criminal purposes to access information. I would like to know how many cases there have been where the criminals have received information. I also tried to get information about you through the police system, where there was an order on the move that you had not been released from work, but that your employment had been suspended. It didn't work out.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U297	Thank you for your question. My employment with the police is still over, but I volunteer to be an assistant police officer. That has nothing to do with it, because it is not a service relationship. So far, such documents have been very well protected and, indeed, there are no concrete examples at the moment where the criminal world would have received such documents. That is why I am also here at the moment with this proposal for an amendment to the law, because we may be in a position to make these documents public if the law on police and border guards does not make such a distinction that the rules of procedure concerning the police database can be set up for more than ten years for internal use.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U298	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U299	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I am one of the very few in the Riigikogu who has worked with this database, KAIRI, so I have an accurate overview of what he is. But your report left me absolutely confused what information is meant by it. KAIRI contains a lot of different information. Which information, in particular now, should this extension of the restriction take effect?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U300	Thank you for your question. Indeed, it is important to review that this amendment to the law does not concern information in the database. Perhaps this information, which you as a former police officer have entered in this information base, does not concern this amendment, but concerns the work manual, how data is entered, who can enter them, who can see what information, how registration is done, how this database is technologically structured. This change concerns only those parts, not information that is inside the database, but how the database is structured, as well as operating procedures, working instructions on how this information base is used. That is what this amendment is about.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U301	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U302	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Estonia has been talking for years about having too much secrecy, we have too many AK seals on all kinds of documents. We also see that, strangely enough, the ambassadors are not getting anything, but the journalists are getting it. The politicians won't get it, but the hackers get it, and the intel comes out of nowhere, and nobody's gonna be responsible for anything when the information gets out. I very much doubt that this extension of deadlines will actually make something better. In my opinion, this is another escalation of the secretive mania that is common in the Republic of Estonia, which should be avoided. When we talk about the rule of law and public administration and society's information, it is clearly counterproductive. Why did you come here with such a bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U303	Thank you for your question. As I did in my report, we did not want to use the alternative to declare this information a state secret, although there is a basis for this information to be a state secret. [We didn't want to do this] precisely because not all things have to be classified at the level of state secret, and therefore we have not gone this way, but want to declare information for internal use at the "step below." Both experts and the Data Protection Inspectorate have seen that there are documents where the ten-year deadline is not always the best option and this time could be longer. However, the Public Information Act today does not allow this deadline to be extended further. In my area of government, the Ministry of the Interior, I asked to audit this area at the beginning of the summer and to examine how the labelling of documents for internal use has been applied. The Internal Audit Office carried out this audit and the situation in the area of administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs was not so bad. Circa 3% of such documents were discovered for which the AK mark could not be considered to be relevant. However, more than 10% of the documents that could actually have been on the AK mark were discovered. This audit also attracted attention in the public, and I think that the other areas of government after that certainly appreciated whether the AK mark had been used in their area of administration on the basis of a rental certificate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U304	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U305	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, To my question why you are dragging this period so long to make it difficult to obtain information and use it for criminal purposes, you answered that this information has not come into the hands of criminals. But when you answered Kert Kingo's question, you said this could happen. What analysis is it based on the fact that at one point, although there are certain facts that this information will not be used for criminal purposes, maybe it will be used? What's the prognosis for this to happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U306	Thank you. Today's legal space allows for an extension of 5 + 5 of documents assigned for internal use, up to a total of 10 years. This time in this particular procedure is already over, perhaps already, there is a risk that these documents will become public in the document register, as required by the Public Information Act. At the moment, data protection has provided, so to speak, initial legal protection and has not been granted, but this possibility has already arisen, as the current legal space does not allow such documents to be extended for more than ten years [the deadline for classification]. That's a threat. With this amendment, with which I am standing before the honourable Riigikogu today, we want to create a distinction so that the deadline for such documents can be extended up to 30 years for five years.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U307	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U308	Thank you, Minister. I also have a question about the excessive use of the AK seal, but it relates to the state budget. We had you in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and there I had a question about the investment in building a house with the kapo. I'm saying I don't care about the details in the budget. I was dealing with the issue of transparency in the state budget, and I was wondering why this investment, which is a large amount, is not in the budget, or rather why it is hidden in some kind of programme. And then we went over it. Since I did not receive an exact answer, I sent a clarification question and received an answer stating the exact amount, but as of the day on which I asked the question, this information has been declared available only for professional use, but there is no professional secrecy here, because this amount of public procurement is known. The cost of this year's construction of the Kapo house is known, the amount allocated to the additional budget is known...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U309	Time, Aivar!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U310	There's no reason. Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U311	I will take the note with me, which seems to be a very correct point. I really saw that you got that answer with those sums. Indeed, it is also known how much it will be necessary to spend next year building a house of just over 24 million if I remember correctly to get the house ready. But I'll take the note with me, very well addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U312	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U313	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You have previously said here that this amendment will apply retroactively to those who use [the database] and enter the data. You also said that KAIR was established in 2002 and 2012 was the first ten years over. Isn't there a problem with the data? That's the first question. And the second question is that user rights are granted by order of the Director-General and the orders of the Director-General are personnel documents governed by the Public Information Act. At present, the regulations of the second law are placed under the Police Service Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U314	Thank you. It's all right. Today's Police and Border Guard Act contains a section, if I remember correctly, § 8, which talks about the POLIS database. So it is not a completely new provision to be included in the Police and Border Guard Act, but it is an addition to the already existing provision. The current Police and Border Guard Act talks about the police database POLIS. We will add one provision and bring out the rules of procedure of the Public Information Act concerning the police database, specifically this database, which you yourself know very well about the working procedures of KAIRI. So, actually, the police database POLIS has already been mentioned in today's PPVS. We will add an additional provision on how long this data can only be stored for internal use. As I said, neither the Ministry of Justice nor the Data Protection Inspectorate agreed to make such distinctions in the Public Information Act and proposed that it be resolved by a separate law, i.e. the PPVS.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U315	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U316	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! My question is why [has] been chosen such a principle that [access can be limited] for up to 30 years and with a five-year lightning. And the question of continuation comes to this end. Does this concern both the AK restriction and the state secret restriction, because both elements are actually mentioned in this discussion and the draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U317	Thank you. This has nothing to do with national secrecy. This concerns only the definition of internal use of information contained in the Public Information Act. And indeed, this principle of five years' evaluation of whether it is necessary also comes from the Public Information Act. Why is it five years? As I said, this is based on the legal space in force. Why 30 years? Here is the basis for how similar information is described today in the Protection of State Secrets and Classified External Information Act, and there is a limit on similar documents for 25 to 50 years. An analogy has been sought there, although we are not talking about state secrets in this particular document, but we were looking for an analogy as to how long a deadline might be. Experts have found that it could be up to 30 years, but not one at a time, but five years at a time. Therefore, every five years it is necessary to assess whether an extension of the deadline is worth it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U318	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U319	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, You mentioned earlier that you had an audit carried out and looked at how many documents there were with AK marks, but shouldn't be, and how many didn't, but needed it, and brought out 3% and 10%. Are you absolutely convinced that we are not going to take a step towards having a total mania of secrecy by imposing these new restrictions now? This is what we have over the public authorities as a whole. I was exposed to it at the Ministry of the Environment. Are you sure there's any need for further restrictions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U320	Thank you. It has indeed been a goal not to be more classified. The second option would be to achieve this objective through the State Secret and the Secret Foreign Information Act, which would make this information state secret and then would not have any indication anywhere. That is precisely what we did not want to do, but we wanted it to be a document that is visible to everyone, but which simply has a restriction on access a little longer than is provided for in the Public Information Act. Once again, this concerns a very specific and small part of the police database POLIS. It cannot be applied to all documents, but the law very specifically fixes one database and, more specifically, one sub-unit of it and only talks about its rules of procedure as to how this database is used. It cannot be applied in a broad-based way over the field.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U321	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U322	Thank you. I have such a question that KAIR, which is also a database, was established, if I know correctly, in 2002 and ten years were completed in 2012. Now it's been nine years since the data there lost their protection. Has there been any problem with that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U323	Thank you. Since 2002, the Public Information Act has been interpreted in such a way that the restriction on access has been extended all the time for five years and for more than ten years, so at some point the Data Protection Inspectorate pointed out that it is not right to interpret it. While the Data Protection Inspectorate understood that there really were documents that would require a restriction on access for more than ten years, it had to be proposed that this change be made to the PPVS instead. Once again, this law has so far been interpreted in such a way that the restriction on access has been extended for five years and for more than ten years.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U324	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. We can go to the co-report. The co-rapporteur is Urve Tiidus, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U325	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of the Interior! The draft law supplementing the Police and Border Guard Act was discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs last week, 11 October. The purpose and principles of the draft act were explained by the Minister of the Interior, Kristian Jaan, and the Legal Adviser of the Ministry's Legal Department, Kertu Nurmsalu. While the Minister's presentation is very easily summarised, although he has been presenting it for a long time, the police are known to have a POLIS database and, in turn, the KAIRI subsystem and the internal data in the collection are kept in accordance with the rules of the Public Information Act. These rules set a deadline of 5 + 5 years. Real needs, however, require an extension of the deadline for limiting access to data processing, technological solutions and security measures in police databases. We are talking about extending the deadline to 30 years. An example of this draft has been the analogous provisions of the State Secret and classified foreign information Act, which set out 30 years as a maximum period for which information could be for internal use only. [Recommended to extend] restrictions on access to information reflecting the way data are processed, technological solutions and security measures in the database. The Minister stressed to the members of the Commission that the draft did not concern the information contained in the databases, but the system of how the data was structured, how they were collected, who had access to them, etc. Legal Adviser Kertu Nurmsalu explained that the Public Service Act imposes a restriction on access to information intended for internal use for a period of five years and can be extended for another five years. However, he also noted that, in cooperation with the Data Protection Inspectorate, it had been assessed whether it would be possible to interpret the existing § 40 of the Public Service Act in a different way, since the law does not explicitly state the restriction that this period may not be extended more than once, but the Data Protection Inspectorate has maintained that the restriction on access can still only be imposed for 5 + 5 years. As the Minister of the Interior explained this in more detail here, I will not describe any more of the presentation to the Commission. The Members of the Commission also had questions. My colleague Karilaid was investigating how much information abuse is inside the house and outside the house, just as they asked here today. The Minister replied that it was not really a question of abuse of information, but that, as of today, KAIR has the opportunity to read the rules of operation of the subsystem in ten years' time, including for criminals. This may give you an idea, for example, of how an operational system is structured, who collects information, how it is collected and how it is recorded. It gives you a lot of tactical information. There were other questions in the Commission. Do today's security systems and development have sufficient human and financial resources? The Minister also explained here that the draft law has nothing to do with the cyber security of databases. This is about working procedures, for example, how an official enters data and who can access them. He noted that, as far as the general cyber security of databases is concerned, there could, of course, always be more financial resources. At the same time, it is very positive that the Police and Border Guard Board is channelling a little over EUR 4 million of additional money into information and communication technology, which can certainly make databases more secure. The Minister also acknowledged the importance of the way in which the correct use of information bases is monitored. The Minister also added to the members of the Commission that the development of the population register is still the highest priority. As there were no further questions, the chairman of the committee proposed that procedural decisions be taken on the draft. These were: proposing to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 20 October, proposing to close the first reading, proposing to set the deadline of 3 November for amendments and to appoint Urve Tiidus, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs as rapporteur. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U326	Thank you. Looks like there's no questions for the waitress. In that case, we can go to the negotiations. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U327	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm looking at this bill, and I have to say that it's another law-making glitch they're planning to do here, and things are totally messed up. This, however, somehow characterises the activities of the current government that regulations in the area of the administration of one law are being introduced, I do not know whether for convenience or whatever other purposes the regulation and administration of another law is being subject to total confusion in the legal world. I've been working on this KAIR myself every day. I know exactly what the data will be entered, what the structure is, how the data will be entered, what the restrictions on the access of workers, what rights are, and thanks to this, listening to the introduction of this bill, I say that I do not know if the Minister himself understood what he was saying, but I was absolutely not convinced by this talk about the justification and necessity of this law. When the Minister says that this draft is basically necessary in order to introduce amendments to introduce longer limitation periods, especially for the rules of procedure of officials working with KAIR, it is certainly not correct to amend it within the framework of the Police and Border Guard Act. Work manuals are personnel documents and these access documents are still regulated by the Personal Data Protection Act and come from these provisions and requirements. The Police and Border Guard Act regulates the way work is done. To claim that then it will not be possible for malicious people or criminals to have access and information about the procedures for entering data, this information does not, in fact, provide these malicious people with any necessary information that they can use to their advantage. Information alone that this or this police officer has access to category A, B or C, that this police officer may, for example, enter data with category B access or that an C official is only entitled to watch and that an A official can view as well as enter, this information will give nothing to anyone. You can't use it for your own good. That's why I don't understand this bill at all. This is a very bad bill, and we shouldn't be handling it here at all. The aim is, however, that the lawmaking in the Riigikogu is carried out correctly and that the principles of lawmaking must be respected, that if there is a dispute, all lawyers, lawyers and judges would easily be able to find all the provisions necessary for the resolution of a dispute. But now that some data protection restrictions are placed under a single law which are not in the law on police and border guards, it will certainly confuse this system. My recommendation is that the government should withdraw this law and continue to coordinate these codes of conduct and others in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U328	Thank you very much. If the Minister has a wish, he can also take part in the speech. No, I don't. In that case, we will have no further negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 408 be completed. The first reading is closed and I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 3 November at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U329	We can go to the fourth item on today's agenda. This is the first reading of the draft law amending the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure, Traffic Act and Tax Administration Act 457 initiated by the Government of the Republic. The waitress is Kristian Jaani, Minister of the Interior again. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U330	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Again, it is a pleasure to stand before the honourable Riigikogu to introduce the draft law amending the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure, the Traffic Act and the Tax Administration Act 457. The draft is intended to make three changes. Local authorities will be given the opportunity to install automatic traffic surveillance systems in their administrative territory and to receive part of the amount of the fines for infringements imposed on them in their own budget. Secondly, the amount to be used to calculate the fine for speeding in a written warning procedure or in a short procedure will be increased from EUR 3 per km exceeded to EUR 5 and the Tax and Customs Board will be given more efficient, less costly and [less] time-consuming possibilities to recover the penalties imposed in the short procedure. Now for more details on the changes. The first amendment is based on point 1.8.11. of the Mobility Safety Programme 2016 to 2025, namely its implementation programme for the years 2020 to 2023. I quote: "Legislation has been developed and enforced that encourages and motivates the LA to introduce more automated enforcement devices. " According to an internal security public opinion 2020 survey, respondents considered careless behaviour in traffic to be the biggest problem in their home country: speeding, outside driving, etc. In fact, 88% of respondents noted this. In 2016, 59% of all road accidents on the roads or streets of local governments occurred with human sufferers. On average, the number of fatalities in these traffic accidents accounted for 29% of all road fatalities. Until now, stationary automatic speed cameras have been installed by the Transport Department only on state roads and since 2019 the Police and Border Guard Board has used eight mobile automatic speed cameras. The proposed amendment creates the possibility for the local authority to participate in the performance of traffic surveillance tasks by installing automatic traffic surveillance equipment at a traffic risk site in its administrative territory. The local authority that installed the equipment, as mentioned above, receives 50% of the fines for the infringements found in its budget. Such a solution will provide an opportunity to better defend the security of our region. There is, among other things, an increase in community involvement, as local residents have the opportunity to raise problems and make proposals, and local authorities in turn have a real opportunity to realise them. Cooperation shall take place in a tripartite manner when such traffic surveillance systems are put in place. If the local government wants to do this, it will do so in cooperation with the PBGB. The Department of Transport is responsible for the maintenance of the database of the automated traffic surveillance system and the Police and Border Guard Board continues to be responsible for carrying out the infringement procedures identified. In order to participate in the local government and to confirm the location of the device to be installed, the local government must submit an application to the Police and Border Guard Board, which will also coordinate it with the Transport Board before the location is confirmed. Such a system will ensure that equipment can actually be installed in places that are relevant to the road safety perspective. This assessment can be made by the Police and Border Guard Board and the Transport Board as the authorities with the best data on accidents and infringements, for example, which will make it possible to assess the severity of the problem. It is planned to allocate 50% of the proceeds of fines to the local government, which can cover the costs of the acquisition and maintenance of the camera. I also hope that the rest of the money will be used to ensure road safety. Prevention, which has an impact on the cameras, is the best thing, and it would be very good if no one were to get a fine, and I would be extremely pleased if there was no revenue from it to the state budget. At the same time, however, there are offenders, some can also be fined, and once again, this money could be used in particular to increase traffic security. Certainly, some hearers have raised the question of how much of these traffic surveillance cameras are useful in the first place and whether it is even appropriate to install them. In Scandinavian countries, for example, these speed cams are called with only one single name, and they are lifesavers. Various studies have shown that the average speed and the number of people injured and killed in road accidents are decreasing in the vicinity of the cameras. I can give an example here, for example, of the road section of Tartu Road Ussisoo, where there has been no serious traffic accident with a human patient since the cameras were installed. Before that, there were, unfortunately, quite a few of them. The conditions and requirements for the participation of local government in the installation and operation of automatic traffic surveillance cameras are further regulated by the Government of the Republic Regulation after the adoption of the amendment. Now from the second amendment, which is also linked to road safety. This is to update the level of alert penalties and sanctions for speeding up. In the case of a road accident, the speed at which the vehicle is moving at the moment of the accident plays a crucial role. The consequences depend on this, including whether the accident leads to casualties or serious injuries. Every kilometre that drives faster than the limit speed can have a significant impact. For example, driving in a settlement at a speed of 50 kilometres per hour instead of 60 kilometres per hour may seem relatively small to the driver, but it may be a matter of life and death when a pedestrian encounter occurs. However, in 2021, for example, two thirds of the violations detected with mobile police cameras have occurred in settlements. The concern is that there will be no reduction in the number of infringements. Rather, practice shows that improvements in processes, such as the introduction of a short procedure, or additional tools such as mobile speed cameras introduced by the police, are more likely to catch up. Alert penalties for infringements detected by automatic traffic control devices and sanctions imposed by police officers when the speed limit is up to 20 kilometres per hour shall not be entered in the criminal record. They're warning fines. The infringement shall be accompanied only by the obligation to pay the fine. The question is whether the fine will be sufficiently effective for the infringer to protect him from further violations. In the example of 2020, I am thinking of natural persons, half of the infringements detected by automatic traffic surveillance were committed by drivers who had already received a warning fine for this infringement at least twice in the same year. There were 16800 persons and 4500 persons on two occasions, but in 2020 there were over half a thousand people who received five times the warning fine and over 300 people who received six or seven times the warning fine. The basic amount of the alert fine shall apply from 2009. At the same time, the minimum wage has increased more than twice, from 278 euros to 584 euros. The average annual growth rate has been €30.240. The average gross monthly wage has increased almost twice, from 784 euros to 1538 euros, and the social partners have agreed next year to increase the minimum wage to 654 euros and Eesti Pank's average wage forecast exceeds 1650 euros. I understand very well that fine-tuning alone does not improve the situation, and therefore there are a number of other measures, alternative measures to improve road safety. For example, an amendment to the Traffic Act entered into force in June this year, allowing speed crossings up to 20 kilometres per hour to use a 45-minute rest period as leverage. We will, of course, take steps without any amendments to the law. Although in the case of infringements detected by an automatic speed camera, the written warning procedure may be applied to infringements where the speed has been exceeded by up to 60 kilometres per hour, we have agreed with the police that in the future we will carry out a rapid or general procedure for infringements where the speed allowed has been exceeded by 50 kilometres per hour or more. Perhaps beyond that, we will no longer treat infringements detected during automatic speed monitoring as a warning procedure. The law provides such a flexible opportunity. But once again, it would, of course, be great if everyone were to travel properly and not a cent should come to profit using these speed cameras. My heart would be very pleased. At the same time, fines also need to be reviewed and updated from time to time and, as I said, there have indeed been current warning fines, three [EUR] for every km exceeded, unchanged for a very long time. The third amendment gives the Tax and Customs Board the opportunity to recover the fine imposed in the course of the short procedure without bailiffs. The Tax and Customs Board is already using the same practice in the case of fines already imposed by it, but no such possibility was provided for in the drafting of the regulation on short-term proceedings as regards penalties. The changes will allow both the state and the finers to switch to a less costly and time-consuming and more efficient method, i.e. tax payer's money will actually be saved. Thanks for listening and waiting for your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U331	Thank you. There are questions. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U332	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, On this draft, I consulted a lawyer with a good knowledge of the law of the state and he felt that the draft was unconstitutional. The point is that § 154 of the Constitution states that the local government has the right to decide on all matters of local life. A speed camera isn't a matter of local life. And if you are also talking about receiving fines, according to § 157, the local government has the right to impose and collect taxes and to impose charges. What is important in this regard is that local authorities do not have the constitutional right to exercise national supervision. There are other institutions for this. How do you comment on this lawyer's position?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U333	Hi! Good question, sir! Let's just say it's not a matter of national supervision. National supervision and procedure will continue to be carried out by the Police and Border Guard Board and the database will be held by the Transport Board, which will continue to be fully constitutional. The local government will have the opportunity to simply acquire a camera and everything. Since we are only talking about local roads, i.e. those that belong to the local government, I would argue that the road, including road safety, is a local government's concern, which could also be addressed by the local government itself. Once again, he will not process himself, he can simply acquire this camera in a dangerous place, coordinate it with the Police and Border Guard Board, and he will not make any warning fines himself. This is handled by the Police and Border Guard Board. Through this, as I said, the local government guarantees road safety on its roads. As I mentioned earlier, more than half of all serious road accidents, 59% are taking place on the roads owned by local authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U334	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U335	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! As regards the increase in these fines, I have heard such an argument that they will be raised because they have not been raised for a very long time and the current fines are too low. However, no penalty rate will be increased simply by this argument. I had the question on which basis this opinion was based that the higher fines discipline the speediers more. We know that there are very well-known and regular speediers in this country, who have not been disturbed by any of the fines so far. What is the basis for this opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U336	Thank you. Indeed, road safety and traffic surveillance are complex activities and, in this case, we are talking about warning fines. We are not talking about penalties that are recorded in the criminal record. Road safety is certainly a wider issue, but the size of penalties, including warning fines, certainly also plays a role. If we have not changed the fines since 2009, I think it would make sense to review them and to think about whether this amount of € 3 to € 3 will continue to be appropriate in today's society, setting aside the examples I mentioned earlier: how gross monthly wages have increased and what is forecast for next year. But once again, I do not think that only fines or warning fines are the ones that improve traffic. It is part of a complex measure, but it certainly affects at least some road users and sends a message. But I also stress this once again: these are warning fines. They don't go into criminal records.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U337	Timo Suslov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U338	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! I have this question that there has been a lot of talk about fixed camera in the bill, but when it comes to mobile cameras, for example, which the police also have, is there a possibility that local authorities will also have such a chance. They could acquire it in cooperation and it would not be available within a single municipality, but could be used in Harjumaa. Is there such a possibility in this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U339	Thank you. It's up to the local government to decide which device it's using. In the case of stationary cameras, it is also possible to acquire cameras that take both the approaching and the remote direction or only the approaching direction. In the case of a mobile camera, the local authority must take into account that in this case a specialist is also needed next to it. Perhaps if a stationary camera is what you put in place and there is no longer a need for a person to be sidelined, then in the case of a mobile, a hired person who puts it in place has passed the training of a competent meter, etc. Maybe in the end, it's a little more expensive because it wants human resources. But that's a chance. Of course, there is no obstacle to how many local authorities agree among themselves. It is simply a question of how in this case this process, which can be relatively complex, is the distribution of fine income, how this 50% in turn can be distributed between different local authorities. If there is an automatic system that can be done this way, it is welcome in any case.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U340	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U341	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Well, these arguments of yours are not convincing at all. 59% of accidents on municipal roads are perfectly natural, because the roads owned by local governments are considerably more than national roads, and this statistics show nothing. In fact, the main emphasis should be on the state putting under its shoulders to repair the roads of local governments, but only the money is dripping there. The new budget does not really have much to do with it either. So it seems to me that you're in the middle of breaking and entering the open gate, trying to give the municipalities more responsibilities. These recitals are below any calculation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U342	Thank you. This is not an obligation for a local government; it is only an option for a local government. If he wants to use it, he'll get the chance. Indeed, there are many local roads and statistics show that more than half of the accidents happen there. But I'm going to bring another stats aside to show what the impact of speed cameras has been on, for example, serious traffic accidents. When we look at the studies carried out in the world, in most countries where automatic speed cameras have been introduced, the number of accidents in the immediate vicinity of the cameras decreased by 14 to 25%. When we talk about the number of fatalities or victims of serious injuries, it decreased by 30 to 40%. Perhaps the impact of speed cameras on road safety is extremely significant. I really hope that some local authorities will take this opportunity to set up an automatic monitoring system on their roads.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U343	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U344	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I would still like a little clarity in the motives for raising the fine rates. The argument that there was a year [2009] when the current fines were imposed and that life has become more expensive cannot serve as a basis for an increase. There should still be an impact assessment, it should be considered whether an increase in the level of fines will lead to the expected impact. But right now, I understand from what you're saying that all you have is the assumption that if there are more severe fines, higher fines, there should be a better outcome. Is it now that such decisions are based solely on the cost of living or on the year in which certain rates have been set?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U345	Thank you. Absolutely not. Traffic surveillance is a whole. There was also the situation of our roads, the type of traffic education, the level of supervision and the level of penalties. They all have a certain share in making traffic safer. Indeed, when we are talking about the impact of traffic surveillance on road safety and within the impact of traffic surveillance, I appreciate what possible penalties may be, this percentage is 15 to 20%, in fact. The rest in order to get 100%, to get the ideal, means that there must be very good traffic education, home education and roads already have to be built in such a way that they are safe. In other words, if there is a traffic accident and, unfortunately, there is a traffic accident, the road is constructed in such a way that the consequences are rather mild. So once again, raising the warning fines alone does not, of course, affect, but I am talking about the whole view, where we are changing part of the whole view of traffic surveillance, and so the whole picture is getting better. Various studies have been carried out in the world that it has an impact, but again, as I said, 15 to 20%. But it's also an effect.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U346	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U347	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Now is the terrible moment where I fundamentally join the tonality of opposition issues. I also do not like this bill very much, and I do not like what is happening on the streets and on the roads with these speed cameras and especially mobile speed cameras. As an experienced driver, I see for myself that they are often placed not on road safety grounds, but on the basis of the possibility of raising money. The race to Viimsi has basically turned out to be like buying a ticket to get to Viimsi. On the seafield road, where the natural speed could be 70, because the road conditions are like this, there are several paths, but there is a mobile camera put in there, and then it's like taking a child's end-of-school picture that everyone keeps driving at the same speed and everyone gets caught in the photo. Also in this second recital, which you say is that the amount of money should be increased as the number of infringements increases, it may also be due to the fact that...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U348	Time, Valdo!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U349	... focuses more on raising money than on road safety.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U350	Question please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U351	Perhaps there is a need to reconsider, to pursue less money and more road safety.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U352	Thank you. My firm conviction has always been that cameras must not only be outside to collect the proceeds of fines, but that the camera must be outside to prevent accidents. Of course, if there is such a sense that it is not practical in some place, or if there is a sense that the aim is something else, then I would also really suggest that you ask the police and ask why this camera is precisely in such a place, because there may be very good arguments that may not be understood by the road user on the street. But, of course, there must in no way be a mere objective of collecting the proceeds of fines. No. Like I said, my heart would be happy if it came to zero cents. The aim of the cameras is to lower the average speed and, therefore, to ensure that no road accidents occur or, if they do, at very low speed and there are no human sufferers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U353	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U354	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! I, too, believe that, in the current situation, where we have entered a price line where we are just beginning to see record in the prices of all kinds of services and products, it certainly does not seem a good idea to increase the fine rate now. Having heard your answer to the fact that installing mobile traffic cameras in municipalities is a very good idea in the future, I am still very concerned. I absolutely agree with the previous speakers that this will tempt the municipalities to create a money machine and be placed in places that are completely insane. But the question is this: please tell me how many municipalities have, as far as you know, expressed their wish to start installing cameras. What number can we talk about after the law is passed, so how many more cameras do we have?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U355	Thank you. When we talk about warnings and sanctions, no one is obliged to pay them. This can be avoided by not exceeding speed. So this isn't something that every person should be planning into their home budget. Of course, it happens that people are speeding up, and in that case, you just have to pay the warning ticket. But I stress that this is not a punishment, it does not go into the criminal record either. I absolutely agree with you that there must not be such an opinion or perception or behaviour that the camera goes to a place where it would be easy to earn. That's not the purpose of the cameras. The local government cannot decide where to put the camera itself, but it makes a request to the Police and Border Guard Board and the Police and Border Guard Board, with its experts, to assess whether this place is a place for road safety where it is reasonable to put it or not. This cannot be decided by the local government alone, and the police in turn will coordinate it with the Transport Board. That last part of the question slipped my mind... [[There's an answer in the hall.]] In developing the draft, quite a number of partners were also interacted and involved, including the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities. The interest in this possibility was actually entirely there. I can't tell you how many such municipalities could come. At the moment, there are cameras like this in the city of Tallinn. They have been awarded to the Transport Board by contract, as they cannot be used by the local government today. So I think the city of Tallinn will definitely continue to keep these cameras up. They're at Reid Road and Kristiine Cross. At the intersection of Kristiine, they actually work. So I think the interest is likely to be in the larger municipalities, but, as Riigikogu member Timo Suslov said here, there may also be an option that several municipalities are working together in this view.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U356	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U357	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I might go on with the same idea that was started by a good co-worker, Rene Kokk: local authorities, their competence and competence. Do you know how many local authorities are now starting to develop competence in traffic surveillance? You're saying there's cooperation with the police, but we know that all local authorities are developing, which means that if one section of the road is closed or goes to repair and there's a portable camera, is it every time the police get there? Obviously, they'd like to develop this competence. It doesn't make sense for someone in charge to say yes, you can put it here. Can you tell me how many municipalities there are?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U358	At the moment, I do not know how many municipalities there are, but this amendment to the law does not even allow to train those people who would evaluate it themselves, but the draft says that only the Police and Border Guard Board can make this assessment. When we talk about mobile cameras, it is indeed why more people are needed for local governments. Someone's just gonna have to set up that camera on the side of the road. That is why this person is needed, but it is not a person who appreciates whether this camera is in the right place or not, but it is simply a person who can set it up, because the system itself is rather complicated and it is quite difficult to set up. So once again, local authorities cannot decide for themselves. It is always coordinated and evaluated by the Police and Border Guard Board. This is also the case with the law, and there is no possibility, or any implementing provision, that [this is so] until the moment when local authorities have the appropriate powers. No, it's not here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U359	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U360	Thank you. I don't mind the cameras, and I think maybe it's a good thing there's some kind of control, but I might have a proposal for the police to measure the speed of the cameras 50 meters before the camera and then the camera. When you drive to Tallinn in the morning, you have to look at every camera in front of you and see that if one of them is driving in front of the car, it will definitely slow down before the camera, but after the camera, it will sweep past you to slow down at the next camera. I have a question about what the tax is. Is this a local tax or what is it if half of it is received by the municipality? If this is a local tax, the law must be amended, because it has been determined which taxes may be imposed by the municipalities. If I'm reading the law, I just might not have read the law well, I don't think it's a fine. But what do you call this half of the money, the tax that comes to the municipalities?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U361	It's a warning ticket, it's not a tax. This is a warning fine, which is now going 100% directly to the state budget, to the state's revenue. It is simply an amendment to this law that 50% of the specific amount of warning fines, fixed by, for example, the automatic traffic control tool acquired by the local government, specifically in the case of infringements detected by this camera, will go to the local government. Speaking of sums, today very general over the field average is that one speed camera makes fixings of EUR 40000 per year. So by this example, it's like 20000, it's average, over the field, for every camera, it's going to the local government.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U362	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U363	Thank you. I'm not arguing that the speed camera disciplines, as you keep saying here. However, this does not give any reason to transfer the tasks and responsibilities of the PBGB, which is to ensure traffic management, to the municipalities. Why can't the police stick to their grids and deal with road safety? Why must these functions be transferred to municipalities? If you have just pointed out here that one camera brings the municipality around EUR 20,000 then, given that a separate person has to be hired, it is a zero game with national taxes, after all, the municipality will not win any of this. Why do you want to impose such obligations on the municipalities instead of the government doing this to ensure that the roads of the municipalities are maintained?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U364	Thank you. This is not an obligation for the municipality. Everyone stays with their own grids; the local government does not get the right to exercise traffic supervision. This right remains with the Police and Border Guard Board. The Police and Border Guard Board will deal with alert penalties both today and in the future, including fixed breaches of these cameras. These cameras may be acquired in the future by the local government, but the local government can only acquire the right. He can't exercise traffic supervision, but he gets the right to receive in his own budget 50% of the penalties for infringements fixed by his own camera.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U365	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U366	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In addition to what I said earlier, that this draft is fundamentally unconstitutional, it is in fact also extremely burdensome for local authorities. Okay, 40,000 is the camera's result when [the camera is] on the road to Tallinn Tartu. We split it up, we get 20,000 euros, right? There is no such intensity of traffic on the roads of local government. However, the concern is that, according to this draft, the task of the local government is to acquire and manage equipment, so we have to pay for the cost of this device, which is certainly not cheap, besides employing the person who will manage it, because the PBA only does the written warning procedure and the Transport Board manages the database, etc. How much do you expect this income on roads with less traffic?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U367	Thank you. This is not an obligation for the municipality. He doesn't have to buy them, and if he doesn't, he doesn't have to manage them. For example, fixed speed cameras belonging to the Transport Board are maintained by the company from which the service is purchased, passed through, cleaned their visors, etc. But once again, this is not an obligation for the local government. The state does not impose any additional obligations or burdens. This is an opportunity to contribute to road safety in your community. When we talk about what could be the average annual maintenance or management cost per camera, it is EUR 10,000 of the circuit.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U368	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U369	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! In general, questions are all more or less in one hole, and mine is also in that hole. If traffic cameras are set up, a very thorough analysis will be carried out, I know, has been done before. This analysis is based on the risks to put it in anyway, because the traffic camera is expensive. He's not like you going to the toy store and putting up some kind of thing. This means that there will be a serious financial burden on the municipality. As an old driver myself, I think about the local governments and territories where I've been driving a lot, but I don't know a lot of places where this camera would pay off to the local government. This means that the municipalities are actually seriously harmed by their acquisition. Is there any point in putting this damage on the municipalities, all the more so that the Police and Border Guard Board will determine where they will work?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U370	Thank you. The Police and Border Guard Board, as it were, determines yes. The municipality makes the application, the proposal and the PBA evaluates whether it is the right place. Maybe it's a dangerous place, put it here, or say no, it's not the right place, maybe consider it five kilometers towards Narva, for example. Once again: if the local government does not want it, it does not have to buy it, but if it wants to have more say, and, of course, if the local government has opportunities, including financial opportunities, it will do so. He must certainly not think about whether it is financially profitable or not. Earnings are when no man gets hurt or killed. That's a return, actually. We are not talking about whether it is financially profitable or not. So this local government mindset must only be based on whether this camera contributes to security on its roads. If it's too expensive, he won't make that decision, he'll talk to the police and the police will be there with their mobile camera. There are certainly opportunities like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U371	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U372	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, In fact, it is still such a sneaking task for municipalities. As mayor, I clearly know what I'm talking about. Let me just give you an example from a little bit of another field. We have excellent free public transport, and then the local governments are approached to set up the timetable tables, because the money simply does not go on. EUR 27000 and one additional county should then finance the country. In the future, it's probably gonna be that way with those traffic cams. I very much appreciate road safety. If local governments see that there is this danger somewhere, they'll just say put up the cameras, it's your chance, finance it! Am I wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U373	Yes, you are wrong, because no one can oblige the local government in any way, saying that you must put it up. There's no obligation. It doesn't work out from this bill either, so that someone can make an obligation, and personally, I am completely opposed to imposing an obligation. Security is, of course, also the responsibility of the local government within the limits of its competences, but no one can oblige you, for example, to put a camera in it or to hire a law enforcement officer, for example. This sense of need must come from within the community, from local governments in cooperation with their partners. There is no obligation, and there is no way that I would like this situation either. I agree with you that it can't be that someone will come and tell you to put it up, please. No.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U374	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U375	Good manager! Dear Minister, Do we have an analysis or a calculation anywhere? You insist all the time that the camera is safe. Personally, I think that cameras that are stationary are certainly not for safety reasons, but for dangerous moments. Everyone knows where the cameras are, the cars have GPS, which most of them still report. But I have a question. You answered one question earlier that one company was installing them. Is it really the case that one company installs, and is it possible to order these speed cameras from only one company?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U376	I haven't talked about the company or the installer. It is likely that the procurement will still have to be carried out and that the company will have to install it. I didn't even mention... [[A voice from the hall.]] Of the cameras, that's right. No, I didn't mention there's a company that installs them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U377	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U378	... Maintenance. Yeah, I did. I'm sorry! I was talking about the fact that right now, when we talk about the cameras that the State has in the hands of the Transport Department, the Transport Department is ordering maintenance from a company. Care means that people go to clean up, they get pushed out of the snow. I was talking about the possibility of ordering a service from a company that is in charge of maintenance. So by "care," I mean, once again, she wipes out the glasses, pushes off the snow, and so on. It's about booking a service. When I came to the first part of your question, I mentioned earlier that there have indeed been studies that show that traffic cameras have brought down the average speed and reduced road accidents with up to 40% serious consequences, so that they have an impact. These studies have been carried out a great deal around the world, and they certainly have an impact on road safety.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U379	Let's try it again. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U380	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, If we in this Chamber are to consider what this is about in the case of speed camera fines, whether it is a warning procedure or a local tax, then in fact, the citizen on the street knows that this is the subject. This is the subject of how money is collected in the treasury. And last time I'm sorry, sometimes even if I paid this toll, the bank offered a standing payment order, which I refused this time. But in fact, society has put it in place, which is what it is. My question comes about how the negotiations with the municipalities have gone. When you get together with representatives of local governments, I also met with representatives of the police, they actually say that priority number 1 in cooperation with local government is still how to motivate volunteers, policemen, etc. That's a big problem. How many municipalities have said that this issue of speed cameras actually affects them? What place is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U381	Thank you. I don't know how to get a specific bill, because I haven't asked you that. The Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities has also been a partner in the development of this draft, and the opinion was rather positive there. I think we'll find out when that really happens. Then we will find out which municipalities and how much they would like to take advantage of this opportunity. Once again, this is not an obligation. And I absolutely agree that you mentioned support for volunteers, whether they are voluntary sprayers, relief officers, sea rescuers or neighborhood surveillance sectors, I also think they are very important, and the municipality could certainly support them. By setting priorities, these are all important areas. In the end, we must consider together with our partners in the region, with the local constable, which is the most important place.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U382	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U383	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. Another point that haunts me is that KOKS has established the functions of the local government. Practically everything the municipality has to deal with is listed in the KOKS. This means that in order to entrust police or traffic restrictions tasks to [KOV], changes must also be made to KOKS. Have you thought about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U384	Yeah. The Local Government Organisation Act certainly also contains security issues. I don't know how to quote. But today's traffic law also provides an opportunity for local authorities to deal with certain traffic offences, such as parking orders. So participating in road safety is certainly not a new task for the local authority. The question is how this is done, at what level it is done, what the respective competences are and which specific paragraphs can be dealt with. But once again, this specific law is not about giving rights to traffic supervision, but it gives the right to acquire a traffic surveillance system, to install it in its path and to receive 50% of the warning fines [from revenue]. The local authority does not acquire any additional rights to exercise public supervision.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U385	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U386	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I understand that the country simply does not have enough money, otherwise the country could itself acquire these cameras for community security. You have repeatedly confirmed that the state guarantees security and that no government has yet requested this camera. But we are going to be here for an hour now, although no one wants to, and the state will guarantee everything. What have I misunderstood? Then maybe you'll help me keep up? If no one wants and needs it and the country has enough money, why should it be regulated in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U387	Thank you. At the beginning of my report, I mentioned that the initiative in this area is the result of the "Mobility Safety Programme 2016 to 2025," namely the implementation plan for 2020 to 2023 and its point 1.8.11: "The legislation has been developed and enforced, which encourages and motivates the LA to introduce more automatic traffic surveillance equipment. " Perhaps this incentive comes from our national road safety programme, one of its specific points in the implementation plan. This gives local authorities the opportunity to have a greater say. As I mentioned earlier, as one of the very important social partners, the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities has been positively disposed that such an opportunity will arise. How many municipalities there are, it's hard to say. Those cameras are in use in Tallinn, there are no more places, but the future will show. It is my expectation that there will certainly be municipalities that, in cooperation with the police and the Transport Department, will also implement this possibility. But once again: it is an opportunity, it is not an obligation. There can't be a situation where someone goes and says that now you have to put it out on your local path. This can't happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U388	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U389	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I also asked you this question in the Committee on Legal Affairs, but the answer was not what would actually have answered either side of the question. My question is why we have half the intervention rate in Finland.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U390	Thank you for your question. The intervention rates of the different countries are different and differently developed. Finns have one level of intervention under urban conditions, different rates of intervention on roads and motorways. Estonia has gone down the road [that has been agreed,] what our intervention rate is for the amount of the warning fine, and how the law provides for a percentage error, which is deducted from the fixed speed and which speed will be measured at all speed. Just different countries have approached in different ways. I do not rule out that Estonia's current practice may change at some time. After all, Estonia has also had this theme on the table to perhaps introduce a methodology for measuring average speed, which some countries also use, that there is not only one measurement based on a single location.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U391	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U392	Thank you. Honourable Minister! I have not really understood why there should not be a unified system. After all, the Department of Transport could also install these [traffic cameras] on local roads. The Transport Board has experience, competence and economies of scale through procurement. It would be much more rational that it would be the other way around. You have a comprehensive view of road safety and the most dangerous places in Estonia and, in cooperation with local authorities, you will install these devices in the right places. There's some kind of central insight and system. That would make much more sense. But I have a question about whether it was discussed that we also have private roads. If [camera] were to be installed on private roads, could the possibility be that half of the fine money would go to the owner of that road under the same conditions and half to the State?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U393	As far as I am concerned, this situation has not been discussed. If it is a dangerous place, you can call on the police, for example, to help, but, of course, in that case, the proceeds of the fine will come from the state's revenues.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U394	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions for you. I'd like Sulev Kannimäe to waitress for the Legal Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U395	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law 457 was discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs on Monday, 11 October. All members of the Commission took part. Invited were Minister of the Interior Kristian Jaani, advisor Riho Kangur, advisor to the Department of Law Enforcement and Criminal Policy Indrek Link and Kristi Käsper. The 457 bill is more specifically a draft law amending the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure, Traffic Management and Tax Administration Act. The draft law aims to give local authorities the right to install both fixed traffic cameras and mobile traffic cameras. At the same time, the draft law aims to change the size of the warnings and sanctions. At present, the fine for speeding is EUR 3 per kilometre [hours]. This is to be increased to EUR 5. Kristian Jaan's report was basically that the amount of the fine or penalty does not affect a person to behave better in traffic, but is only part of traffic supervision. Its share may be only 15 to 20%. Jaanus Karilaid asked what might be the price of an automatic traffic surveillance system. It was brought out to be about EUR 70000. There is a mobile traffic camera of the same magnitude, but a mobile traffic camera is accompanied by a human-power resource that puts it up and who can work with it. Heljo Pikhof was concerned that no one was measuring the speed of cyclists and the speed of cyclists in the city. It was said that this could also be measured by traffic cameras, but the identification of the person raises problems. Kristian Jaani agreed that the place of concern was entirely there and noted that in fact pedestrians, transport and pushers should be separated from each other in traffic. Then Marek Jürgenson asked if these traffic cameras could be used on bus lanes. It is, but at the same time, there is no single system under which or who could be in the traffic code. There is no such register. Kristian Jaani said technology allows it. There is currently one main camera in Tallinn at the intersection of Tulika, at the intersection of the taxi park, which looks at both the light and speed and measures in all directions. Tarmo Kruusimäe has already asked how these [fine rates] breakdowns have been made. In Finland, the fines are also based on the incomes of road users. At the same time, it was also asked whether it was fair to split the amount of the fine [between the State and the municipality], since the costs could be higher [on one side]. They asked why 75% should not go to the local government and 25% to the state. These costs were then mentioned, including the costs borne by the State, namely the costs of transmitting IT solutions and fines and all of this. Tarmo Kruusimäe pointed out that most of last year's fines, 64% of the fines were for speeding at one or two kilometres per hour. These amounts are relatively small. Mr Jürgenson proposed that procedural decisions be taken on the draft. It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 20 October. The decision was consensual. It was decided to propose the completion of the first reading. There was 8 in favour, Tarmo Kruusimäe opposed, and there were no abstentions. It was decided to propose a deadline of 3 November at 16 a.m. for the amendments. It was decided by consensus. Sulev Kannimäe, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, was also a consensual decision. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U396	Thank you very much. There are questions. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U397	Thank you. I thought I would further develop the question to the Minister. I read the law and now I'm asking you. Can you tell me if there is a private road and a contract with the local government for public use of the road and it is also a public road in the register, can it be considered by law to be a local government road and to install a traffic camera there and share the fine money between the local government and the state? Or can it not be treated in this way as a result of this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U398	If it could be handled in this way, I dare say that the private owner's way is not in a situation where speeding or the installation of a traffic camera would be a profitable business, as was said and believed here. That is certainly not the case. I dare say it works mainly on municipal roads in cities. If I'm also doing a local government where I've been busy for a long time, I don't see a place where speeding would be [so common], to be honest. There have been traffic accidents on the parish territory, but they've been on national roads. Especially [dangerous] is near the Tartu highway Uusna, where there have been two traffic accidents one day half an hour apart. I guess there's a lot of speed. On gravel roads, this speed... Yeah, well, if you put a speed limit on 30, maybe so, yeah. But it'll lead to that, so we can start making money with it. But that's not the solution. That is not the goal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U399	Are you done?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U400	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U401	Thank you. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U402	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! As you yourself said, the aim is not to make money, but to regulate traffic flows and to calm traffic. Did you look at this statistics in the Commission? Let's take a simple example: Via Baltica. There's a lot of cameras, there's more, but what's the statistics on accidents caused by the rush? What real effect does this have on human lives or accidents?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U403	We didn't talk about it, but as much as I read the explanatory statement, the number of fixed speed crossings of traffic cameras has been significantly higher than in previous years, for example, last year. Maybe it's also because two years ago, mobile cameras started to be used. In this regard, this figure has certainly risen as well. But there was no traffic accident statistics.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U404	Thank you. No further questions. Thank you very much. I open negotiations and ask the representative of the Isamaa Group of the Riigikogu to speak at Tarmo Kruusimäe. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U405	Thank you, good Chairman! Good coworkers! Well, this is the part where I should say I'm not the one who's gonna say it. But I am the one who says in this matter, for we know that a stone may be cast by a man who has no sin. I don't have any traffic sins because I don't even have a license. I quite sincerely hope that someday the president will acknowledge that I have not interfered in traffic, that thanks to me, dogs, cats, cyclists and everything, because I am not interfering in traffic. But I can actually monitor what's going on in the traffic side by side with the view of the public transport user. Well, of course I know that the first problem is always that fuel is very expensive, but I would remind you that Jüri Manor once said that as long as an Estonian person is willing to pay more for water than for fuel, Estonia's life will be fine. We buy half a liter of water with the euro, and it's really just shal-lal-laa! And then we're saying that again, two cents has gone down. Well, the city of Tallinn is pretty bad with this traffic management. In my opinion, the city commissioners should not have this free parking permit for at least two years when they start handling the increase in parking tickets. Then maybe they could feel it on their own, but, well, they can't. In that case, that's what happens. Or right now, these turbo circles, which are actually like brake circles. Turboring should be smooth so that the car coming from next door can go peacefully to the inner circle and not stop on the outer circle, but it's right-angled, which means that you only have the chance to go to the outer circle and then two lines stand. It's called a turboring. Just take the plank, pull it down. Well, then they lie down with the police. At some point, anyone can want it wherever he wants it to be. But at the same time, another promoter-developer puts on those that break down, and then from under [the car] all those parts that have their own names that the drivers know from the head. I don't know. But it's still a matter of traffic cams right now. Yeah, I like the cameras like [Aivar] Cook. We're not against the cameras, I don't think any of us are. But sometimes we don't know if these traffic cameras have any purpose. Why can't we take pictures of cars on the bus lane, for example? We have made so many proposals that, for example, if there are three passengers in the car, they could use the bus lane. I think this people from Viimsi probably know all these suggestions, but that's not gonna happen. If we look at this bill, the main problem is money, money again. Just as the idea of a parking ticket is to be a traffic management element, this bill doesn't concern serial-smokers now. As the statistics showed us in the spring, 64% actually had one kilometer over. Those who were 10 and 20 kilometers over and who were left on that camera were 11⁄2%, and we're going to adjust it. The answer is, of course, that this intervention rate is because Finland is so and so, and we could be in one cultural space and understand it unambiguously. But what's worse? In fact, it seems to be such a sneaky, sneaky muppet. That's right. The use of force must actually be a state monopoly. Isamaa does not support the sneaking of police tasks, starting with traffic cameras, for example. This is not in accordance with the principles of the Unitarian State laid down in the Constitution. It is still not clear what we are dealing with, whether it is a tax or a warning fine, the allocation of money to the local government. People are going to call it one way or the other. Looks like a little rushed. I was very, very optimistic when the calming came to a halt. We made sure we were getting a little more liberal, but right now we're screwing around. Consequently, the Fatherland proposes that we simply reject this draft. Second try. These calming stops were a good idea, but the next thought wasn't so good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U406	I would like to ask the representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Henn Põllea, for a speech chair in the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U407	Ladies and gentlemen, I can't really understand what the fly has bitten the government. If we look at what kind of interference between competences, tasks and rights takes place between different agencies, then it is more than strange. We can see how the tasks and responsibilities of the Health Board are placed on the police, how the duties of the Police and Border Guard Board are attempted to put on the Rescue Board, and now we can see how the police's traffic surveillance tasks are being put on the heads of local governments. Why can't every agency deal with what they're created for, what they're assigned to, and what they're created for? It's totally strange and it doesn't make any sense. If we look at the tasks of local authorities, which are clearly set out in the COKS, we will not see half of the traffic supervision or its organisation, the collection of fines. In private law, you can do anything that's not forbidden. Speaking of municipalities, municipalities can only do what is legally permissible for them. We read here from KOKS that the task of municipalities is to organise the provision of social services, social benefits and other social assistance in the municipality or city, the care of the elderly, cultural, sporting and youth work, residential and utilities, water supply and sanitation, well-being, waste management, spatial planning, public transport within the rural municipality or city, and the construction and maintenance of municipal or city roads, unless these tasks have been entrusted to anyone else by law. Period. There is also talk of libraries and schools, etc., but this clearly shows that the law that we have been brought here is in direct contradiction with the KOKS. This draft law does not state that it would recommend changing COKS. Consequently, this law is unlawful. If we look at the reasons that have been brought to our attention that 59% of road accidents take place on the roads of local governments, perhaps indeed, I do not dispute this, but if we look at the proportion of national roads and local authorities' roads, the roads of local governments are overwhelming. If we divide them by kilometres, it cannot be said that local authorities' roads are more dangerous and there are more road accidents. So this argument, too, doesn't mean a bad guy. We have much higher traffic penalties anyway than in most countries. The aim and task of the police should still be primarily to prevent road accidents and not to deal with punishment. Now the aim is to give this punishment function to the municipalities with such a strange clause that half of this money will be taken over by the municipality. But we heard here how much a traffic camera costs, how much maintenance costs every year, and how much can potentially one speed camera bring in. If we add up these sums and subtract them, we also consider that the municipality must employ a separate person who does this to pay state taxes on him as well, then this adds nothing more than simply obligations to the municipality. I don't care if they say they're volunteers. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U408	Yes, please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U409	So all these reasons are very soft. Indeed, if the police are designed to deal with traffic discipline in order to reduce road accidents, to call road traffic offenders into order, then let the police deal with it. We cannot create a police state where all the municipalities will also become police. What is the next step, then, which will be given to the municipalities? Perhaps the right to arrest and search people, just as the Rescue Board is being given. I mean, that's completely absurd. Instead of organizing our society and legislation, we actually arrive at a complete anarchy, when all the agencies deal with all kinds of different functions and there is no more centrality or organization. How can this be the goal of a single government in organising state and social life? The opposite should be done. But as we can see, creating such a 'police state' is probably the goal of our government. Let us recall all the other drafts and laws that the government has brought to this Riigikogu: Nets, the Law on Safety at Work, the creation of a super database, ABIS, the creation of a new superregister. That's when we see this screw being squeezed all the time step by step to create a total surveillance society instead of an open and democratic rule of law. Such a government cannot continue. This government is taking us off the path of democracy. There is absolutely no justification for this. This action is quite clearly and directly unconstitutional. So I am very pleased that critical questions came from almost all political parties, although, yes, there were not very many members of coalition parties in this Chamber. But the Estonian Conservative People's Party supports the proposal made by the Fatherland to interrupt the first reading of this draft, to reject it, because there are no grounds for creating such absurd draft laws, much less adopting them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U410	Okay, thanks. I understand that you will not hand over this rejection [proposal]. [[There's an answer in the hall.]] It's a grant, a new form. Got it. So, any more negotiation requests? There's a chance. Please! There's no more. I'm closing the negotiations. It is now that we are at the first reading of draft 457 and the lead committee has proposed that the first reading be stopped, but the Isamaa Group has also proposed. The proposal is not to terminate the first reading of the Act amending the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure, the Traffic Act and the Tax Administration Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and to exclude it from the procedure. Well its translation is that the proposal is to reject the draft at first reading. And just to inform the members of the Riigikogu that the Conservative People's Party of Estonia supports the proposal of the Fatherland and that is why we must vote on it. Let's start preparing the vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting to reject the draft proposal of the Isamaa Group at first reading 457. Urve Tiidus, please! You're waving. You've got two hands. Mr. Sester, I can't see. You okay? Luckily. Dear colleagues, I am voting to reject the draft proposal of the Isamaa Group at first reading 457. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U411	With the result by 19, against 49, the proposal was not supported. It is now the case that we must go back to what the commission has decided: to finish the first reading of draft 457. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 3 November at 4 p.m. That concludes the first reading as well as the fourth item.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U412	Let's move on to item five. First reading of the draft Act amending the State Budget Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimitud. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U413	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Today's second draft on the state budget is in front of you. As we noted in the debate on the draft state budget for 2022, we all have an interest in making the state budget as comprehensible, transparent, readable and understandable as possible. It must be said that, while I was in opposition, I was the one who presented the political group at the time on behalf of the Reform Party Group...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U414	Good waitress, I'm so sorry to you! I'm so sorry, waitress, to you! Good fellows, there's a lot of noise in the hall. I think this noise comes from all the bench lines, as I'm looking at right now, from all the bench lines. I have a very big request: please respect the waitress, please respect those who wish to listen.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U415	Thank you, good manager. Well, it's just such an exciting subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U416	Why isn't he, why isn't he?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U417	That is understandable, and I am very understanding of Members. But indeed, the draft on this topic is also in the Riigikogu proceedings. The topic of transparency and comprehension of the state budget has been addressed by both the Chancellor of Justice and the National Audit Office. So I am now before you with the draft amendment of the State Budget Act, the so-called Basic Act. This is certainly a step in the right direction, and the current government's programme of action also provides that the plan for the development of the basic state budget law will be in place by June next year. It will be comprehensive and will cover the whole of the basic law. During this [compilation], there is certainly already an opportunity to design solutions that are suitable for the parties and that will help to improve this situation by engaging in wider and more thorough analysis. Since the deadline for drafting is June next year, but we already wanted to make the budget for next year better and easier to understand, the [draft] that is currently before you is such a first, quick solution. I think it is important to distinguish these two things. The draft that you are currently facing will not solve all the problems that have arisen, but it will also really be an opportunity to make the draft budget for next year and the budget more understandable. Now for more details on the changes we're planning. The aim is to increase the detail and transparency of the state budget, as well as to optimise the processes for drawing up the state budget and the state budget strategy. At present, it is planned to continue with an activity-based budget, i.e. the use of public money, tax money, will continue to be linked to the objectives to be achieved. However, there is a proposal for a much more detailed breakdown of the budget, at the level of the programme's activities. Since this is a budget, it is also appropriate to refer to numbers: detail is growing six times. While the draft budget accompanying the budget strategy approved in spring of this year described 38 programmes, the 2022 budget describes a total of 225 programme activities. In the case of investments, this proposal will be followed by items that are 10 million in volume and larger in each given year. Starting from the state budget of 2022, the annual state budget is allocated separately in the text of the section to what extent the Riigikogu gives ministers the opportunity and the right to amend and adjust the budget during their use. The draft budget for the following year is intended to allow up to 25% of the funds to be increased between the activities of the programme without amending the law. This is where the budget for the activities of the programme does not exceed EUR 4 million. However, if these are already larger programmes, the largest programmes are up to 200 million, then this increase in flexibility cannot be 25%, because it would simply be too much freedom or too much money that would then go on modulation without Parliament's decision. So here we have a proposal that the ceiling be EUR 5 million and not more than that. Up to 5 million would also be entitled to redeploy resources within the budget for very large programmes. Okay. There is another important change. This is about a proposal that we would not make twice the budget in a year. We now have a situation where, in essence, the first budgetary negotiations and disputes are being held in the spring when making the country's budgetary strategy and then again in the autumn when a new economic forecast has come. This would indeed happen once a year in the autumn after the summer economic forecast and in spring it would be important to agree on a general framework in which the budgetary position should fit. Honourable Riigikogu! As has been said, this is the first step towards improving the process. I believe that when we come to the intention of development and the new interpretation of the whole basic law, these discussions will be even more detailed and more serious. But even now, I'd be happy to answer the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U418	Thank you. You have at least one question. Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U419	Dear Minister, The Chancellor of Justice writes in the coordination table that this draft does not solve the problem of budget opacity and the lack of budgetary decision-making in the Riigikogu. That's what it says, and the Department agrees. I, too, say, have one of the major substantive questions that the explanatory memorandum to this draft does not explain. How, or on what basis, are these programmes still set up, on what grounds? I had the same example of the defense police building. The construction of this building contributes to the constitutional guarantee programme, but the investment could also contribute to the Ministry of the Interior's programme to combat serious organised crime. This sharing of costs between the programmes is estimated. I am asking: how, according to what principles, are the costs outsourced or divided into programmes between these cost sets?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U420	Thank you. That's a good question. I guess that's the way you answered yourself. That's the estimate. On the basis of a specific area, it is often a minister of... I wouldn't say it's his real choice, but it's still his assessment of the program under which exactly the specific cost should be reflected. In essence, I think there are a number of examples of how a specific allocation of money contributes to achieving a number of objectives. From the education field, we can certainly give a lot of examples of this, in fact, certainly also in the field of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, also from the Ministry of the Interior, to which you referred. It is not always the case that one allocation only serves the objectives of one programme, but in the end, of course, it can only be reflected in one place and this choice really needs to be made. It's estimated, it's true. Indeed, as you referred to the letter from the Chancellor of Justice, that is the case. I also said in my introduction that all the problems associated with the transition to an activity-based budget, which have been highlighted, will not be solved with this draft, but a start must be made. Thanks to this, I believe that the budgetary picture for next year will also be much better and more detailed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U421	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U422	Good manager! Dear Minister, The ABB is also intended to make the state budget more understandable for decision-makers and readers who lack accounting knowledge and to link the country's strategic objectives with the resources available. If you just read this budget, I think there are a few fundamental shortcomings. One is that if we look at the budget for next year, there should be a budget for this year, how much more or less anything next year will be done or spent. The second is whether or not these objectives have been met. I understand that the budget will be handed over in September and the year has not yet ended, but it is also possible for ministers and ministries to make forecasts. Right now it's always going to be that we're looking at next year and backwards over and over, but we don't have this binding that's been side by side for many years and these numbers are visible. Can it not be solved?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U423	Thank you. It is not possible to solve this to the very end for the same reasons that you yourself described. But, in fact, such a retrospect is always before Parliament at the time when the annual report for the previous year is considered, when this view can be resolved in more detail. In general, we already have the budget item for next year, which is why I do not have the draft budget with me, but if you look at the explanatory statement on the budget, you will still see there that most of the comparison has been made with the previous year. There are certain places where the bases for calculation have changed, have become more detailed at the level of the measure, and there is not quite a comparison of this amount, or the comparison results in the wrong result, but in general both 2021 and 2022 expenditures have been well identified in the budget explanatory memorandum. So, of course, it also helps to get a better overview of the change in priorities. Where possible, it must be followed. It's not possible everywhere, but generally, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U424	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U425	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. It is probably to be welcomed that the decision of the Riigikogu extends to the level of the programmes and we can see it in more detail. If I understand correctly, programmes will be drawn up on the basis of development plans to meet the objectives set out in these development plans. Development plans are still decided by the government, but programmes designed to implement these development plans will now be decided by the Riigikogu's state budget. Do you not see a potential problem here when the government approves the development plan, but the Riigikogu's decision confirms programmes that do not want to support these development plans? Whose word is there, and how can such situations be resolved? Will the government change the development plans so that they correspond to the programmes adopted by the Riigikogu, or how have you thought about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U426	Thank you. Good question. Well, in general, there are two things that you want to link to the draft before you: this umbrella document "Estonia 2035," which is discussed and discussed by Parliament, and hence the rest of the development plans, as well as the budgetary choices and decisions. These two things still have to go into sync. Finally, if you ask who will have the floor, whether the decision of the Riigikogu through the budget, or say, sectoral development plans, which do not all come before Parliament, then in a parliamentary state the word of the parliament will always and always prevail. Well, I guess that's the end of it. Plans can be made of all kinds, but if they don't have financing decisions, they'll be empty plans. So in this sense, setting a target in the "Estonia 2035" strategy, setting a target for Estonia in its entirety, and then the detailed financing decisions from the budget should be linked to these two things.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U427	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U428	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, A number of proposals have been made for the draft, however, a relatively small part of which has been taken into account. I think there were 35 proposals and seven have been taken into account; the rest has been written according to relatively little common practice just to explain. It's not like I've seen it a lot, but that's why. Instead, my question is that perhaps you are going to talk a little bit more about why such a small part could be implemented. On the basis of this example, the National Audit Office has proposed making budget information for different years comparable. Why is it not possible to enter or implement it now in this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U429	Thank you. I think that the most important content of this draft, and the most important point, is that we would have had the basis and the basis for adjusting the budget for next year and making it more transparent and understandable. This pace has clearly been very rapid, which is why the same responses to the proposals have often referred to the intention to develop, which, as I said, will be much more ambitious and not subject to this type of time pressure, as we have today due to the draft budget for next year. There's no other reason. We have a desire to adopt the basic law as a whole; this must be done without haste and without having to be done in a week or two on the basis of the new rules for the whole budget. Therefore, most of these comments and proposals need to be considered precisely in the process of developing this comprehensive solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U430	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U431	Good manager! Dear Minister, How would we solve such a problem? Let's look at the budget for next year. The explanatory memorandum of the Ministry of Culture has the wrong numbers, the whole 2021 numbers must have the 2020 numbers. The Minister of Defence must protect the budget and state that certain revenue has been forgotten to be included in the budget, but it is not possible to add these revenue to the Riigikogu today. Should we see that there could be a cost-benefit side in the Riigikogu, that if they find that there is a possibility of income coming from taxes or from any side, so that this side of income can also be increased? If there is now a budget with faults, I don't want to blame anyone, it always happens to the Riigikogu and the Riigikogu cannot correct them, then the bill should be withdrawn and re-submitted, but the pace does not allow it. Have you thought that the Riigikogu should be given more opportunities in terms of both revenue and expenditure?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U432	Thank you. The Riigikogu's opportunities for income, we call it that, for adjustment, have always been limited. But there is also a reason for this: not becoming overly creative in forecasting revenue and adjusting forecasts. That particular question you're referring to, concerning the Ministry of Defense, was about the orchestra, about the famous orchestra that everyone loved. In this regard, it was true that, after the draft budget was submitted, this orchestra had a more precise content and that a forecast of its own revenues had been made. As you certainly know as the previous Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the general budgetary logic is that if the agency generates its own revenue during the year and these revenues are not specified in the amount, they will have the opportunity to use them. It's not like they're hanging out in the air. There wasn't that much of a problem. But if there are places that need to be corrected, these problems or problematic places and mistakes must be corrected. We have presented this draft budget on the government side, and we must do so. So I'm asking you to let me know early because you have to fix it, of course.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U433	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U434	Thank you. I have another substantive question. We have seen in practice in the activity-based budget that these programmes are based on estimates, these cost sets that are called programmes are not comparable over the years, their content is changing, their content is arbitrary. I'm not exaggerating, I guess. Why couldn't such analytical, assessment-based material be, say, some kind of additional analysis presented to members of the Riigikogu who have an in-depth interest in its activity-based budget? But I do not understand why these expenditure sets based on subjective estimates are presented as a state budget to be established by law. Who needs it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U435	Thank you. This is necessary in order for the budget to reflect on what the objectives are to be achieved through the use of tax money. I think it's the right aim and the right goal as a principle. Should some programmes be more precise in terms of the same objectives, the so-called metrics? I think you can do that, and that's what you have to do. But in principle, yes, I really think that, apart from purely such an accounting view, it is important that there is a more open-minded view than content. This has been the point of this activity-based budget. You can always make it better. The activity-based budget will become comparable over the years when we no longer have the activity-based budget for the first year, but this practice has been implemented longer. It's all very fresh right now. In 2016, there was a debate in this Chamber on a report on fiscal policy, and then there was the wish and recommendation of the Chamber that the government should move to the production of an activity-based budget as soon as possible. It was followed back then. We now have the results from this. There is a need to improve where the current practice is expected to be improved.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U436	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U437	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Still, coming back to my first question: I see a logic error and a problem in it when the development plans are approved by the government and the programmes are approved by the Riigikogu. With regard to the latest development plans that we have had in this Chamber, I would say that, for example, in the cultural development plan that the Minister of Culture gave us, half the metrics were missing, right? If we here have to validate the programs without knowing what government metrics are, it could lead to dissonance. Please still consider whether this is the right move. But I'd like to ask you about these programs. I understand that every minister would like to have more flexibility, not to be here in the Riigikogu. Can it not be that some clever minister in this or the next government is deliberately starting to spew these programs so that they are as small as possible so that he does not have to come to the Riigikogu with every change? Don't you see the danger?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U438	Thank you. Well, clever ministers have certainly been in previous governments, are now and will be in the following. But it does not help in any way that this amendment should not come before Parliament. As I said, if more than 25% of the programme is to be changed, it must come before Parliament. In this sense, if there are very many, as you referred to, small-scale programmes, then the result is actually the opposite. So, yes, I don't think it's wise to apply this tactic.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U439	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U440	Thank you, good Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. I'll ask you two questions. Do you believe in an operational and result-based budget? If so, how can such a conviction be taken to all ministries? We cannot make an operational budget transparent and meaningful, so to speak, for real use if it is not used as a management instrument in ministries. The benefits of linking targets to resource use must be widely understood and something that is also seen as valuable in everyday work and as a tool for assessing the effectiveness of their work. How can this be achieved? Once this has been achieved, we will get to the fact that we have a budget that, when we read, we will understand what is being done with our common money over the year.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U441	Thank you. I support the use of meaningful and demanding tax money. I am quite convinced that the activity-based budget is fully in line with this principle and principle. But this is one new thing, an activity-based budget in our areas of government and ministries. Well, I guess with every new thing, it's a little bit like this, so it would be nice to go on with inertia the way it's always been. Really, meaningful thinking, setting substantive goals, thinking through, and precisely keeping these links, so that the use of money, directing money is actually consistent with the objectives and, in fact, helping to achieve these goals, goes more bumpy in some places than in others, but I think, once again, that in itself, as a principle, it is the right thing. It must be thought-out and meaningful and must be linked to Estonia's long-term interests and strategic goals in the way we use this money.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U442	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U443	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! For years, it has been said that our budget has become increasingly understandable and opaque from year to year. This problem was to be addressed by the transition to an activity-based budget. In fact, we saw that the problem grew even bigger than it was before, and indeed the situation is insane, I would say. It is to be welcomed that the government has now taken one step to try to clarify it, but in fact it is more of such cosmetics. We look at the comments from the Chancellor of Justice, the Supreme Court, the National Audit Office, etc. In fact, everyone, like one mouth, asserts that it is very broadly worded, very, very scattered and inadequate. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Exactly why did the state or government not take sufficient steps?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U444	I'll step in for a second. Sorry, good answer! Good fellows, one minute is the question. Yes, please, Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U445	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good questioner! You are, of course, ugly critical of the budget proposed by your party chairman when you say that this year's budget is worse than ever. But that's it. As I said in response to Riina Sikkut, the activity-based budget as a whole is quite a new thing. While the ABB started to be shifted in part earlier, the ABB was presented for the first time in the form of a 2020 budget in its entirety. So 2020 and 2021 have been budgeted on an activity-specific basis. I guess these bottlenecks will probably come out in the process of testing this operational basis. "Testida" is wrong. It's more like it's in the process or when it's over. I believe that, in fact, regardless of who is in the process of correcting these errors, this desire in itself is the same for everyone, so that, in the end, there would be a clear and readable document, a traceable document. The [budget] of 2021 is not the best in this view, 2022 is the best, but certainly not the perfect or the perfect. If you're asking why you couldn't fix everything right now, there can only be one answer: time pressure. The time pressure under which we have put together next year's budget was developed at the same time as the draft amendment of the basic law and we have actually started to prepare a more comprehensive development plan, with a desire and plan to address these bottlenecks in a more comprehensive and comprehensive way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U446	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U447	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I am asking about the extension of the deadline for the use of unused funds. If these state budget resources remain unused and are moved to the next year, will the same allocation of activities be maintained, i.e. they may not really be changed by more than 5% in the new year or by a maximum of 5 million? Or how exactly do you explain this side?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U448	Thank you. 25%. This applies, of course, to programmes on an annual basis. In that sense, it will remain valid if I understand the question correctly. [[A voice from the hall.]] Yeah, same distribution.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U449	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U450	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. Whatever the principle, or by what distribution is this budget made and the explanatory statement drawn up, how far has the idea gone to get a much faster overview of what is happening in the government budget? For each area of government, one or two A4 could be made: major changes, a breakdown of the budget by economic content and a proper time series on how the budget for the sector has increased. In such a way as to enable the Riigikogu, in addition to the government's press conference, to obtain numerical confirmation of whether those which are the priorities of the government are actually reflected in the budget in the form of euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U451	Thank you. Yes, it is possible to get this overview now by working through the explanatory memorandum, but I agree that it is a very substantial detailed document. In order to have such a summary of the explanatory memorandum in substance, the point of the question is, and I think it is actually a reasonable idea. Once again, it is often the case that every area finds that everything that is in the explanatory memorandum is already consolidated, and that is what is most important. We must somehow convince them to make this brief summary, often on several dozen pages, even more compact. But I think that makes sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U452	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I would like to ask Erki Savisaare, Chairman of the Finance Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U453	Thank you, Mr President. Good Riigikogu! The Finance Committee prepared the draft law amending the State Budget Act for the first reading on 12 October. The draft was presented by the Minister of Finance, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, as the representative of the initiators. It has to be said that in this Chamber this review was even more comprehensive than in the Commission at the time. Nevertheless, the Commission reached a consensus that it could conclude the first reading of this draft and set the deadline for amendments at 10 working days, i.e. 3 November at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U454	Good colleagues, any questions? Good chairman of the committee, good waitress, thank you. There are no questions. Now I will open negotiations and ask Aivar Koka, representative of the Isamaa Group, to the Riigikogu speech chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U455	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, If you look at the draft law amending the State Budget Act and think about what you want to change, you can see that two changes are being made in order to increase the detail of the state budget. Firstly, the breakdown of the budget to be approved by the state budget will be amended, and the breakdown of expenditure will be presented at the level of the programme's activities instead of the current level of the programme. As a second change, investments in the governance area will be taken out of the programmes and presented in the central part of the governance area. The investment can contribute to several activities. At the same time, past investments through depreciation have already been included in the cost of services and activities. Now we are talking about an activity-based budget. Of course, they are constantly trying to make it clear that it is only the third time that it cannot, cannot or will not be done. However, the activity-based budget is also intended to make the state budget more understandable for decision-makers and readers who lack accounting knowledge and to link the country's strategic objectives with the resources available. As a result, the performance of the country's tasks should be more effective and efficient, the provision of public services should be of higher quality, government expenditure and staff numbers should be lower, and the organisation of government work should be more flexible and less bureaucratic. Let's look at the bill on the table today. Here it is proposed to remove the requirement to submit a draft performance report as a mandatory part of the draft budgetary strategy for the Ministry's area of government. Then it is natural that no one understands what an activity-based budget is and why it is needed. On the one hand, we are writing out clearly what we need an operational budget for, but on the other, we are saying that this requirement does not need to be made. In my opinion, each section of the ministry's budget should have a very clear line on how the performance of tasks is more effective and more efficient, how the provision of public services is, thanks to this, better quality, which ministry spending will decrease, how the number of employees will decrease as a result of some kind of IT supplement or something else, and how the work organisation of the government sector will be more flexible and less bureaucratic. Unfortunately, there isn't a word about that. In my opinion, this is the place that would, on the one hand, help members of the Riigikogu to understand the budget better and, on the other hand, make the ministerial officials who put together the budget make a little more effort. It must be acknowledged that when ministers go to the Commission to defend their budget, there are always ministers who do so very well, but often it happens that some do not understand what they are defending very well. Luckily, they always have officials with them. Often most questions are answered in writing. In particular, in terms of costs and benefits, it is not possible to say why an investment is necessary, what its purpose is, where the revenue comes from. Then we say next year that we wanted the best, but it turned out as usual: money has gone, but there has been no cost, no reduction in economic or wage costs, while investment on the IT side has been made in large amounts. Somewhere they should be compatible. Neither are the strategies today very clearly in place for IT systems to be compatible between ministries, so that no documents need to be submitted ten times. At the same time, the same approval of programmes. If a 100-million-dollar program is approved and up to 25% can change it according to the Minister's wishes and whatever he wants, I think it's a pretty big sum. It is desirable to withdraw up to 10 million from the budget, but most of the investments are less than 10 million. The visibility will be further reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U456	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading of the 436 SE be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 3 November at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the fifth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U457	Let's move on to item six. First reading of the draft law amending the Gambling Tax Act and the State Budget Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimitud to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U458	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The draft submitted in July this year, and now before you, will change the procedure for using the revenue from the gambling tax received by the state budget. Under the current rules, 47.8% of the gambling tax goes to cultural capital. The lion's share of it is allocated to cultural buildings, building cultural buildings, in addition to promoting the creative work of lecturers in the field of arts and folk culture. That part doesn't change, it stays the way it is now. The rest of the gambling tax has so far been allocated to four ministries: the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance, more specifically the regional part of the Ministry of Finance. According to the amendment, the amount to be allocated to these four ministries in the future would be equal to the level of funding for 2021, i.e. fixed at the level of 2021, and would not depend on future fluctuations in the collection of gambling tax. The second amendment to this draft concerns the amendment of the State Budget Act in such a way as to give the Minister the right to carry out the administrative task associated with the implementation of the national support programme in addition to the state foundation and the foundation established with the participation of the state, a foundation or non-profit association established by the municipality and the municipality, so that they can also be authorised. These are substantive amendments to this draft. Good people's representatives! I am aware that there are areas, associations that have expressed concerns about whether they can be sure that the areas that have been supported so far will continue to be supported. As has been said, there has been a clear desire in the drafting of this draft that this would indeed be the case for the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance to continue to support these areas at least on the same scale as foreseen in 2021. If the solution currently proposed does not provide enough certainty for this, then an amendment to the proposed draft will have to be made, and if the areas supported so far have uncertainty on this issue, then they simply need to be reassured. As I have proposed today in the discussions on the margins of this Chamber, in such a case, two changes could be made to the draft proposal in order to remove fear. Firstly, in this case, really set the level of 2021 in financial terms, in number, and secondly, to redefine in law the same areas that have so far received support. Whether any changes should be made in these areas and whether anything else needs to be added to it can certainly be discussed. But I think it might be a sensible solution to take these really unwarranted, yet understandable fears down and resolve this situation. I believe that we are ready to negotiate with Members of Parliament on the side of the Ministry of Finance with precise wording so that the problem can be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U459	Thank you. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U460	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I will use the text and words contained in the explanatory memorandum to this bill on my question. The Government of the Republic has decided to abandon the principles applied, according to which the income from gambling tax received in the state budget is used for the purpose of using the state budget in a flexible way. While this has so far been done within the so-called Ministry of Social Affairs, supporting projects to support medicine, people with disabilities and children and families, now suddenly this legislative amendment increases flexibility in the use of funds and expands potential strategic partners. Please identify these strategic partners in a very flexible manner and the activities and areas supported in a flexible manner.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U461	Thank you. In fact, in my opinion, it was even a pointless ironing. Fields. I don't know, in the Ministry of Education and Research, this money has been used to support science, education, children's and youth projects, in the Ministry of Social Affairs to support projects related to medicine, welfare, families, elderly people and people with disabilities, also to support activities related to people with gambling addiction, to grant regional investment grants from the Ministry of Finance, to support projects preparing for the Olympics from the Ministry of Culture, to support sports sports projects for people with disabilities, to support other sports projects, also to support cultural projects and to support activities related to combating the manipulation of sporting events. These are all the areas that will continue, as I said, to receive this support from the respective ministries. What exactly are these partner organisations, certainly in detail, each minister in this field or every ministry can specify. I don't have that list with me. I can't answer that right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U462	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U463	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, However, it seems to me that the government has not quite understood this concern, which you may have understood in this way, has been passed on. The problem is not only that there will be the same funding available in the state budget this year in 2022, but the problem is that now that we untie it, the current indexation that comes from natural growth and the consumer price index will also disappear. This is a real concern that reduces the funding of these organisations. I'll give you an example here that once, road maintenance was funded from fuel excise, then untied, they said there was nothing to worry about. Today we know that there is more to worry about than enough. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] In the case of municipalities, this amount has decreased rather than increased. What is the basis for your confidence that this concern will be resolved?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U464	Good questioner, your time! One more time, 60 seconds. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U465	Thank you. There is no automatic indexation of expenditure here. The problem that actually emerged with regard to the financing of these projects was, for example, the year 2020 when the tax on gambling decreased and, therefore, the possibility of financing these same projects was significantly reduced. So it is not quite accurate that, in the case of indexation, there would always be an automatic increase in funding. In the case of the state budget, it is still the case that, on the one hand, funding directly linked to one type of income or another is being committed somehow. On the other hand, it is seen as a problem when its revenue is decreasing, as happened last year with the same gambling tax. We also discussed the state budget as a whole a few points ago with you, including the financing of municipalities, the remuneration of teachers, the financing of the wages of cultural workers. All of these are examples of what is financed by the general revenue of the State. Where would this possibility arise if all revenues were automatically rigidly linked to one cost or the other? However, the fears that have come to me in connection with this draft relate to certain areas precisely in the view of whether, in the future, in the fields of culture and sport, for example, the possibility of submitting project proposals will be maintained and whether the funding of their existing, let us say, specific projects will continue. As I have confirmed, there has been a wish for this to continue in the development of this draft. If it's unclear or it's linked to the fears of whether it's gonna be like this, then it's gonna have to be solved. This can be done as an amendment, which, as I have said, I believe can certainly be done as a joint creation of both the Ministry and the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U466	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U467	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. You have read nicely all the areas affected by this change. But I have a question about what your purpose is. The explanatory memorandum to this bill clearly states that this is to improve the budgetary balance next year, which I think is the idea of a million and a half, which may not be a very large amount in terms of the whole budget. Let's see how many areas are hit by this same budget explanatory statement. It says that as a result, the competitiveness of Estonian athletes may be reduced in the title competitions, as long as 100 cultural projects are not funded outside large centres and therefore cultural participation, cultural creation opportunities throughout Estonia, continuity of cultural life, the quality of the activities planned, diversity and also the degree of coherence between different sectors of society may be reduced. In other areas too, losses are slightly different in four years from 2 to 3 million, in different areas. Why do you still have to do it when you say it takes away the money?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U468	No, on the contrary, you may not have noticed, I have just said that the level of 2021 will also be fixed financially. This [cause], which is why it may also change in 2021, is a real tax on gambling, which in 2020, for example, was set back in a crisis situation. However, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, the aim in the future is precisely to remove such fluctuations and uncertainty. The financial level for 2021 is fixed. I have already said several times that it is likely that all these areas will have to be listed again in order to ensure that this funding will continue at 2021 level, as it is this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U469	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U470	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Indeed, it is a great concern for the sports people and cultural people. Of course, it calmed me down, which you have just said, that there is an opportunity to make changes here to ensure funding for the areas that have received [the money] for years. At the same time, we must admit that many countries somehow look up to us because this system is so good and working. At the same time, the Estonian Olympic Committee says in its letter that if these amounts are fixed, they will receive almost over one million euros less money in four years. It is also a concern that the Minister, the Minister of the Sector, according to his discretion, actually makes other choices to give. Just confirm the words you said here that the sports people wouldn't be worried.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U471	Thank you. Firstly, there is no reason to assume that financing in one area or another only comes from one source, that it relates only to the payment of gambling tax. I don't think it should be, shouldn't be, shouldn't be. Once again, the current situation is that, if less gambling tax is collected, the amount available for financing projects could indeed be significantly reduced. The content of this proposal is to fix the amount at 2021 level in order to avoid such situations. As has been said about the same concern that you expressed at the end of your question, whether the distribution will be based on someone's discretionary decision: it has never really been a discretionary decision, and it has never been. As has been said, if there is a desire to re-list these areas, then this amendment can and must be tabled.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U472	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U473	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! The current Gambling Tax Act regulates very precisely the areas in which this money is directed and to what extent. We remember how in 2020 the current Minister for Health and Labour, the Minister for Social Affairs at the time, violated this law and directed these funds to a greater extent than the law provided for, LGBT propaganda. I now understand the idea of amending this law in such a way that it aims to dispel it, to make such an activity legal, so that in principle all taxes received can be directed towards LGBT propaganda without it being contrary to the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U474	Thank you. That's an interesting interpretation. If you make such a proposal, we will certainly consider it. This amendment is certainly not included in this draft. I also disagree with the assessment you gave to the decision of the Minister for Health and Labour concerning the allocation of last year's money. But it has already been held and settled in a dispute. No, no one had made such proposals before you, but I guess we should consider it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U475	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U476	Thank you. In the interests of a bit of balance, I say that I am embarrassed to hear this argument that certain areas must have legal certainty that their costs will be indexed at all times. There is no rational justification for linking any sector to an index or a specific tax, unless it is social security. Politicians do policy and make budgetary decisions and allocate money according to their preferences. I have not been able to control it, but so far we knew that the areas would be decoupled from this tax, but I hear that one area has still been left in the former situation. It's called culture. Is it true that there have been any changes to the bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U477	Thank you. The Cultural Endowment, which receives 47.8% of the planned revenues from the gambling tax, continues to be in the same situation, i.e. culture capital should continue to receive 47.8%, which, as I said in the introduction, is used in the lion's section to fund cultural buildings. That is also the case in the original bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U478	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U479	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, When I asked about the money allocated to the Ministry of Social Affairs, you specifically said that strategic partners were involved in supporting projects related to medicine, welfare, families, the elderly and people with disabilities. But the problem is precisely the interpretation that is currently in force, this amendment to the law cancels it, makes it null and void. Perhaps only such an abstract term as "strategic partners" will remain. As I understand it, medicine and others fall off this list, out of the first list, and may be replaced by other strategic partners. I would like to know, however, because you came here with this bill, who are these strategic partners, apart from what you have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U480	Thank you. I will repeat again, now on several occasions, that the purpose of this draft has been to continue with the system for the same areas of funding as has been the case so far. I do not have the possibility to read to you at this time by specific strategic partners, by various associations. For them, the most accurate and better provider of answers will certainly be the corresponding ministry when you talk about specific partners. But, indeed, for those areas that I read out, it has been a desire to continue as it is today, fixing the level of funding for 2021.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U481	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U482	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! I wanted to ask something else, but I was deeply surprised by your response to Mr Kingo, who asked quite clearly that the Ministry of Social Affairs, led by Tanel Kiige, violated this valid law for years by channelling money to organisations related to sexual minorities. The traditional family didn't get a cent at the same time. Your accusation or claim, as if Kert Kingo had suggested that this company, the LGBT company, had been completely charged. On the contrary. But maybe you admit honestly that one of the aims of this law is precisely to legitimise this previously illegal activity?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U483	Thank you. I was wondering myself whether Kert Kingo really proposed this, but it was a good thing that it was now settled that there was no such intention for a member of the Riigikogu. I have already explained the objectives of this draft several times. There has certainly been a desire to continue supporting the areas previously supported by the Ministry of Social Affairs. These supported areas include and continue to include medicine, care, families, elderly people and people with disabilities, as well as activities related to people with gambling addiction. This is the plan to continue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U484	Kaido Höökelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U485	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, I'm sure, for some time, the tax on gambling will come back. What is the main reason why this system is now being bitterly destroyed? Flexibility in the use of.......... what does that mean anyway? Can we start installing traffic cameras at the request of the local government? Or what does this flexibility mean about the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U486	Thank you. There is no plan to fund traffic cameras from these projects, and neither is the Ministry of the Interior among these four ministries. These include the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Education and Research and the regional part of the Ministry of Finance. Flexibility means, among other things, that if, at one point, the tax on gambling should be recovered, the so-called over-expenditure amount from 2021 will come into revenue from the budget, which does not mean that, in the course of budgetary negotiations, it could not reach either the same [areas] or another field of the Ministry of Culture [amounts]. Because really, as today's debate on the state budget has shown, the issue of financing various salaries is also clearly at the heart of Members and not just Members of Parliament, also in the government, and the more flexible decision on revenue and expenditure of the budget is certainly just part of this change. But once again, I stress that, in these areas, there is a proposal and a desire to fix the level of 2021. It is not the case that, in the future, these areas should essentially start from scratch or worry about whether funding will continue at this level at all in the future. Yes, it will. The 2021 level is what needs to be fixed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U487	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U488	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, That's the problem with 2021 being cut into stone, and then it's the next, I don't know, 20 years. That's the problem. In fact, it is also referred to by the Olympic Committee: "We find that, by fixing the amount received by the Ministry of Culture for the next 4 years, Estonian sport will already lose EUR 340727 in 2022, and over four years the amount would be EUR 2713193. We recognise that in all global or sporting competition, this would have disastrous consequences for all of our sport. " Why are you still doing this? Maybe you'll explain it to the sports people as well as to the wider world. What for?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U489	Thank you. I reaffirm that the level of 2021 will be fixed. In this sense, to say that there will be a reduction in millions over the next few years, as you have indicated, that is not the case. So that we do not have a situation where, as a result of the reduction in revenue, the amount will be reduced, namely a proposal, a plan and a desire to fix this level of funding.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U490	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U491	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I'm asking about the Social Ministry line. First of all, is this residue, the unused income that was, due to the fact that there was a crown virus and there were no such events, or what is the result of this residue? Secondly, the explanatory memorandum states very clearly and again about the area of administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs that, in 2022 to 2025, the social budget is forecast to be EUR 3.3 million in support funds. Actually, that's less of an activity. The state of 2021 will be fixed, the kroon virus will reced, life will be better, people will want to organize events. Small projects were not among the strategic partners, they had a separate call for proposals, and very many small projects were not actually funded. It seems to me that things are getting harder.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U492	Thank you. It's a shame if it feels that way. This could be the case if the money to be channelled were to be reduced in the future as a result of a reduction in the amount of gambling tax due. This is precisely what we want to avoid in the future. Therefore, it is indeed proposed to provide certainty and to fix this amount in the budget. Now, on very many occasions, I will say that there will be no reduction in the volume financed in 2021, it must be fixed and it will be fixed. Speaking of these unused residues, it is true that EUR 1.7 million has been used in the Ministry of Social Affairs at the end of 2020. I think the reasons are different. One of the most important concerns is precisely the crisis situation and the corona crisis that you have referred to, but probably not only. This is also the case in the Ministry of Culture, for example, with a residual amount of EUR 669000 and a little bit more, the Ministry of Education and Research has EUR 537000, which is at the end of last year, and the Ministry of Finance has EUR 9.6 million in the regional sphere. So the current forecast is that as of the end of this year, the Ministry of Social Affairs will have unused money or money that can be used for the remainder of previous years, EUR 2.1 million. That's a lot of money. Yeah, some of it's definitely caused the corona, but not just that. I believe that there will certainly be a growing interest in using this residue in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U493	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U494	Thank you very much. First of all, in the remark order: I am really embarrassed to hear the comments from the floor that, in an area that is very sensitive to specific funding, [the funding] should not be firmly foreseeable in the multiannual plan and should be a matter for politicians to decide every year. In addition, this decision, whether the funding is firm or decided on a case-by-case basis, should be decisive. Dear Minister, I have a question about this. I think you have also discussed this draft with the sports community, and the Ministry of Finance has sent it to the sports community for inspection. But somehow these sports circles, headed by the Olympic Committee, are now completely on their hind legs, sending letters and desperate. Would you mind telling me why that is? What is the reason for their opposition if you claim that funding is actually secure?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U495	Thank you. As I said in the introduction, I have realised that this fear is primarily linked to the fact that, first of all, whether these same ministries, these four ministries, still continue to finance it in the form it has been. To take down these fears, as I said, this fortress must be given with this bill. It must be written into the draft with such clarity that it cannot be interpreted and understood in any way. This change has to be made. I guess that's what matters. These areas need to be assured that this will indeed continue to be the case and that this will continue to be the case for 2021 funding in the future. These amendments must be made and the draft corrected.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U496	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U497	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! As a multiple minister, you should know that when the minister presents a draft, he should still try to answer the question of the ambassador, rather than calling off his personal wishes here. But my question. You have repeatedly said here that the aim is to continue funding the areas in the same way. Why, then, do we need to make this change in the first place?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U498	Thank you. The content of this amendment is the fixing of revenues at 2021 level for these areas. I do not know, I can repeat it again, that if it involves concerns and fears, whether the financing principles will continue in the future, they must be removed, this certainty must be given and the bill corrected accordingly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U499	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U500	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! Unlike Jürgen Ligi, I am of the opinion that it is very positive that the state supports education, culture, science, child-related and other activities. But over the years people in the cultural, educational and other fields have been frustrated by the fact that this support is linked to gambling tax, on the principle that the more people play themselves naked in casinos, the better. In a broad perspective, this approach is absolutely wrong. Didn't you think about the possibility in the government that somehow these subsidies and this funding would decouple from the gambling tax, all the more so if you somehow fixed these amounts so it wouldn't have such a bad taste man?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U501	Well, that's the other side now, isn't it? There are those who are very concerned when they have doubts about whether they will be funded in the same amount in the future, because it has been directly linked to the receipt of the gambling tax, and then this is the other side that you described, and the questions. I would not say that this problem is so much that it somehow has a bad taste in it, but that it is about whether funding linked to one specific tax receipts provides enough certainty, right? On the one hand, we probably all want gambling addicts to be as low as possible, on the other hand, we want these areas to receive as much funding as possible. Well, it's always a dilemma, isn't it? But I think it is really important now to overconfirm and provide certainty that those areas that have received support so far should not be concerned about the continuation of support. That is what I have really done many times, and I think that the leaders and ministers must and can do so again.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U502	Kaido Höökelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U503	Thank you. Dear Minister, It is unclear for which period this level in 2021 will be fixed or whether it will be reviewed or fixed every year in the state budget talks. It doesn't make any sense. Secondly, when there was a debate at the Ministry of Finance on this bill, how many people in the sport, culture and, for example, social sectors did you involve in the talks?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U504	Thank you. Two things. In such a case, the amount would really go into the level of 2021, it would be fixed in this form and it would not be indexed in any way in the future, or would not have to be automatically reviewed, but, if it is found at one point that there is a reason to change it, it would have to be amended. However, this does not mean that the money to be channelled to these areas is limited only to this amount, which in no way should it mean this and has not meant it in the past, because these non-signal sources of funding are in fact still available in all the areas listed. In general, the general logic of drawing up the state budget is that revenue is not automatically linked to a specific expenditure, but that the budget is still subject to debate and discussion as to the financing decisions of the sectors, regardless of the receipt of a specific revenue. In short, the level of 2021 will be fixed. The other half of the question concerned inclusion. As far as the four ministries are concerned, in particular each ministry itself comes with its own administrative interest groups. During the round of coordination, which, as has been said, was in July, the draft also went to the Union of NGOs, cultural capital and the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities to issue a separate opinion. So they were in addition to the circle of engagement that the ministries have done for their part.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U505	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U506	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, I have a follow-up question to the questions of the good colleagues Helmen Küti, Kaido Höökelson and Jüri Jaanson, who pointed out that, in fact, this draft does not really give the impression that the future financing in these areas is certain. Let's see Table 2 on page 5 of this Official Journal. Whoever's doing this bill with the explanatory statement right now, there's no way he can read that he's a fortress. It is clearly stated here that the Ministry of Culture's budget will fall by 1 million in 2025. In fact, it should be rewritten or clarified or improved in this way, so that all the areas to which ladies and gentlemen have already referred have confidence in funding. Without it, I cannot support this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U507	Yeah, that's right. That's right, that's where I started my introduction. We are talking about the level of 2021, this certainty must be given and, if there is no certainty, it must be worded in such a way that anyone who finally opens this document will be able to get the fortress there. If there is a failed wording here, it is very regrettable, it must therefore be reviewed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U508	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U509	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. However, you do not understand your logic if you tell us that there is no reduction in funding. After all, the explanatory memorandum states clearly: because we fix 2021, for example, sports will receive less money in the next four years, 2.7 million. This is clearly, as a number of colleagues have pointed out, in your signed explanatory statement. In answering a number of questions, you have told us that there will be no reduction in funding, on the contrary, if the gambling tax is to be collected less, we are, just as we are fixing and just as there are no problems. At every point, at each ministry, the explanatory memorandum you have drawn up and signed says that 2.7 or 3 million or 1 million, everywhere the word "that's why" is inside it, this funding will decrease, in all areas. Please explain once again how your logic does not reduce this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U510	Thank you. In the same explanatory memorandum that you have before you, there is a paragraph that says that from 2022 a new regulation will be implemented and the Ministry's budgets will be planned annually according to the revenue of the gambling tax estimated in accordance with the law in force in the 2021 spring forecast by 2021. Perhaps this is what it actually says that this amount will be fixed and there will be no reduction compared to 2021. If this explanatory statement is difficult to read, then, as I said in reply to the previous questioner, it must be written down more clearly. Once again, the level of 2021 will be fixed and will be so.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U511	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U512	Thank you. I am still concerned by these signals that some areas are being raised at the level of the law and that they still have some confidence. Since the majority seems to think that fixing funding at law level will bring happiness and prosperity, can't we just fix all the areas in the law that they have to have more money at all times than before and that no politician's call must get in there?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U513	Thank you. Yes, such proposals have been made, more or less seriously. This is probably an instinctive and natural approach, looking in a narrow way into one area. It seems to everyone that if, in particular, one area has been fixed as a percentage in any way, this is the easiest way to make a budget. But the result is, of course, exactly the opposite: the more money is tied very rigidly and so-called 'label', the more impossible it is to put together the budget as a whole, because the need for funding has been linked from the social, educational and cultural fields, as we have been debating for a long time today during the debate on the draft budget, to wage demands, and therefore this very rigid linking of the budget as a whole will certainly only make the situation more difficult. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U514	George Jaanson.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U515	Thanks! Dear Minister, First of all, thank you very much for the message that we will make some adjustments before the second reading and see how we can make things better. But now that, as a person who knows a little about sport and also knows how to manage sport, I know that sport management is thinking about financing the Olympics, plans are being made on an Olympic basis, i.e. four years, as is the case with the country's budgetary strategy. Would it not be reasonable for whatever changes take place in sport, the state or the ministry to conclude some strategic document with strategic partners in sport, such as the Olympic Committee, the Demos and others, which would show the direction or volumes of funding on the basis of the Olympic principle, in order for them to develop, have and maintain confidence in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U516	Thank you. This is a proposal, I think, which I will certainly take to the Minister of Culture for consideration. In particular, if we fix and eliminate the risk that these amounts will decrease significantly as the crisis is prolonged or the gambling tax is reduced, we should think about it. I think it's a worthwhile suggestion.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U517	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U518	Thank you. But I'm still trying to understand the meaning of this bill. The draft [explanatory memorandum] starts with the words that the Government will initiate this flexibility in the use of gambling tax instruments. The leitmotif of your story today is that we are writing into the law specific amounts, numbers, how many euros, and we are writing into the law specific areas that are going to receive funding. How, then, will this increase flexibility, which is the point of this draft? If you're going to write numerical sums instead of percentages, doesn't the law make a pointless waste of time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U519	Thank you. No, we are not, because we are talking about fixing the level of 2021. There has been a situation in recent years where tax revenue has decreased, but it is likely that at some point it will also be growing again. In this case, the level of 2021 has been fixed for these areas from the budget as a whole view of the receipt of the gambling tax. The remaining amount, as I do not exactly remember, which I explained in reply to the question asked, comes from the state's revenue. It will be part of the budget as a whole, to which it will be possible to finance the salaries of health workers, social wages and everything else. Maybe he's part of all the budget revenue. But once again, just in case, no one will take this out of context afterwards: it is important to give certainty to these areas, as we have repeatedly read here today, concerning projects financed through four ministries. For them, the situation will not change from this year. This fortress has been the idea of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U520	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U521	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Can you tell me how many years it has gone from this money to the treatment of ludomania and how much money has gone into prevention?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U522	I can't tell you the details right now. I'm sure I can send them to the questioner later, ask the Ministry for them. I don't have a detailed breakdown for years now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U523	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U524	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Let me be clear. As I understand it, the amount is fixed for the various cultural sectors that have received funding from the gambling tax, although smaller, much smaller than it has been in previous years, because the revenue for 2021 was not in the growth trend, was not so high. Does this mean that each year, if there is growth in the economy, the corresponding field can write to its ministry , written request that you want an amount that is, say, some kind of deficit? I didn't understand how it was. If the economy is on an upward trend, but this amount is fixed, and for example EOK has already announced that this amount is lower than in previous periods, will they be able to make a new application?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U525	Now I understand the question. Thank you. Yes, of course this will be negotiated in the course of the annual budget, in addition to this fixed amount; of course, this is part of the process of budget negotiations. So that's it. As far as the level of 2021 and the level of receipts are concerned, there have been years when this amount has also been significantly lower than it is now. It's not that simple. It was therefore necessary to draw this line somewhere to fix and the level of 2021, which is the year currently under way, has been this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U526	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U527	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! We were together at the Tallinn Council at the time when we fought against casinos. There were 140 casinos in Estonia, 70 of them were in Tallinn. I'm glad you still remember that ludomania is a gambling addiction and that it needs to be treated. This topic is actually bigger. I'm asking you now. In Finland, for example, alcohol producers maintain sobering houses with their own costs and letters. Is it not only, say, in terms of the prevention of ludomania, but also because, as a result of this, families are broken and there are tragic events, you, as a minister, would support some fixed amount here in order to get rid of this evil, because we have taxed the evil?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U528	Thank you. I think it's definitely something that needs attention, yeah. Whether this bill, or this law, is where this amount should be fixed, I am not sure of that until the end, but yes, it must be dealt with, that is what I agree with. Again, in the process of budgeting, it must be discussed how best to do it. There already are certainly the best leaders of the sector's own ministers and the most accurate details are known.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U529	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U530	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I took this phrase from one of your answers, and I think I'm not wrong, and you're probably going to confirm it right now, or you're going to disprove it, that the situation is not going to change, it's not going to get any worse. But it doesn't really get any better. In the round of coordination, the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities wrote the same thing that has actually been raised repeatedly by the questioners in the Chamber. I admit that maybe it will become clearer or more understandable, but the amount will remain the same as in 2021, it will not get any worse. But we're not just planning on living in a crown virus crisis. He's not getting any better. The Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities writes that the explanatory memorandum shows that for several target groups, possible sectoral operating support funds will be reduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U531	Thank you. I referred in my answers, and perhaps also in my introduction, to the fact that this problem was actually the most acute in 2020. It actually rose in 2020 when the tax on gambling decreased quite significantly. There was then a situation in which several areas and those who had traditionally submitted aid applications found that due to reduced receipts, the possibility of supporting these projects was significantly reduced. This is something that we want to avoid in the future, and that is why it is indeed proposed to fix the level of revenue for 2021, which is higher than in 2020, just in case I say so, in this form. Once again: the only source of funding for these areas is certainly not gambling tax and must not be. Certainly also in the course of further budgetary proceedings, this issue will have to be negotiated, precisely in the key to how, in a situation where the economy is expected to grow again or exceed the previous level and we will no longer have to deal with the crisis on an ongoing basis, these amounts will then have to be reviewed. But yes, let's say that in any case it takes away the concern that, in the event of an unexpected fall in revenue, the projects will simply not be funded. There is no such situation anymore.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U532	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U533	Thank you. I thank you for these explanations and also for the explanations you gave in the Commission. I'm starting to feel like there's been a little bit of a misunderstanding in the hall. One of the parties to this law is that the amount that different ministries receive is fixed. Let me get this straight. The second is that if it was clear to the ministries who could be given the money for and for which it could be distributed, now it has been erased from here. The ministry can share that money with anyone and how. There are two problems. One is that this amount will be fixed with one year's number, and the other is that those who have so far received and hope that in the coming years, too, will not have that certainty anymore, because everyone is afraid of one minister, everyone thinks that this draft is made by one minister. You claim that this is not the case and do not be afraid, but it is no longer the decision of the Minister of Finance when it goes to ministries where ministers and chancellors are the decision-makers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U534	Thank you. Indeed, we also raised this issue in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and it was good that it came up. It is a good thing that you asked this question because it really gave you the opportunity to reconsider how best to take down the fear or concern you described. As I said, since, at least for a moment, the Ministry of Finance has not had the idea that the areas that have received support so far should no longer receive it, it is indeed a proposal to fix it unambiguously during the procedure for the draft in such a case, in order to remove this concern. For the areas that we have read here and which have so far received support through the four ministries, as I said in response to Helmen Hunt, nothing will change. This will remain the same for them, these areas will continue to qualify for support and will be eligible for support.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U535	Good Minister of Finance, no further questions for you. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U536	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U537	Now I would like to ask Aivar Koka, vice-chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U538	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, The Finance Committee discussed the preparation of the Gambling Tax Act and the Draft Amending State Budget Act for the first reading, including on 12 October. The draft was presented by Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of Finance, representative of the initiator. As you understand, the content of the draft is that, in order to make more flexible use of state budget resources and to ensure the stability of funding for cultural, sporting, educational, regional and social projects, the Government of the Republic decided to abandon the principles applied so far, according to which the revenue from gambling tax received in the state budget will be used in a targeted way. According to the current Gambling Tax Act, a fixed percentage of the gambling tax received goes to the cultural capital and four ministries to finance the areas prescribed by law. According to the decision taken by the Government of the Republic at its meeting on 29 April including 29 April, the resources allocated to them under the state budget will remain at the level fixed in this year's spring 2021 forecast and will not automatically change in the event of an increase or decrease in tax receipts. Gambling tax revenue will be collected in the general income of the state. The Commission had exactly the same discussion as today in this Chamber. I reminded the members of the committee that the Association of Estonian Pensioners has sent a protest to the Commission on this draft. There is no certainty and there is fear of loss of support. The Minister replied that there was no cause for concern, that this year's level, which remains fixed, would not go below it, and that the situation would not deteriorate. According to Urmas Reitelmann, it is incomprehensible why the system will be changed. He wanted to know why the areas on which money may be spent have been excluded from the proposed draft. The current law defines the areas, and the new law no longer exists. If, according to the new version, the money goes to the ministry's administration, it can be financed by everything that comes to anyone's mind. The Minister replied that such an interpretation could not be foreseen. If there is an opinion that this is a problem, then there is still a need to discuss it. The main amendment to the draft relates to the fixing of this year's level between the four ministries according to the current breakdown. The percentage received by the cultural capital also remains valid. Erki Savisaar asked if the fixed amount was sometimes a percentage and at times an absolute number. The Minister replied that the percentage is divided into cultural capital and absolute values for the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Education and Research and regional projects at the Ministry of Finance. Rene Kokk noted that the fear of pensioners is justified and does not accept the idea of change. According to Riina Sikkut, concerns are understandable, and interest groups who are accustomed to distributing money under the law do not want such changes. How can we maintain good relations with our partners in the future and make sure that the use of funds in the future is transparent? Plus, who's supposed to be in communication? The Minister replied that the distribution of money would take place through a sectoral ministry that knew the target groups and interest groups best. The dissatisfied have overlooked the fact that when the COVID-19 crisis began, less gambling tax was actually collected. As a result, it was the opposite of concern that there was no fixed level and that the reduction in project funding was automatic. This situation cannot arise in the future. The proposed amendments ensure that the budget level is this year. Marek Uusküla explained that the system works perfectly when the gambling tax is currently collected on the basis of the law and on the basis of the percentages planned or more. The system will not work if the situation is described by the Minister. Last time it was in 2015, when the law was amended and there was a one month difference in receipts due to a shift in the date of declaration. The money was not received immediately, so the interest groups contacted the Ministry as soon as possible. I also pointed out that no one is opposed to the change in the ministry, but that the situation is being challenged by the abolition of areas which receive money and who do not. I am very pleased that I think the Minister answered most of our questions, and it was also in the Commission that it was the understanding that areas should be put back into the draft. Today, I believe that there could be a dispute as to whether the fixed amount for 2021 is the compromise that will be agreed or not. During the next ten days, when the first reading is terminated at random, all members of the Riigikogu can make their amendments. But I am pleased that the Commission and the Chamber have the same concerns and the same questions. I want to congratulate the Minister. I feel like he's been a little hurt. Someone has brought things and put in what the Ministry of Finance really shouldn't have guessed. I wouldn't blame the Minister of Finance for that for a moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U539	No questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U540	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U541	I'm opening negotiations. Heiki Hepner will be the first to speak on behalf of the Isamaa Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U542	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, To begin with, I would not be so gentle as my groupmate Aivar Kokk. I really feel that we are discussing a slightly different bill, not the same one. But now these worries. Indeed, the Government of the Republic decided to waive the principle that the revenue from gambling tax received in the state budget should be earmarked. The principle that has been implemented so far is abandoned as if it were a noble objective to ensure stable funding in the cultural field, in regional development programmes of municipalities, in research funding, in the social field, etc. I would say here that the road to hell is mostly paved with noble intentions. Although the Minister here tried to claim that no-no, you all get the wrong idea, money is not reduced, the draft explanatory memorandum clearly states that the Ministry of Culture's money is reduced by 3 million in four years, the Ministry of Finance's money by 2.73 million, the Ministry of Education and Research's money by 2.71 million, the Ministry of Social Affairs' money by 3.29 million. Well, I don't know, maybe the minister really had another bill he was defending here. The problem is, in fact, that by cutting this revenue base into stone, we will not go along with the changes in society and will deprive a number of areas of confidence so far. I recall the financing of roads, which once had to do with the receipt of excise duties on fuel. If it was abandoned, it was not to increase the funding for roads, but to reduce it. And today it's a problem. Today we discussed the state budget law for next year at first reading here. I should mark, however, that the municipalities requested 45 million for local roads, but we think that 30 million is quite the sum. Well, it's not a lot of money. But it shows this process, which, perhaps at some point, seems to be the case, it is wise to give up in the name of so-called flexibility, but in the end it clearly means less financing in this area. The Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities also replied negatively to this draft. Instead of denying their fear, this reply was actually blurred and did not give any additional certainty. I do not know why this draft did not go to the coordination of the Olympic Committee, for example, but indeed, the Olympic Committee, too, has very clear concerns. However, I would like to bring to you, ladies and gentlemen, the very specific concerns that the Olympic Committee has. They write: "Estonia has had a unique system in Europe, where a specific percentage of the income is provided at law level to support top sports. During this time, Estonia has received 9 Olympic winners..." Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U543	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U544	"... dozens of world and European champions. It is a testimony that such a funding system works and is successful. It is still a system that many European countries are trying to follow and implement, following the example of Estonia. " And now we're giving it up. "We find that, by fixing the amount of income for the next 4 years, Estonia's sport will already lose EUR 340727 in 2022 and EUR 2713193 in four years. We recognise that in all global or sporting competition, this would have disastrous consequences for all our sport." And it will be ignored. Well, that's only one area, but it actually concerns all these areas. It is most sensitive and most visible. After all, we were very sympathetic to our Olympic success in Tokyo. That is why this may be the best example to describe this problem. But it's not just a sport. However, one exception has indeed been made, it has been made through the Cultural Endowment of Estonia to finance these investments. But I also don't understand why one exception is good and the next is very bad. It doesn't come out of this bill either. The Minister also said that he understands our fear and understands our concern. But, ladies and gentlemen, here among us are Olympic athletes, top athletes, MEPs who are heartbreaking for culture and MEPs who are socially sensitive. I think the best way to take down this fear and concern is simply to reject this bill. The Isamaa Group proposes not to terminate the first reading of the Gambling Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and to amend the State Budget Act 459 and to exclude it from the procedure. In that case, we can really take a firm look at people in our cultural, sporting, scientific and social fields and, of course, people promoting regional development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U545	Do you have this rejection proposal in writing?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U546	Yeah. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U547	In fact, there should be a rejection proposal, you have "not to stop," but the idea is understandable. Please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, Eduard Odines.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U548	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, A sad pattern comes out of this bill, too. Once again, our government is running over the weakest. Once again, there are people with disabilities, athletes with disabilities, Paralympics, Special Olympics, children, young people and their activities. It all started in the spring with a cut in interest activities and now came to a reduction in gambling tax. We know that nothing has become much of a cultural pack, seven euros a year for a child. I wonder if there has been a more hostile government in our history towards children, young people and people with disabilities. Looks like there hasn't been, the coalition of the Central Party and the Reform Party will go down in history. The Minister claims to us that the amounts will be frozen at the level of 2021. Actually, the bill doesn't say that. The draft law clearly tells us that it is being pushed into the general pot, into the general revenue, and from there it is distributed among the fields. Maybe this government really shares these money like this. What will the next government do? What will the next government do? We know very well that when money is in the general pot, the soup that's being boiled there is probably quite lean. How much falls into the Olympic Committee, anti-doping foundation, disability projects, welfare projects, medical projects, regional cultural projects, regional development strategy projects, we do not know. The Minister tells us that, for the second reading, we will record these amounts and list the same areas that are currently in the law. Then there will be no point in this law. It's exactly the same law that exists now, just instead of percentages, there's going to be sums. These amounts will be estimated by some forecast for the previous year, according to this year's spring forecast, not even on the basis of actual receipts. All this is driven by the fact that we had a difficult year, the tax received less. If the next year, the year after, three or four years after, comes the good years and the tax gets more, we will still operate on the sums that were in the bad years. Forgive me, ladies and gentlemen, I do not see any logic in this approach. The explanatory memorandum clearly states in Estonian, even in grammatical terms it is very clear, this sentence is in every paragraph: because we set the amounts at 2021 level, things are not done, hundreds of projects are not realised, thousands of children are left without support, Olympic athletes are left without support. The explanatory memorandum also clearly states, for example, about the Ministry of Education, that the amendment of the law does not allow the continued allocation of grants to date. As a result, 2.2 million will not be collected in the education budget for young people. And so for every subject, as has already been said here. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U549	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U550	Thank you. It's very difficult to understand. This is where the voices of the Olympic athletes, the voices of the cultural people, the voices of the educational people, say why we do it. And the minister chops that in order not to reduce the money, and the explanatory memorandum says it's precisely to reduce the money. From our 13 billion budget, we save 11 million, precisely at the expense of smaller projects, regional projects. Why are we doing this? I don't get it. And then the minister tells us that we will increase flexibility, let the sectoral ministers decide where they will direct this money. They know better, the Minister of Finance will tell us. But today there has already been an example here of how the Minister of Culture says that he knows better, it is his discretion, it is his preference to direct all the resources of all projects that are planned for the year, to his own electoral region. Do we really want us to have all these hundreds of projects depending on what is specific to a particular minister in a specific area? Ladies and gentlemen, we certainly do not want such a thing. This bill certainly does not serve this purpose in order to make the system flexible. These fears, which have been expressed by a number of target groups, which are also listed here today, which have been sent to the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to the political groups that have been published in the media, are entirely justified fears that the many and many areas that have been listed very well in the explanatory memorandum will be deprived of support. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot allow such a thing! That is why the Social Democratic Party Group also proposes to reject this draft. This document has been transmitted electronically to the sitting department. I hope the mind wins and we send this french advice back to the Minister of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U551	The political groups have no further requests to speak. The Minister of Finance asked for the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U552	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu, first of all thank you for this debate, which took place first in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and then there was also this Chamber today. But what you have said and heard during the negotiations simply requires a response. That's why I'm back in front of you and I want to say two things. Firstly, the Ministry of Finance will continue to use money to provide regional investment grants, the Ministry of Education and Research will continue to use money to support education, research, children's and youth projects, the Ministry of Social Affairs will continue to use money to support projects related to medicine, welfare, families, elderly people and people with disabilities, and to support activities related to people with gambling dependence, the Ministry of Culture will continue to use money to support Olympic preparation projects, support for sports projects in the sport of disabled people's sports organisations and other sports projects, will remain money to support cultural projects, support activities related to the fight against sports manipulation, and the funding of cultural capital will continue in the same way as it has been so far. Secondly, the level of funding is maintained. If there is still uncertainty about this before, then this certainty must be given in the draft and, as has been repeatedly said, we are prepared to propose, together with the parliamentary groups and members of the Riigikogu, the wording from the Ministry of Finance in such a way that these concerns can be removed. I ask you to support this draft proposed by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U553	Mr. Sester, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U554	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I urge you, urge you, to forward this explanatory statement to the Minister of Finance, which he has just tried to quote in any way. The impact of the budget is clearly stated, which [the money] has been reduced in millions. Pass it on, otherwise the minister may be in the dark about what he was doing here today. Could you pass me that explanatory statement, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U555	Thank you! This was not a procedural question, because it had nothing to do with the conduct of the sitting. But now we have two proposals: from the Isamaa Group and from the Social Democratic Party Group. I would also like to point out procedurally to the Isamaa Group that the next time you wish to reject a draft at first reading, use the wording 'disjection' rather than 'no stopping the first reading'. Our home and operating procedures provide that it is possible to request rejection at first reading. But the thought is understandable. The Social Democratic Party Group's proposal has been properly drafted. We must vote through these proposals. Respectables, your attention, please. If the Isamaa faction suddenly gets a little... Mr. Sester, may I have your attention, please? Thank you! (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the Social Democratic Party Group and the Isamaa Group reject the draft law amending the Gambling Tax Act and the State Budget Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, at first reading, 459. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U556	The proposal was supported by 21 members of the Riigikogu. The proposal was not supported. We have finished our first reading and will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 3 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U557	Let's move to the seventh item on today's agenda. First reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please, Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U558	Thank you, good manager. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The draft has been submitted to you with a desire to transpose the amendments to the two directives. One of them regulates the general arrangements for the payment of excise duty and the other is an alcohol-specific directive. First of all, the amendments resulting from the Directive on the general arrangements for the payment of excise duty relate to the introduction of a requirement for an electronic delivery note across the European Union for excise goods. The draft provides that an electronic delivery note is to be drawn up when goods subject to excise duty are transported to another Member State. Since 2010, the European Union has been operating an electronic delivery system for EMCS, which is used to formalise a consignment note for non-taxed goods in transport between Member States. The European Union also extends this system to the form of a delivery note for excise goods which are subject to excise duty at the place of departure and which are transported to another country. Currently, the Estonian company uses the national electronic system SADHES when sending excise goods to another Member State. In future, the same EMCS already mentioned above will have to be used. For smoothing exports, the external transit procedure can be used in addition to the customs procedure. Under the current law, excise goods are deemed to have been exported from the moment of their removal from the excise territory of the European Union, but according to the amendment the goods can also be considered to have been exported from the moment of the external transit procedure. This means that the goods do not have to be physically removed from the excise territory of the European Union. The second amendment stems from an amendment to the Directive on alcohol-specific matters. The commodity codes for alcohol are updated, the principles of excise duty exemption for the use of alcohol for cleaning production equipment are clarified and the principles of proof of the status of economic operator as a small enterprise are laid down to the authorities of another country. Thank you. I would ask for this bill to be supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U559	Good Minister, there are no questions for you. Thank you! The view of the Finance Committee will be presented by the chairman, Erki Savisaar. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U560	Thank you, Mr President. Good Riigikogu! The Finance Committee prepared the first reading of the 458 SE on 12 October. The draft was also presented by Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus and accompanied by Mr Marek Uusküla, Head of the Department of Customs and Excise Policy, and Heidi Vessel, Head of the same department. And after a few questions... There were no questions from the Members of the Commission, as in this Chamber. The Commission then reached a consensual decision to close the first reading of the draft and set the deadline for amendments at 10 working days, i.e. 5.15 p.m. on 3 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U561	However, Mr President-in-Office of the Commission, there are still questions in the Chamber. Aivar Chef would like to ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U562	Good manager! Good chairman of the committee! Perhaps you will say in a few words what this will bring to the people of Estonia or to entrepreneurs. Are there obligations or what does it mean to transpose this directive?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U563	Thank you. The people of Estonia will change nothing with this directive. This concerns the requirement for electronic delivery notes and is more relevant to trade.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U564	Now we're out of questions, almost. Aivar Chef would like to ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U565	I understand this is the subject of excise goods. What, then, about excise goods, do we have a situation where the transposition of this directive affects or does not affect entrepreneurship?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U566	Thank you. I think it is always good to put such questions on the very deep content of the draft to a minister who has worked through this draft in much more depth. Our debate is based on what came up in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. But we're talking electronic data exchange. Losing all kinds of paperwork and replacing electronic documents will make life easier for both Estonian entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs who interact with Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U567	Now the questions are really over. I'm opening negotiations. That's not what I want, I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 458. The first reading is closed and I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 3 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U568	Our eighth item today is the draft Act amending the VAT Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 460 [first reading]. On behalf of the Government of the Republic, I would like to ask Keit Pentus-Rosimethus, Minister of Finance, on behalf of the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U569	Thank you, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! It's nice to be in front of you again. Now you have before you a draft, which also concerns the transposition of the directive. The proposed amendments to the draft act relate to amendments to the VAT Directive which will enter into force on 1 January and 1 July next year. In addition, the VAT Directive brings taxation of collector coins into line with the VAT Directive and proposes amendments to clarify the provisions or to reduce the administrative burden on taxpayers. I will explain the major changes that will accompany this draft. Firstly, from 1 January next year, from 1 January 2022, the exemption for goods and services will enter into force in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. This amendment transposes the amendment to the Directive establishing the right of the European Commission and the Agency established under European Union law to purchase goods and services at zero rate and to import goods exempt from tax in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. This tax credit applies only if these goods are purchased for free distribution or for free provision of services. This benefit shall apply retroactively from 1 January 2021. The second amendment concerns the entry into force of the VAT exemption for the defence activities of the European Union from 1 July next year. This is once again linked to the amendment to the VAT Directive and its transposition. The armed forces of a Member State participating in the defence activities of the European Union shall be subject to a similar exemption of value added tax (VAT) which has so far been granted to the armed forces of a NATO Contracting State participating in the defence activities. The last major amendment is similarly the amendment to apply from 1 July 2022 concerning the taxation of collector coins. The amendment brings taxation principles into line with the VAT Directive. Under this provision, the VAT exemption cannot be applied to coins which are not normally used as legal tender or which have numismatic value, i.e. collector coins. The European Commission asked Estonia about this at the beginning of this year, in which it pointed out that Estonia's current VAT treatment of collector coins is not in line with the VAT Directive. We were also informed about the possible initiation of infringement proceedings. So, therefore, we are now before you with this proposal and we are asking for it to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U570	Aivar Chef would like to ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U571	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I'm reading from here on behalf of the Minister of Finance what the regulations and everybody should come, but I'm not reading from here, like you said before, when there's free distribution. It is noted here that in the performance of the tasks entrusted to them by the agencies or bodies established under European Commission or European Union law in 2021 in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the goods or services acquired in Estonia may be refunded from the VAT paid on the imported goods. Is it like that for all goods, or is it like you said before, for those that are distributed free of charge?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U572	Thank you. This reading just came at such a fast pace that I couldn't even follow it all. However, it is only valid if the goods are purchased for free distribution or the services are intended for free delivery. For such services and goods, it shall enter into force retroactively, i.e. from 1 January 2021.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U573	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U574	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, Your good coalition partner has proposed to reduce VAT on energy sales. It's not in this bill right now. But are there any indications that, for example, this proposal could materialise between readings, or what is the current state of play? Why, for example, is it not in this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U575	Thank you. Are there any identities? There are no identities. And why isn't it? Because this point you referred to doesn't add up to the idea of this bill in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U576	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U577	Thank you. But let's hook it up. A honourable member of the Riigikogu asked a very important question as a rhetorical question. Perhaps you would send it to the Riigikogu, I can pass it on to its members if you send it to me with a small view of how such a VAT exemption would be distributed socially to the profit and loss account. I have been anxious to ask you what fresh data is, who actually pays this VAT and who would benefit from this advantage. Okay?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U578	Yeah. But a little lessening the anticipation that you would otherwise have until this written material arrived, it could be said that it would be the most prosperous and most consuming society. Perhaps in the sense of deciles, it is the most prosperous people with the highest income.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U579	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U580	Thank you. One more question. The armed forces of the Member States of the European Union can buy goods and services for official purposes at zero VAT rates, etc. Does this mean that in the state budget, in the case of the Ministry of Defence, it has been taken into account that VAT has also been purchased? Can we reduce the money that goes to the Ministry of Defence in the state budget, or is it considered that they can buy more goods for themselves?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U581	Thank you. The fact is that there is no real impact on the budget, as this exemption concerns the activities carried out within the framework of the European Union's common security and defence policy and such activities are, according to the Estonian Ministry of Defence itself, not foreseen in the near future, nor in looking a little further ahead. So in that sense, it has no effect at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U582	The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions for you. Thank you! Now by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Erki Savisaar. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U583	Thank you, Mr President. Good Riigikogu! The Committee on Finance prepared a draft of 460 first readings, including on 12 October. The draft was presented by Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus and accompanied by Mr Marek Uusküla, Head of the Department of Customs and Excise Policy, and Aet Külasalu, Head Specialist of the same department. There were some questions in the Commission that sounded in this Chamber and received the same answer, i.e. the answer was that the budgetary impact in the event of transposition of this directive is essentially lacking. As a result of this brief discussion, the Commission reached a consensus that it could conclude the first reading of this draft and set 10 working days for the amendments, i.e. 3 November at 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U584	Heiki Hepner, please, can ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U585	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I will ask the same question that I actually asked the Minister. The subject of value added tax (VAT) for energy carriers. Did this matter in any way run through the committee meeting and when it ran, what moods prevail? Or if he didn't, why didn't he?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U586	Thank you. It did not pass the Commission meeting because the Commission focused on the content of the 460 draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U587	No further questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. That's not what I want, I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading be closed. We have completed the first reading of Bill 460. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 3 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U588	Our ninth item today is the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuels 461. Please, Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U589	Thank you, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! We have unnoticedly reached today's last draft to be presented by the Ministry of Finance. You have before you a proposal to amend two laws. Both have the same objective: that we do not increase price pressure. The proposal is to amend the law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity so that excise duty increases will not take place next year. We would introduce the principle of flat-rate recovery for excise duties on fuel and electricity, so that excise duties would rise to pre-crisis levels, not in one year, but in four years, flat. According to the proposal, the rates of excise duty temporarily reduced will apply not until 30 April of the following year, but until 30 April of the following year, after which there will be a return to pre-crisis levels over four years. It is reasonable and necessary for consumers to really be able to adapt to the price increase in good time, both for businesses and for private consumers. Under this proposal, we are also amending the law on special labelling of liquid fuel to extend the right of companies authorised to use special fuel in mining activities. This is the right granted to those undertakings between 1 July of the previous year and 30 April of the following year. This period is proposed to be extended by one year, i.e. until 30 April 2023. Thank you. I would, of course, ask everyone to support this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U590	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U591	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, First of all, I would like to thank you for defending about the same bill that I handed over in April by the Isamaa Group in the Riigikogu. But I have a question. I very much welcome this bill. But if this is a transitional period, was there also a debate that perhaps some excise duties were too high that if, on May 1, 2023, they were going to rise 25% of the goods, then perhaps not everyone should rise in this way? If we look at the excise of our neighbours at the moment, we were still, in most of them, a head higher than the others.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U592	Thank you. I guess that's what we have to do to monitor our neighbors' excise duties anyway. This has to be borne in mind as a result of the prevention of border trade. But we're still talking about a really flat recovery. If this recovery were to take place with a one-year leap, the situation would certainly be different, but we are talking about a change in the years 2023, 2024, 2025 and 2026. It is true that, at this point in time, we need to look at the situation with excise duties in neighbouring countries. But the current prognosis does say that such a gradual rise in flatness does not create the risk of border trade that might otherwise arise.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U593	No further questions. Thank you! Erki Savisaar once again provides the report of the Monetary Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U594	Thank you, Mr President. Good Riigikogu! The Committee on Finance prepared a draft of 461 for the first reading, including on 12 October. During the meeting, Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus gave an overview of the draft and was accompanied by Mr Marek Uusküla, Head of the Department of Customs and Excise Policy, and Lauri Lelumees, Head of the same department. Members of the Commission had some questions. The first question was whether, in addition to such a volume-based excise duty, the environmental impact of different fuels is to be taken into account and to encourage the use of more environmentally friendly fuels in this way. We learned that discussions on this subject are taking place at European level and we want to wait for them to arrive in Europe before they can be incorporated into Estonian legislation. There was also a question of whether the Ministry had predicted the risk if inflation did not fall and it turned out that such a forecast had not been planned. Nevertheless, the Commission reached a consensus that the first reading of this draft could be completed and that the deadline for amendments would be 10 working days, i.e. 5.15 p.m. on 3 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U595	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U596	Good manager! Good chairman of the committee! What do you think, Erki, in the spring we finished the first reading of a similar draft, could we combine these two drafts in the committee, because the content is practically the same?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U597	Thank you. We must discuss this in the Commission. While the content is slightly different, it is not only a question of prolonging these temporary falls for one year, but also of making this rise smoother. So let's discuss how we proceed procedurally with this second draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U598	No further questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. Aivar Kokk will have the floor on behalf of the Isamaa Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U599	Good manager! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am extremely pleased with today's coalition. This bill already contains several drafts that take into account the proposals made by the Fatherland. In April, we came up with this draft so that the [removal] excise duty could be postponed for a year. When new Riigikogu elections arrive and the new composition sits in this Chamber, decisions can be made. I thank the Minister, who also said very clearly in his reply that border trade must be monitored. Although there is a 25% increase in excise duty [as foreseen] each year from 1 May 2023, it is clear that excise duties in Estonia were higher than those of the neighbours in the past and there is no point in bringing border trade back, because once the rake has taken place, there is no point in doing so for the second time. I believe that the procedure for this draft will also go quickly in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and in this Chamber, because perhaps there are few in this Chamber who do not support it. I know that a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs says that this may not be the best draft, but the Fatherland Party will definitely support the draft. I hope that these two drafts could be put together so that there would be a friendly opposition and coalition together, as is often the case at local government level, also in the Riigikogu. I thank the Minister, sincerely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U600	On behalf of the Reform Party Group, Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U601	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, Today, we have had quite a few drafts here relating to next year's state budget, so is this. If you remember, the state budget for which the first reading ended today is based on the economic forecast. This forecast was made a long time ago, essentially in August. As foreseen by the current regime, we have an institution such as the Fiscal Council and the Fiscal Council, which assessed the economic forecast and warned against quite a number of risks. After the forecast has been completed and the budget has ended at first reading, it can be said that some risks have increased rather than decreased. One risk is certainly linked to the increase in energy prices and the resulting pressure on consumer prices and, in turn, to the production inputs of companies. Secondly, while the economy has recovered faster than expected, recovery has been uneven in many sectors of the economy and many sectors have not yet reached pre-crisis levels. Consequently, it is also not advisable to give additional impetus to price increases affecting these vulnerable sectors in the context of inflation. Consequently, this draft provides for an extension of the fall in excise duties on electricity and excise duties on certain fuels during the previous year and for a recovery of excise duties to the pre-crisis level during the four years following that. Let's see, in the explanatory memorandum to the draft prepared by the Ministry of Finance, even the forecast price for diesel is already higher for next year. If you look at the stock market, you'll see that the price of crude oil on the New York Stock Exchange has risen to $83 a barrel today. Natural gas prices have also increased six times in a year, to quite extreme levels. This affects both domestic gas fuel owners and gas-intensive companies, such as farmers. In any case, for domestic customers using gas heating, it will be pretty difficult to survive the coming winter and consumers will be expected to have four or five times the cost of gas. Oh, yes, the latest data on inflation came today. They show that the price increase continued in September. Inflation in the euro area rose to 3.4% on an annual basis, largely above the European Central Bank's 2% inflation target. This rapid inflation has not been seen in the euro area for a very long time. Estonian inflation is among the highest in the euro area, reaching 6.4% in September on a yearly basis. As a result, the objectives of this draft are fully justified. The Reform Party Group will certainly support this draft. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-20_U602	The political groups have no more requests to speak, so I will close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 461. We're done with the first reading. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 3 November. Not only have we passed all the drafts of the Ministry of Finance, but the entire agenda today. I wish you a lovely evening. I'll see you tomorrow. The sitting is adjourned.
