ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U1	Honourable fellows! Good Riigikogu! We will begin the Monday session of the 15th working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. I would like to ask Mrs Heili Tõnisson, representative of the Government of the Republic, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U2	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Commercial Code and the Accounting Act (digital solutions in companies). In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Justice in the proceedings of the draft law. And second, the bill to amend the building code. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. The drafts have been transmitted electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U3	Thank you. Any more calls? There's no more calls. On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts, and the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing in accordance with the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act. Good colleagues, we're conducting a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U4	81 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 20 missing. Now we are moving on to the adoption of the agenda and we are starting to prepare for this vote. Can we go to the vote? I am voting on the approval of the agenda for the 15th working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U5	With the result of 84, there is no one against and one abstention has confirmed the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U6	Let us now go to the agenda. The first item is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Urmas Reinsalu, Mikhail Lotman, Sven Sester, Helir-Valdor Seeder and Tarmo Kruusimäe on 5 April 2021 for the organisation of vaccination. It's number 65. The Minister of Health and Labour, Tanel Kiik, will answer that question. First of all, I ask for the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, Urmas Reinsalu, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U7	Good Riigikogu! Dear members of the government and good Minister of Health! An inquiry into the organisation of vaccination is necessary in order to get an overview at Parliament level of the current state of play of our policy on the acquisition of vaccines and how many vaccines we have in our reserves. Secondly, it is extremely important to clarify the issue of responsibility for vaccination. As we know, the Ministry of Social Affairs has appointed a separate project manager to establish the chain of command and responsibility for the organisation of vaccination. And thirdly, it is necessary to have a clear overview of Estonia's current vaccination plan in terms of population and volume. In addition to the questions raised in the written text of the inquiry, I hope that, since the questioning is already one and a half months old, the Minister for Health and Labour will also present his vision of the most acute problems associated with vaccination. I would give him the opportunity to do so in Parliament's chair. On behalf of the Government, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health and Labour made a promise to the Special Committee on State Budget Control that by 9 May 9th, 80% of people over 80 years of age must have been vaccinated in Estonia. Today, we see that neither men nor women in groups have achieved this goal. Moreover, if we take, for example, the county of Ida-Virumaa, with the lowest age of vaccination, there is only 30.7% of people vaccinated compared to this 80% target, which the government set as a target a week and a half ago. The situation with regard to the vaccination of the elderly is unsatisfactory compared to what the government is aiming for. I hope that the Minister for Health and Labour will give an overview of what the government is planning to do in order to increase this pace. The second round of questions relates to the question I hope that the Minister for Health and Labour in his reply will also have to do with the vaccination certificate. In the view of the government, what is the status attributed to the vaccination certificate at national level in terms of different rights or reliefs? As we know, we already have a six-digit number of vaccinees in Estonia and need to be clarified in this government policy. And in a symmetrical way, the issue of the rights granted by the vaccination certificate in other countries, both throughout the European Union and in our region above all, is an important issue. What steps has the government taken to ensure that the Estonian vaccination certificate gives our people who have been vaccinated the right to move across borders without further restrictions? And thirdly, it is an extremely important circle of topics concerning the prohibition of entry into Finland. In my opinion, vaccination could also be used as a confidence measure. The Estonian state would declare that it is carrying out vaccination without stretching and also by temporary workers who are currently trapped either in Finland or in Estonia. The Estonian state is conducting this, and this could be a confidence measure to enable these people to move across borders so that this crisis situation can be resolved. I would also like the reply of the Minister for Health and Labour, along with other respondents, on the position of Estonia in the case of vaccines in the framework of the WTO Agreement on the implementation of compulsory licences provided for in the WTO Charter. This does not concern the withdrawal of the copyright of vaccines, as proposed by the President of the United States, Joe Biden, but the implementation of a special procedure in the exceptional circumstances foreseen by the WTO itself. I hope that the Minister for Health and Labour will provide a compact answer to this complex of issues that are extremely important in terms of the functioning of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U8	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Health and Labour of the Riigikogu, Tanel Kiige, to answer this question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U9	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Good heirs! These issues, on which quite a number of questions have been sent, are indeed very important. I will answer them in turn, and later I will be open to a wider debate. The first question: they want to know how much vaccine Estonia has ordered, what the quantities are and what the ordering times have been. Well, they're ordered in different periods of time. As we know, we started negotiations more than a year ago on participation in the joint procurement of the European Union in the spring, and then gradually during the summer and autumn, these vaccine agreements have reached the Government of the Republic, some of them also during the new government, when we are talking about additional agreements, additional doses and other such quantities. But now, by vaccine manufacturers. Estonia, like other countries, participates in the joint procurement process of COVID-19 vaccines, which has concluded agreements with AstraZeneca, Janssen Pharmaceutica NV, CureVac, Moderna and Pfizer/BioNTech and Sanofi. It is important to note that CureVac and Sanofi have not yet reached a marketing authorisation. Speaking of quantities, AstraZenecalt is contracted to receive 1.33 million doses. Originally, this contract also included the possibility of obtaining additional doses. This possibility of additional doses has not been discussed at European Union level, as there was a direct concern about the implementation of this basic agreement. We have purchased 300000 doses from Janssen, from CureVac 659383, this is a pro rata calculation by the number of our population, from Moderna 244467 and Pfizer/BioNTech, in fact, a total of 1246960 doses, both in the main contract and in the additional contracts. I would point out that these are orders this year. When we talk about the future, we'll get there. Currently, the agreement with Pfizer/BioNTech for a new period is currently under negotiation or, rather, in anticipation of feedback from EU countries. As regards the agreements this year, the distribution of vaccine doses between Member States has not yet been decided on in the case of the agreement with Sanofi. And there is also an agreement that participation or non-participation and dose volume can be decided at a later stage when the manufacturer has reached a marketing authorisation. He's not now. It is a protein-based vaccine. No protein-based vaccine has yet been authorised, so no delivery of the vaccine is expected in the near future. However, we may still be able to enter into a contract with the Novavanix vaccine manufacturer, which is also a protein-based vaccine, as well as with Valneva. This procurement was added later. With the current situation, the draft contracts are still being drafted and it is now known that in the case of Valneva, this will not fit into the framework of a common procurement procedure, but will be an additional possibility for Member States to acquire a vaccine from there. For all delivery times and quantities, it is, I think, more reasonable to reply in writing if you wish. Delivery schedules are constantly changing. You can give examples of this week. We expect the size of 42000 Pfizer/BioNTech, 8400 Moderna and 12,000 AstraZeneca doses. But these volumes have really fluctuated, especially in the case of AstraZeneca, where the number has fluctuated from zero to 70,000 doses in one week. In the case of Pfizer/BioNTech, we see a clear ascent phase: this week and next week we expect 40000 doses in the order of 55000 doses per week starting on 31 May. Moderna and Janssen are somewhat more modest, in the order of 8000 to 12000 doses in different weeks. It also asked how many vaccines Estonia had been able to purchase with main offers and additional offers. The quantities and establishments shall be requested. Here the honest answer is that in theory Estonia has been able to buy billions of doses. Basically, it has been possible to say that we want everything in the contract. This would, of course, require all other countries of the European Union to give up their doses. So the majority of the countries in real life did as Estonia did: ordered vaccines on the basis of the so-called pro rata, i.e. on the basis of the number of people in the main contracts. But with certain special features. In the case of AstraZeneca, we decided to buy a 1.5-fold coefficient. It was originally a vaccine that seemed to be the first to enter the market and had a reasonable price-quality ratio. So the government considered it necessary to acquire it further. And all in all, it has helped us move forward with this faster vaccination. From Janssen Pharmaceutica we bought 1/2 of the maximum pro rata, or 300,000 doses, although it would have been possible to buy 600,000. However, Janssen Pharmaceutica was known to obtain a marketing authorisation well later than the first vaccine manufacturers. From CureVac, as I pointed out, we bought doses of the basic contract section, which is 659000 and a little bit more. In the case of CureVac, it is also possible to have an additional contract, but it has not yet been discussed as a marketing authorisation has not been reached. It is probably not justified to book additional doses at the moment, as deliveries of the basic contract have not started. In the case of Moderna, Estonia acquired 234000 doses within the framework of the basic contract, as I indicated. And in the extra contract just to leave our foot between the door, we took a symbolic amount of 10,000 doses. This delivery will come in the second half of the year, which will not affect the current vaccination. But hypothetically, if it turns out that at the end of the year we need additional vaccines, then it is possible to buy more vaccines from there. That is why we made such a fundamental decision, and, similarly, a number of other countries also made a commitment to be included in the additional agreement. The most complicated mathematics is with Pfizer/BionTech, but I'll talk about it in a row. According to the basic contracts, we took a little bit of pro rata: 586000 was offered, 603876 doses were taken, as well as additional volumes, i.e. additional doses from the basic agreement. The additional contract, together with its additional doses, is four different so-called entries. Of these three, there are 643804 doses in total. Perhaps a total of Pfizer/BionTech's main contract and additional doses and additional doses of the basic contract, so a total of four different contracts, will give us 1,246 million doses and a further 960. That's 1246960 doses. Pfizer/BioNTech is the first producer to reach a separate contract for a new period when we talk about the need for a booster vaccination in 2022 and 2023. It was last Thursday that the Government of the Republic decided to join this additional agreement, the new period agreement, in which we apply for a pro rata quantity. This means an additional 2.61 million doses of vaccine, which is basically enough to vaccinate the entire Estonian population in two doses. In fact, we do not know yet how great this need will be, how great this volume will be, but given the COVID-19 pandemic course and the fact that the second wave came greater than the first, it seemed reasonable rather to be prepared and to acquire enough vaccines to not regret after. In addition to this vaccine mathematics, which has already been written enough, we really can, as I referred to, get the vaccine from Sanofi, Valnevalt and Novax. It is theoretically possible that there will be more vaccine manufacturers if their contracts are reached. The question was how many vaccines Estonia has applied for in the framework of European procurement. I have already answered part of this question. Here, the questions overlap a little. We've bought 643804 plus 10,000 doses in extra doses from Pfizer and Moderna. And it's possible to acquire more if the need arises. And as I pointed out, the agreement for the new period of Pfizer/BioNTech has been added in the meantime. In the process of joint procurement by the European Union, we have individually requested accelerated doses in the event of a higher risk of infection. As you will remember, there was a period when Estonia's infection rates were very high and when it was critically necessary to protect older people more quickly. Many Member States had long negotiations with the European Commission. When vaccine doses from Pfizer/BioNTech were brought forward from the fourth quarter to the second quarter, Estonia received more vaccines in proportion to most other countries in the European Union. Let's just say that if there were 10 million doses, the volume of Estonia should have been around 30,000, but in fact we received 62000 doses of vaccine in the second quarter, which gave us an additional chance to move forward at a faster pace with vaccination. In addition, we have requested further supplies of vaccine from AstraZenecalt and Janssen at a somewhat faster pace to cover either the need for a second dose or to allow more initial doses. In the case of AstraZeneca, we are talking about 80,000 doses, in the case of Janssen, 50,000 doses. And this opportunity arose because certain Member States gave up the use of these vaccines and this enabled others to order these vaccines more quickly. With other countries, we have, above all, worked together in the form of certain joint returns. We have also requested that if some countries left during the initial period, when Estonia had a high infection level, with the AsrtaZeneca vaccine, we would be able to offset them, but at that point the Member States were not yet ready to give up their doses. To date, we are in a situation where AstraZeneca's vaccine deliveries are large enough and the stock is large enough, so we have a 50+ age group covered and a second dose is also available in the country. Businesses were also asked about. The direct communication with several vaccine manufacturers shall be carried out in particular by the exchange of information necessary to specify delivery schedules. Separate contracts, as we know, do not allow joint procurement by the European Union to be concluded with vaccine manufacturers participating in their joint procurement. This is a practice that has been followed by all the Member States of the European Union. So we have acquired vaccines precisely through the joint procurement of the European Union. This principle was endorsed by the previous Government of the Republic and I think it has also been the right choice. We have not entered into joint non-procurement agreements for the purchase of vaccines. There is a question of Estonia's proposals for the distribution of vaccines within the framework of European Union procurement. Estonia participates in the process of joint procurement of vaccines, as part of a steering committee with other countries, which discusses distribution plans and new agreements, as well as organisational issues. Of course that's where we're on board all the time. When reference is made to the more symbolic things in which we have spoken separately, we have made appeals both at Prime Ministers level and at Health Ministers level in January and March. We have also written separately to the European Commissioner on Pfizer/BioNTech doses, and we have also made a joint return on 15 January with the Nordic and Baltic countries. This was the only period in which we had serious concerns about the delivery of Pfizer/BioNTech, as deliveries were reduced. We wanted to make sure they were restored as soon as possible, and in fact they were restored. The volumes have grown now, as we know. So, above all, we have been concerned precisely in the context of keeping to the promised delivery schedule so that the countries can receive vaccines at a rapid pace, at an acceptable rate. The issue is also about vaccination and responsibility in Estonia. The management and organisation of vaccination is primarily within the domain of the Ministry of Social Affairs. Of course, the whole government is thinking along the lines of ministries, local authorities, the private sector, etc. The aim of the government is to gradually allow free home vaccination for all those who wish in May. We're on this schedule. The possibility of registering for vaccination is gradually open. Tonight it will open to the latest age groups. But we have also repeatedly stressed that the vaccine person will receive the first injection in May and June. And a second shot will be given in the summer months. So it's gonna take a little longer. But in the main, it can be said that during the second quarter, any person who wishes to receive a second injection during the first protection and during the summer months. Here, in particular, I would stress a very important point: the second vaccine injection must also be done. I hope that, in the summer months, there will be no such false confidence that the pandemic is over, and people will not leave you without a second injection of protection lightly. In order to manage vaccination, a working group on the vaccination strategy has been set up to deal with the long-term perspective. It's run by the Deputy Secretary General of the Health Area. There is also a task force on the organisation of vaccination, led by Project Manager Marek Seer, whose main task is, in particular, the organisation of operational vaccination in the second and third quarters of 2021. His job at the moment is to provide primary protection, the first and second injection, especially for all residents. And when you think about autumn, you have to plan separately whether to continue with the same work organisation or make adjustments according to the latest knowledge. The tasks and tasks of the Vaccination Strategy Group are all available in the public COVID-19 vaccination plan. The vaccination plan was also asked for groups and volumes of persons. From the beginning, one focus group has been health care workers and people working in health institutions, about 30,000 people, the other group is the workers and residents of care institutions, about 25,000 people. The vaccination of both of them, I think, was critical that during the very rapid spread of the virus, we were able to cope in hospitals and now to return to significantly lower numbers. Our few positives at the top of the pandemic in March-April were that we had been largely vaccinated by this time by health care workers and residents of nursing homes. A separate large group are all people over 70 years of age and people with a certain diagnosis who would have a very serious illness. They are in the order of 370000 people, about half of whom are 70+ and the other half are people with various diagnoses aged 16 to 69. The additional target group shall be frontier workers with a higher risk of infection, providers of vital services in the order of 150000. All vaccination objectives and principles are equally available in the vaccination plan. At the moment, I cannot read them all to you in time. The goal really is that by the end of the summer, or autumn, 70% of the adult population will already be covered by two doses of vaccine. This certainly requires a lot of work, because we see that we have age groups where we have reached this level in most counties, but there are still quite a few counties, as Mr Reinsalu pointed out, where this level needs to be raised both among the elderly and among the younger. But, of course, vaccination must now be continued, especially for those under the age of 50, precisely to ensure a higher level of coverage in society as a whole. The last question is whether Estonia supports the implementation of compulsory licences under the WTO Agreement so that vaccines can be produced as much as possible in different pharmaceutical companies. I would say that the main concern about the lack of vaccine is not so much about intellectual property, but precisely about production capacity and production capacity. This is a major problem and a challenge both in Europe and elsewhere. The main thing here is the functioning of global supply chains, cooperation between producers, etc. I think it is also important to discuss this issue. It is spoken at European level, it is spoken on a proposal from the United States. It is important to find out what these pragmatic proposals are and how to ensure the supply of vaccines not only in Europe but worldwide. Thank you! I'm out of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U10	Minister, there are also questions for you. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U11	Thank you. No, I didn't propose to the Americans, I stressed the specificity of my proposal. I worked on the version of the proposal concerning the WTO Agreement. And what is the position of the government: does the government support or not? You say there are discussions, but what are we discussing at the table? Are we gonna shut up about it being safe or say "no" or say "yes"? I'm waiting for an answer. And the second question or point of attention relates to the fact that, as we did today in our conversation, older people want to vaccinate. It is not a matter of cowardice or hesitation to vaccinate, but there are different reasons, both logistical and information, that they cannot vaccinate, those over 80-year-olds. What are the concrete steps if the government has failed this anniversary of 9 May? What are the concrete steps to make sure that the situation is rapidly changing in a more positive direction in terms of logistical information and that people also have the opportunity to be vaccinated at transport or home? What will change from that date when, unfortunately, that deadline has passed and run through the bar?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U12	Thank you. Let's start with the last one, perhaps the elderly. Raising older people's coverage is a process that must be continued, as I have pointed out, also in the summer months. If we look at 70+ coverage now, we're at 65%. I wouldn't say it's a bad figure, it's still two-thirds. And we have to take into account that there are people who have been sick, who have not yet been vaccinated today, but who also have some protection. Their vaccination is recommended by the National Commission in the sixth month after the disease, in fact it is not necessary to rush it. These numbers will certainly grow when these people are also vaccinated, who have suffered from the disease. The target is 70 percent and above. And we've actually reached this level in most counties, more than two thirds of counties. There are some counties where more work needs to be done, bigger of them are Harjumaa and Ida-Virumaa. I'm sure this job will continue. The possibility of vaccination for the elderly continues to be available in family doctor centres, and vaccinations are also carried out at home. Similarly, a special campaign has been carried out in Ida-Virumaa, where it is possible to vaccinate both workers and their family members at workplaces. In the past, according to the 1 + 1 principle, young people and older people had to come together for vaccinations. This work is ongoing, with separate working lines for the Vaccinating Task Force. One is the vaccination side of the elderly, but in recent days, the most attention has been paid to vaccination of the wider population. But there are also a number of other sub-works such as home vaccination, such as Ida-Viru County issues. They're actually very much connected. In order to increase older people's coverage, regions with lower levels of vaccination and social groups such as those with mobility difficulties, many of whom have not yet received vaccinations, need to be addressed. They are gradually reached by family sisters.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U13	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U14	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! I am sincerely pleased that we can discuss these matters here in this format, because this Wednesday Question Time does not deserve the name of Question Time or Question Time. Now it has taken a good long time for this inquiry to be made. In the meantime, I have been approached by teachers of children with special needs. Last time there was a problem that these institutions did not close at the right time, and now they have a problem that they consider themselves to be frontier workers. Would they be able to get vaccinated? I'm saying it's been so long, maybe you have more information on whether or not they've already been vaccinated. Are you aware of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U15	Thank you. A very important question. We're moving by so-called ghosts. For people who are either officially carers or special caretakers in different institutions, vaccination is guaranteed through the employer. For example, carers who have officially registered in local governments have been mapped through local authorities and have also been given priority vaccination options. It is now gradually expanding to others. Those people who do not have the status of an informal care provider but who, in essence, care for an elderly family member every day or for other reasons with a weaker health, have long been able to contact their family doctor and ask for vaccination. Very much has actually been done. This guide has been sent to family doctors to protect both these people and their carers. And now we're doing more and more vaccinations at home. The principle of home vaccination is that if we take Janssen's vaccine to vaccinate an elderly person who has family members at home who are not vaccinated, then they too will be given an on-site vaccination. Janssen is known to deliver 5 doses per vial, with 5 doses per vial. All this logistics has already been done to get home, and it makes perfect sense to vaccinate these family members locally. But with all this, if there are any special requests, concerns, it makes sense either to address me directly, for example, by sending a letter, or to send it to the head of the vaccination task force, Marek Seer. I can also forward it myself if such a call is to be made through a member of the Riigikogu or a specific organisation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U16	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U17	Thank you. My question is about the vaccination certificates. The Prime Minister has said that this certificate does not confer any special rights and that people will not be categorized into special categories according to it in Estonia. So it's like there's nothing more. But has there been a discussion with the government and a clear view on whether private operators can apply certain restrictions on the basis of a certificate that, for example, only vaccinated people can come to my catering establishment or that theatre visitors have only been vaccinated, etc.? Will our legal space allow this or not? I have repeatedly asked for this and received very vague and different answers about how this certificate can be applied in Estonian society. I'm talking about our country today. Relations with other countries are a separate issue. Can you answer that? And second, a brief specific question. How many percent of teachers have been vaccinated? Can you tell me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U18	Thank you for your constructive questions. Let's start with the first one. At national level, the use of a vaccine certificate is possible for operators, but they must be prepared to justify why they made such a distinction when, for example, they said that only vaccinated people would be available to their event. Obviously, there may be people or social groups who challenge this decision and also demand entry. From the principle it is more a question for lawyers, not for the health sector. In particular, the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice and the Ministry of Justice have addressed this issue. It is precisely in our country's view that we have also agreed on the specific organisation of work carried out by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, headed by the Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology, Andres Sut, in order precisely to clarify the legal issues to which you referred. This is also due to the economic interest both in the cultural sector and in the economic sector, as well as, of course, in the Health Board and in the area of the Minister of Social Affairs, where there are important medical reasons. At the moment, no company has taken advantage of this opportunity, as far as I know, I do not have such information. Hypothetically, if someone does, in some ways a precedent will be created, and if necessary legal solutions will also arise. As far as the current restrictions are concerned, no government order provides for such a special right or speciality that these people are subject to different requirements of dispersal or masking. The government's order relates only to self-insulation obligations, both in close contact and as an incoming person from abroad. In a sense, however, in this view the first distinction was created as early as January. But it really doesn't concern domestic events. I myself consider it likely that during the summer months, requests for events with a higher than usual number of participants may arise. It is possible that the Government will allow or grant special authorisation by way of an earlier decision. For example, if a person or company wants to organise an event not for 1,000 people, but for 5,000 or 10,000, it is right if all participants have either been vaccinated or show a negative test, it is a rapid test or something else. Obviously, such uses will be possible. There is a special feature of some major events in France; Denmark has taken a somewhat bolder path, but this debate is really still going on in Estonia. And the answers have to be given here, I agree. However, it must also be taken into account that this must not lead to discrimination. A person is still considered to be vaccinated after two doses, after a certain period of time. So the majority of Estonians only reach this status in the middle of summer or in the second half of summer. Currently, the highest levels of coverage are among health care workers, the care community and the elderly, as well as the frontline workers. You asked about education. As far as I know, this proportion is about 60%. The Ministry of Education and Research has to ask for the exact number, but 60% of teachers have been vaccinated. Surely the goal is to raise this level as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U19	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U20	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I'm gonna keep asking around here, and I'm gonna touch on education, front-line workers. Once the teachers were on the front line, then they weren't, then they were. How did it develop, or how did these discussions go? Did it depend, for example, on the amount of vaccine? As you said in your introductory answers, it is crucial that we understand that it is important to get both doses when a particular vaccine requires it. There must be no misunderstanding that maybe you don't need another injection. Now you said the teachers have been vaccinated to 60%. Is that one or two shots? And how reasonable do you think the decision you made in the government is that from today everyone will be back in schools, even though the faculty has not been fully vaccinated?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U21	Thank you. I'll answer in a row. In the field of education, a number of so-called groups were made because there really was a great deal, more than 50,000 people: school teachers, kindergarten teachers, higher education, plus an education of interest. And started with schools and kindergartens and other places where physical contact is most needed, where it is more difficult to apply distance learning, as well as higher education and recreational education, which at the time were, as we know, limited. At the moment, progress has been made so that, first of all, vaccination is possible, and I have referred to it, school teachers and kindergarten teachers. In the case of higher education institutions, there have been so-called separate queues and it can be said that vaccinated people who carry out the practice or otherwise physically come into contact. The rest of the higher education staff, as well as the wider community, have been able to vaccinate themselves in general. Why these numbers changed was indeed that, originally, the age limit for the AstraZeneca vaccine was the other way around: in Estonia it was used to vaccinate people up to 70 years of age. Later, this age limit turned to 60 plus, then 50 plus. Due to the new data, the vaccine was temporarily no longer offered to younger frontier workers at the pace and volume envisaged by the original plan. Throughout this crisis, plans have constantly had to be redesigned, renewed, adapted. I can assure you that all this will happen in the coming months and in the coming years. In this view, the spirit must be prepared in good time to change information, to change knowledge and to improve knowledge, to specify intervals of different vaccines, uses, efficacy against strains, time of persistence of antibodies, etc. The second question was whether it was right to let the children return to contact training. The short answer is, yes, I think it was the right decision. We can see that Estonia's infection rates have fallen 5.5 times compared to the peak. We're from the infection level in mid-November and 400,000 people are protected by at least one vaccine dose. Corona virus is a very unpleasant virus, to say the least, but essentially a virus that has caused dangerous and serious health damage, both in Estonia and elsewhere in Europe, but it is subject to a certain logic. We are currently in a situation where there are half a million people vaccinated or affected in Estonia. We have also reached the summer period, where people spend more time in the sun in the fresh air, and then the risk of infection actually goes down. We can also see that the infection level is going down, that R has fallen. Last week showed it too. There were already quite a few reliefs, half the children had been in school for some time, the school break was over. But the last week brought a minus 18% reduction in infection rates despite all these reliefs. I've told you before, and I'm gonna stick to the fact that in the summertime, I'm likely to have a new wave of corona virus or an explosion on my head. At the moment, we need to focus on giving the best protection for the autumn period. The best protection must also be given to those who travel and come into contact with new, more dangerous strains of viruses. In any case, widespread vaccination of the population is essential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U22	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, On the last Friday, a meeting of the European Union Affairs Committee was held, to which the Foreign Minister, Mrs Liimets, had been invited to speak about the vaccination passports. There is a possibility that it will be given to those who have had the disease or have been vaccinated. A PCR test shall be used for the testing of the breakthrough. When I asked him to tell me, please, what is the number of reproduction cycles of this PCR test for testing, this very stupid story happened that he left his microphone open and asked the counsellors behind the screen what I'm about to say. So far, I haven't gotten an answer. I don't know what it is, I've tried four or five times to get that answer, there's no answer. The Deputy Director General of the Health Board won't tell me that number either. You are the smartest, fit the answer to me in one sentence: the number of reproduction cycles tested is...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U24	Thank you. In fact, it would certainly be more sensible to refer this question to the Health Board. Government, ministers do not decide on any test, the number of PCR or other reproduction cycles, the number of repetitions. This is decided by epidemiologists, health experts. It can also be at different levels in different hospitals, depending on the equipment on the ground. There are so-called high-speed PCRs, which are carried out by the conventional laboratory, and there are additional antigen tests. On the testing methodology, I suggest you send a written question that can be answered in writing and satisfy your curiosity in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U25	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U26	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Estonia has fallen below the EU average in relation to vaccine recipients. Several strange things came up last week that we have received vaccines in a much larger number than vaccinations have actually taken place. It was a very embarrassing case when it was announced that younger people can register themselves now, but in Estonia, as if in a leading digital state, there were hours and longer queues in the digital registration office, which is completely absurd. People couldn't even register. If we have talked to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance about all these issues, there are other issues, then the finger has always been pointed towards the previous government. You have also been a minister in the previous government. You don't have that excuse from the ceiling.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U27	Good questioner, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U28	I'm asking you, what's going on?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U29	Thank you. Lots of questions, well, I'll answer in a row. Firstly, different EU Member States ordered different doses of vaccines. That's an honest statement. There are countries, such as Malta and Denmark, and some others, who have bought either the basic contracts or the basic agreement plus additional agreements for their residents either by repeating or significantly more vaccine than is actually necessary. As a result, the rate of vaccination has been faster since the beginning. These include a number of European superpowers. I don't have this table right now, but in principle, Estonia has ordered vaccines in the same way with a multiple coating. But there are countries that have done so even more, knowingly buying them over, to donate, sell, or do something else with these vaccines. And these have really been largely the discussions and consultations that took place during the previous government period. We had to take into account, on the one hand, the needs of the population, the delivery schedules for vaccines and, of course, the financial aspects. In the meantime, information has changed, and some additional contracts that were supposed to come in the second half of the year have been brought forward. For example, this has been done with Pfizer/BioNTech. Fortunately, Estonia can also count on a certain amount of extra doses, just some countries can get more because they ordered an even larger amount of vaccine as a reserve. So there are a lot of reasons and places that need to be taken into account to compare the supply of vaccines to specific countries and also to see how many vaccines have been used by one or another country. In Estonia, this percentage is constantly at 80-90, as much of the deliveries have been used up. This figure may be higher on the day of arrival and varies according to the vaccines. For Pfizer/BioNTech, more than 90% of the doses reached in the country are normally injected by the end of the week and will only stop the need for the second dose of the following week. In the case of Moderna, as a rule, we are talking about the dose requirements for the next two weeks, because the delivery dates have fluctuated. In the case of AstraZeneca vaccine, there is the highest stock residue since it is offered in the 50+ age group, and as I referred to earlier, Estonia bought it with a factor of 1.5 and we have asked for our doses at an accelerated rate. So there are quite a few things to consider. As far as digital capabilities are concerned, I would say, on the contrary, that we have such a digital waiting list that shows a person the time at which they can access, how much there is before him, is a much better solution than telling people to come in the running order and see how many people get the vaccine and how many people are missing. This has actually been done by a number of countries, including our immediate neighbours. I think that this kind of digital waiting is much more convenient, much more digitally aware and reasonable than waiting in other ways. And I repeat the earlier message: vaccine deliveries increase every week, every month. No one's missing the vaccine. There is really no reason at present for those people who have no cause for health or work-related need for rapid vaccination. The vast majority of them have already received the possibility of vaccination when we are talking about risk groups, we are talking about frontline workers with a higher risk of infection. Rather, it makes sense to make this request the next week or the next week when new times gradually open. The number of people vaccinated every day is increasing and the demand for the first dose is automatically decreasing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U30	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U31	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. I will continue to ask about this discrimination. We are usually talking about giving special rights to vaccinated people. But right now people's fantasy is so lively that it has happened that some people signal that they don't want to serve vaccinated people. So all in all, this result could be both ways. How does the government come to view the rights of the private owner or operator to restrict the provision of their services to people, whether vaccinated or unvaccinated? And should this restriction be any different in terms of service sections? Do we have services that can't be restricted to people?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U32	Thank you for your question. We have discussed the rights of vaccinees and, in fact, the rights of Estonian residents in gaining access to different services. I certainly believe that there must be no discrimination. When we are talking about public services, it is health care, social work, education, and so on, access must be guaranteed to everyone in the same way. When we talk about opportunities for the private sector to choose their customers, in a sense, it can be said that this right is currently in place. Perhaps hypothetically: if the construction work was ordered, the construction company has the right to decide whether or not to accept and execute your order. The usual reasons are whether there is free time, whether there is an agreement on the price, but now there is a real need for vaccination. However, as I referred to earlier, the refusal must be very convincingly justified, explained. There may indeed be services in which an operator may assess that it is safer to serve vaccinated people, and therefore it makes some distinctions as to whether to ask for a negative test or other evidence from unvaccinated people. But this question is primarily for lawyers. Whether it is acceptable or not in accordance with the principles of national law and equal treatment, it may have to be assessed for each particular service, for each individual undertaking. As far as this reverse discrimination is concerned, yes, we can, of course, go to absurdity with it. Who does not want vaccinated people who do not want unvaccinated people and maybe there are still third and fourth categories of diseases added, different vaccines have been made and will continue to be done. I think we need to keep our senses here. The vaccine is a medicine. Vaccination helps to prevent a person from becoming more seriously ill, to protect him and his loved ones. In any case, there is certainly no justification for any discrimination against vaccinated people, nor can it be rationally argued. The majority of Estonian entrepreneurs will understand this hopefully. But as I pointed out earlier, the debate on what these rights and opportunities should be, in fact, continues. This is the area of MKM's administration to transport with other government agencies, ministries. As I said before, an alternative must always be created, for example, that an unvaccinated person can enter the event on the basis of a negative test certificate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U33	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U34	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Austet Minister! I've been vaccinated, and I got proof of it from my family's sister. It's kind of A4 format paper. I ask you, is this the vaccination certificate used in Estonia? If I can get this A4 paper on a plane to the cafeteria or maybe the Estonian state can cross itself and there is some kind of digital trail or proof that a person has been vaccinated!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U35	Thanks for asking. A new week in the Estonian country can be taken to the cafeteria without this proof if the requirement for diversification is met. But if you're serious, there's already a digital certificate. Estonia is one of the first countries to reach it, and it is possible for everyone to set up it on a patient portal. Tens of thousands of people have used this opportunity, and there's evidence from the QR code. This was done in cooperation with the company Guardtime. The debate is now that this specific Estonian certificate and similar certificates established by other countries would be centrally recognised in the framework of the European Union's green passport, that there would also be a uniform understanding of what are reliable vaccines, reliable vaccineers, or health authorities, and, of course, the rights or opportunities it offers, for example, the absence of self-insulation at entry and so on. So I suggest you look at this possibility on the patient portal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U36	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U37	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Well, you can't download it from the patient portal right now because there are 29,800 people in line right now. You replied that there were countries that have gone even worse, and in that I absolutely agree with you. It is certainly even worse to have a registration for vaccination, but it still does not exempt you from answering the question of why a more reasonable registration system was not set up, where there would be no such twitching and the general possibilities of the patient portal would still be in place today. The options are different, the different countries have used them. I have suggested that, for example, by the last number of personal identification numbers, it could have been distributed over the days by the number of people, while other countries have made use of other options. Why did you decide to make such a mindless urge?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U38	Thank you. If we're looking at the waiting lists for the vaccine, yes, they've really been longer at peaks than we'd like. But in most days since the gradual opening of vaccination last week, this waiting list has not really been very long. I have watched it myself many times, both in the evening and during the day, in fact, access has been guaranteed. Today, this interest is clearly heightened because it is known that new vaccination times will be opened at night, and people are waiting for this opportunity. In fact, we were communicating that at seven o'clock in the evening, those times would be uploaded once certain confirmations of vaccine deliveries had come in the meantime and health authorities had been able to open new vaccination periods accordingly. In itself, this great interest is, of course, positive. You could say it would be worse if we had a zero requester and vaccine times waiting. The aim is to increase coverage. The fact that we decided to open 16 to 49 age groups almost simultaneously, albeit at small intervals, was mainly due to the fact that people at higher risk in this age group, i.e. people with a certain diagnosis, had already been given the possibility of vaccination, while the rest of them are relatively small in medical terms. At the government level, there was a desire, and also, under the coalition agreement, a expectation that in May we would offer vaccination to the wider population. In some ways, there really is a waiting list. This is inevitable for such a choice. But I don't quite agree that this is such a tragic user experience. People can try peacefully in a week, even in two weeks. Vaccine deliveries are to be made, vaccine times are to be opened consecutively, and daily vaccinations are to be carried out. So we're moving towards a solution every day.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U39	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U40	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good minister! I have a question about the vaccine supply we have at the beginning of each week and, as I understand it, it increases at the beginning of each week. Every week we have a delivery, and at the beginning of each week we have a spare. At the beginning of this week, the size of the 140,000 doses that we won't inject during the week, and then next week we'll have a new batch. My question is: is it deliberately made that we always have some unnecessary inventory, or is it a question of logistical failure, or what is it? I've heard the Prime Minister and you say that it's not until Friday and sometimes Thursday that we get the vaccines, and that's why we won't be able to take advantage of them this weekend. But when they arrive at the end of the week, it makes sense to take advantage of them in the next week. If we know there's going to be a new amount, even if we take out the second dose, why do we keep such a big stock all the time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U41	Thank you. The answer is, like, longer than you might like, but I'm still gonna answer. Let's start with that every week really vaccines arrive on different days: some vaccines on Monday, some on Thursday, sometimes there are several deliveries per week and in the meantime there are no deliveries at all. A certain second dose cap must always be kept, because we cannot count on people who need to receive a second dose at week x to be delivered within this week. Inevitably, a certain amount is in reserve. I took out last night's status. As of last night, there were about 126000 unused doses of vaccine in Estonia, of which approximately 25000 were the second dose cap of Pfizer/BioNTech, which went out to health care institutions today. Another around 20000 are the Moderna dosage cover for the next two weeks, as the deliveries of Moderna have not been very certain. Janssen was more than we'd like, since we kept it at home for vaccination, now it's going to the vaccination centers. It had come in 14800 doses, used slightly over 1,000 doses. In terms of percentage, it is certainly significantly more than necessary, all the more so since there is no need for a second dose. Rather, the question is that it was originally intended for more injections at home, but since these supplies also improved and the schedule was presented in advance, we now dare to give it to hospitals, family medicine centres and other health establishments in general. The highest proportion of this 125000 doses of 126000 vaccine doses was approximately 70,000 doses of AstraZeneca vaccine last night. AstraZeneca vaccine is mainly used in the 50+ age group and about 65000 Estonians are waiting for a second dose. These are people who have been vaccinated in a single dose, such as a large part of the government and front-line workers. The time for their second dose will come in June. As I pointed out earlier, at some point, the vaccine will inevitably be left over. The AstraZeneca vaccine is likely to be the first among them, given its medical indication and use. And then the government has a question of what countries to sell it, donate it, otherwise give it away. It is certainly not possible or necessary to take advantage of all the vaccines that we have acquired and the number of doses of which, on the basis of contracts, amounts to millions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U42	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U43	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! How do you assess yourself throughout the Coronary period, i.e. from the spring of last year, in order to manage the acquisition of various protective equipment, the supply of vaccines, vaccination and all related activities? What grade would you give yourself in a five-ball system?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U44	Thank you for your question. I don't think I'll surprise you when I say I don't do that kind of self-esteem. It's never objective. However, it is always possible for other people to assess this either in elections or in various opinion polls and surveys, which have also been carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U45	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U46	[[Remote connection]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U47	Thank you. Very well-founded questions. Let's start from the beginning. For the different vaccines, basic antibody persistence studies were carried out for three months to six months. Really, originally the Government of the Republic.. it was still the previous government that decided that we would consider that a person has been vaccinated, within six months. In fact, we know that this effect is longer. Current studies have been carried out eight months after vaccination or later and show that antibody levels have not actually decreased. The National Expert Committee on Immunoprophylaxis has recommended that all of these immunologists, doctors, scientists there are now reasonable to consider a person to be "vaccinated without a time limit." When more recent data come, more recent studies showing when antibody levels start to decrease, you can set a time limit for how long from the second dose we consider a person to be vaccinated. And then it becomes clear whether this time will be different depending on what the vaccine person has received. At present, all vaccines have been treated uniformly. As far as the future is concerned, as I was referring to earlier, last Thursday we decided to join the Pfizer/BionTech agreement for the next period. Estonia will be able to purchase 2.6 million vaccine doses from there, the deliveries will start in December 2021 and will continue until the end of 2023, until the beginning of 2024. Basically, we are talking about vaccinations here in 2022 and 2023. Whether people need one additional dose of vaccine or two full courses again, no one knows today. Of course, it makes sense for health experts to hold this debate either way, but I think it is only reasonable to have a common practice throughout Europe. I cannot imagine very well that some European Union countries are going to vaccinate, I don't know, every six months, the second starts once a year or once every two years. How should residents view it? This is where the different national medicines agencies should sit down together and the European Medicines Agency should decide and propose a specific interval for further vaccination. All these questions should also be answered as to whether the interval depends on the vaccine, whether it depends on what the vaccine person gets, what happens to the victims, the infirmed plus vaccinees or the second order, first the vaccinees and then the victims. There are a lot of forward-looking questions here, for which exhaustive answers are definitely needed at the latest in the autumn. But for those people who have received the vaccine this year, there is currently no need for a booster vaccination. What might happen is that if there are very different strains that are not helped by the current vaccines, then, for example, in autumn and winter, there may be a need for the word "booster dose." There is no word for it in Estonian, but it is necessary to vaccinate with an extra dose. But it's a hypothesis, it's still a debate and debate. So there's nothing to worry about. The vaccine has been stocked, acquired for both this year and the following years, and we will definitely let you know when there is new information.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U48	One question can be asked in inquiries. So let's move on. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U49	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister! I have a very simple question. Some ambulance workers have reported that they will go to court because they are essentially required to have a compulsory vaccination. What is your opinion on the outcome of this trial? How can these people work until the judgment, and will this coercive vaccination be extended to all medical personnel throughout Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U50	Thank you. Once again, a very topical question. I will start with the fact that I will certainly not predict the outcome of the court and whether some initial solutions, defence mechanisms, etc. will be implemented. It's the law. As far as medical matters are concerned, I say that I personally understand the decision of Dr Adlas, the head of the Tallinn ambulance. Ambulance workers are inevitably exposed to very many people with very poor health. While nothing will ultimately help to eliminate this risk of infection, vaccination will certainly help to reduce it significantly. This decision is not arbitrary or arbitrary. Indeed, this was preceded by an in-depth analysis. I know there were meetings with the Labour Inspectorate, meetings and conversations with employees, including consideration of alternatives. Currently, around 5% of staff have not used vaccination. Some of them, as I understand it, go on parental leave, but some of them are likely to refuse to do so until the end. As far as the wider medical system is concerned, possible pros and cons must always be considered and analysed for a specific working environment. If a person works with infected patients or works in emergency care, intensive care, then there is a very high risk of infection. Another thing is that if he works elsewhere, all the medical staff will be on the front line, perhaps not with patients with such a critical condition. Then the infection risk is second, and the grounding options are other. It is also easier to reallocate work in a large hospital if necessary based on whether or not a person has been vaccinated. But I personally find it very difficult to read and hear about cases that have been in health care facilities when healthcare workers have infected patients or care workers have infected residents. After all, we are talking about patients with very mild health, nursing homes, cancer patients, and very elderly people who have suffered deaths. Such risks need to be mitigated and vaccination is one of the safest ways to do so. So in this view, I certainly consider these debates and debates to be necessary. However, such a decision at government level or at ministerial level that all medical personnel must be vaccinated, regardless of their position, regardless of the possibility of using alternatives, is not what I consider realistic or necessary in the current situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U51	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U52	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I hope that you will allow me, first of all, to make a small observation for the introduction. It was a bit surprising to look for a vaccination driver as a separate official or as a separate function. There are a lot of very competent authorities in your administration, and this is not a new function. The work is new. Maybe it's a sign that we should look at the efficiency of these institutions and see if they're okay with the staff. But I ask that there are three stages in this disease: prevention and prevention, so-called action and then recovery. Very little has been said about drugs. Anything new here?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U53	Thank you. I will answer the comment first. Absolutely: there are many institutions in the health field and they have clear roles to play. What we really wanted was the Health Board, which, in addition to the wider health protection, is currently also working on the 'epidemiological side' of development, the organisation of testing, self-insulation issues, the management of infectious risks, not overburdened. The alternative would have been to take this manager from the Health Insurance Fund, who also has a very large and wide area of responsibility, including in relation to the costs of COVID-19. Therefore, it really was the decision that I put on the table that we make a separate place for the project manager, whose team, however, is made up of the same institutions as you referred to, i.e. the people of the Health Board, the people of the Agency, the people of the Health Insurance Fund, the family doctors, the hospital managers. In the meantime, I have also read in the media as if very many new jobs were created. That's not true. One particular person, Marek Seer, former Acting Head of the University of Tartu Hospital, long-term head of the Southern Medical Staff and former person in the vaccination steering group, who was well aware of all these details, the functioning of the health system, is indeed the person who has been further employed to organise vaccination. As regards the second half of the question, i.e. medicines, Estonia has acquired Remdesivir, which is included in the list of medicines to be reimbursed by the Health Insurance Fund, the list of health services, and hospitals are able to purchase it for COVID-19 patients. To a certain extent, we have also acquired additional antibody cocktails. There have also been other offers from pharmaceutical companies. We have asked the Agency, on the one hand, to evaluate them, but on the other, we expect as uniform an approach as possible at European level, i.e. feedback from the European Medicines Agency, on how useful and prospective one or another candidate for a medicinal product is to be evaluated without a marketing authorisation. We are mainly talking about medicines that are generally based on antibodies, such as these antibody cocktails. In fact, it can be said that as a medical product or as a standard supplement, nasal spray is available from pharmacies, where antibodies are similarly those that should provide additional certainty and effect. The starting logic of the vaccines is that they must produce an antibody response in the body. It can be said that there is a great deal of research going on in this area. There are also candidates for medicines, but there are not many such medicines available with a marketing authorisation easily and at an adequate price. The only widely used elsewhere in the world and in Europe, as well as in Estonia, is the same Remdesivir that we have been using and acquiring for some time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U54	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U55	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. My question comes from your previous answer. It was said that vaccination should be carried out because medical staff would not infect patients because of the danger. Just to figure it out, I'll check. I understand from the information that has been published that vaccination does not mean that a person who has been vaccinated, including a medical professional, cannot transmit the virus. Am I getting something wrong? I understand that vaccination should rather be carried out in order that the potential sufferer after vaccination suffers from this disease, i.e. more easily. But right now, you've given the impression that if you've been vaccinated by a medical professional, she won't infect the patient. Did I get something wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U56	Thank you for your question. Once again, a well-founded question. When we talk about the start of vaccination, it was really and can also be said today that the primary use of the vaccine and the aim of preventing the need for serious hospital care, serious health damage, deaths, saving lives. In addition, more studies have been carried out in the meantime, which also show that vaccinated people are less likely to transmit the infection, even if they themselves are expected to become COVID-19 positive for a short period of time. The probability that they infect someone is 50% or even less, according to various studies, depending also on how long they suffer from the disease in a moderate way. These studies are limited, they are still being carried out. And obviously, it's much more difficult to determine how much a vaccinated person infects other people. It's not very simple mathematics. As a general rule, such tests are not carried out intentionally in an attempt to induce an infection, but in the wider population and over a longer period of time. So it can be said that knowledge has now been gradually increased and it is clear that vaccination not only saves lives and keeps the burden of hospital care normal, but also reduces the likelihood that a vaccinated person might infect others. Hospital work is both important in itself. The important thing is that a person does not infect others, as well as that the head of a hospital or the head of a specific health establishment can count on all his employees and he knows that he does not have any monster. It is important that we do not have the situation that we saw in Estonia in the spring and autumn, and we also saw in the nearby countries, where the period of the pandemic was a considerable number of health workers themselves sick, they had to be at home, also in close contact with themselves in isolation. As a result, the continuity of hospitals was seriously affected. In Estonia somewhat less, as the peak of our infection ended up in a period where most health professionals had been vaccinated. But there have also been other situations in our neighbouring countries, also in the Baltic countries, which significantly aggravated the evolution of the epidemic.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U57	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U58	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister for Health and Labour, When you answered Mr Helme's question, you did not answer one small part. Maybe you'd like to comment on that too. This was the case that, if today's vaccinated people need a new injection, it will be eight months or a year later, whether the government has been talking about whether it is paid or not. If we're talking about this, maybe you'll open it. My question, however, concerns the elderly, and precisely their vaccination. We know that this inquiry has been filed more than a month ago. There were then very different ages 70+ and 80+ vaccinations across Estonia. What's the situation today? And where can we get more accurate data on the difference between regions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U59	Thank you. If I may, I will start with this Moonika Helme question, which has indeed not been answered. The question was whether the vaccination would be free of charge in the future, i.e. who will pay for this vaccination course or the additional injection. Let me put it this way: we have discussed this briefly in the government, not thoroughly. The previous government decided that vaccination would in any case be free of charge this year. For the following years, the question was whether to do so for risk groups or on a different basis. As I have pointed out before, this crisis is so dynamic that I believe that, in the current situation, the main question is whether the COVID-19 pandemic will continue. And if this continues, it is my view that vaccination must continue to be available free of charge, including an additional dose. Otherwise, we will not be able to stop the pandemic, we will not be able to prevent the risk of infection on a large scale, we will not be able to prevent the burden of hospital treatment and death. If this pandemic disappears, goes away and we see, for example, that it will be a future exotic disease in individual countries, then there is another situation. Then it can really be said that this vaccination is a person's own cost, but also then it should be considered whether risk groups should not receive free vaccination, even in this case, as people aged 65+ are currently receiving influenza vaccination, including those living in nursing homes from autumn onwards. That is the current answer. This issue certainly needs to be considered and clarified. Just as I said before, at the latest in the autumn, there is a need for clarity on what vaccination will be like in the coming years. As regards the question you have asked about the elderly, there are 11 counties across Estonia where over 70% of the 70+ age group has been vaccinated. This figure is somewhat higher in almost all counties between 70 and 79 years of age than in the 80+ target group. The 80+ age group tends to be less mobile and more difficult to access in terms of contacts, so that work needs to be continued separately. This is done by family doctors-family nurses who are already using very much home vaccination. These injections are given by nurses and other healthcare providers. It can be clearly said across counties that, in order to increase coverage in general, the fastest steps are needed to move forward in Ida-Virumaa, where specific measures have also been used. There is a possibility of vaccination at workplaces and a possibility of home vaccination, a higher amount of vaccine has been sent and a more advanced use of Moderna vaccine than Pfizer/BioNTech has been proposed. This is not because it is better or worse, but because the Moderna vaccine stays somewhat longer in the normal refrigerator, i.e. 30 days compared to the five days of Pfizer/BioNTech, which is the main period of use. It must be possible to use the vaccine flexibly to reach more people. This work must be continued. Ida-Viru County figures certainly cannot be satisfied, but in all other counties we still see coverage of 60%, 70% or even higher in the 70-79 range and 80+ age group, some counties already have over 80% coverage in certain age groups. Hiiumaa is a record county, with a 70-79 range of 92.3% and 78.8% in the 80+ age group. These figures can be consulted more closely on the koronakaard.ee website, which contains information on the number of people vaccinated, the number of people who have received the vaccine in different areas with the precision of the local government.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U60	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? I'm opening negotiations. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U61	Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, We were hoping to get a clear response to these questions, which will change so that we can achieve faster vaccine protection for the 80+ age group. That was actually a missed answer today. The Minister of Health said that we must continue as before, but, as before, unfortunately, if we compare the level achieved in the Nordic countries in our region, this rate does not satisfy us. This is not about the lack of access to vaccines. We can vaccinate an elderly group of 80+s. It is not the case that a large proportion of these people hesitate to receive the vaccine. This was also acknowledged by the Minister of Health himself in the Commission today, pointing out that the reasons are that the vaccine is not available to older people either because of their obstacles to movement, because of their lack of information or for some other reason. The Minister began talking here about younger age groups where vaccination is more successful, but in reality the most vulnerable people are, in particular, older people. They're exposed to these fatal viral risks. The government must therefore choose a different course of action here, take such measures that all these people will be further contacted and the possibility will be found to vaccinate them if they so wish. The organisational and technical obstacles to the delivery of the vaccine to them must be addressed. Now the second issue concerning the implementation of the certification certificate at national level and the achievement of certification certificate rights in relations with third countries. It is a pleasure to see that this is being dealt with. But we were expecting concrete answers on the position of the government. Authorities are engaged, engaged, engaged, but we need to step by step free society from viral restrictions, a predictable code of conduct for entrepreneurs or people, whether in international movements or in domestic affairs. At the moment, we must say that the government does not have a position on this issue. The Prime Minister was very quick to complain to the Minister for Health and Labour that he had failed to develop vaccination plans, vaccination plans. We don't want to punish every sin to the Minister of Health and Labour. We would have expected the government to have a clear understanding already on the table, because in the order of 200,000 people have already been vaccinated. And thirdly, the issue of international cooperation in the field of vaccines. I agree that, of course, we need to work together at WTO level and globally. It was therefore surprising to me that the government did not have a position on the issue of licences under the WTO Agreement. I call on the government to develop its position boldly on such an important international issue and, once this position has been formulated, to stand up for it. We are also interested in resolving the corona crisis on a global scale. After all, we are part of the international economy as the whole functioning of civilization. In this regard, I would also like to draw the attention of the Minister for Health and Labour, as a representative of the Government, to the fact that last week Lithuania has informed the Eastern Partnership countries of its symbolic, significant, symbolic donation to the Eastern Partnership countries. According to my information, he has done this as the first European country. And if we have people vaccinated on this first wave, I mean astraZeneca's resources, then I call on the Estonian Government to join this declaration of solidarity in Lithuania without stretching. But I want to use this speech chair to really want the strength of all those people who, in their daily fight for vaccination, for family doctors, for the staff of the vaccination centre, for local government workers. Your contribution is important and we are grateful for the work you do every day, seven days a week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U62	Thank you. Please, Mart Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U63	Mr. President! Minister, thank you very much. This is a central issue in our lives. We are now anniversaries and a little bit after living in this extraordinary situation, and we have suffered enormous losses. I am thinking above all of economic losses, but also of social losses. People's lives are upset, companies are going bankrupt, unemployment is pretty frightening, pendulum migration, labour migration to Finland is paralyzed. This whole bouquet of questions is extremely worrying when we look to the future. We have been struggling with vaccination for a long time, and let us be honest: the Ministry of Social Affairs was defeated in two, part of it was given to another minister so that the Minister of Labour and Health could deal specifically with work and health issues. Then it turned out that little of it was necessary to get the vaccination driver to work with his team or staff, whatever. We have the Health Board, and yet we have almost a quarter of the population now vaccinated. And if we also look at the fact that we don't know how long the vaccines are active for some kind of activity, I don't know what experts say that about eight months in the middle will have a period of action for the vaccines, that means we have to go back in the next winter to vaccinate. It is linked, as we know, to costs, and it is also linked to logistics: obtaining vaccines, receiving vaccines, storing vaccines, sharing vaccines, injecting vaccines, keeping the whole digital register so that we have a clear picture of who has gotten, when has gotten, etc. I am not raising these questions because of spite, not because I would like to point out that the current minister could not have done his job. Well, we know that all of this is a very complicated logistical, financial, but often also a legal problem, a bundle of problems, and, after all, we are always moving forward by experiment and error. What I want to point out is that right now we cannot say with absolute certainty that we do not have the whole society and the whole country sitting on a syringe. That in six months' time or eight months' time, we will have virtually no revaccination of the entire population. And the readiness to do so is linked to very large question marks, also in the social sense. People need to be convinced that they have to come back for the vaccine because you see, we did one round, but now we're in a situation where we have to go to the next round. Closing questions. When the third wave starts, do we have to go back to some kind of closure: schools, service facilities, amusement and entertainment sectors? These are very acute questions that we need to answer now. We need to look for answers and give answers now, because it seems that way, and I hope that the whole Estonian society hopes that there will be relief in summer. And that is why I am calling on the Minister to take notes now. I believe, of course, that the Ministry and the Health Board are also concerned with these issues. But not only do you have to think about the questions, you have to think about the answers, the costs, the social imbalance that goes along with all this, the logistics. That is the whole point of my speech, not to condemn anyone, not to criticize anyone. I would like to ask you to take my speech as such, as a matter of concern, as a small debate on how to proceed. That's all I have to say. Get back to work, Mr. Minister, and all your partners who are working on the Troubles! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U64	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. This question has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U65	Let's move on to today's second question. It is presented by members of the Riigikogu Urmas Reitelmann, Rene Kokk, Reuben Kaalep, Kert Kingo, Jaak Valge, Paul Puustusmaa, Martin Helme, Henn Põlluaas and Peeter Ernits. The inquiry has been submitted on 12 April 2021. The inquiry has been made against the crackdown on peaceful anti-government demonstrations and is number 67. The inquiry is answered by the Minister of the Interior, Kristian Jaani. I ask Martin Helme, member of the Riigikogu, to represent the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U66	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Indeed, immediately after a clear disproportionate and provocative force was used against peaceful protests in front of the Riigikogu and in the Freedom Square, we presented this question, which we ask a number of questions about, I am about to read them out, but there have been a number of events that actually create a background and make this question even more serious than it was at the time of submission. One of these backgrounds is this endless line of lying that relates to this 'risk assessment', the risk assessment of the kapo on which, I hope, at least at the time of the current answers, there will be nothing going on. And the second background relates to the contrast we saw with the bronze soldier on 9 May, where exactly the same was done in a mass violation of the government's coronal rules and where the police actually acted in contrast to the events that took place at the beginning of April. The police practically didn't intervene completely and kept a very low profile. This double standard is completely incomprehensible to us, and it is completely unacceptable to us too. But what happened at the beginning of April? The beginning of April reminds us of Lihula's events from the beginning of this century: the police used disproportionate force against peaceful demonstrators in our re-independence Estonia. We saw people in the Liberty Square on the second weekend of April being arrested for drumming and stainmannert. We saw the riot police, rapid reactioners and dogs being brought out alongside the regular police, and people were banned from using posters. This cannot be justified in any way by any restrictions on corona. We saw the police physically blackmailing people to move from place to place. And all this activity actually ended with people not being able to exercise their constitutional rights to express their senses. Here are our questions. On what date did the Prime Minister order the use of police units and service dogs in anti-government demonstrations? Under what law did the police in normal circumstances take the measures allowed in the event of an emergency? What points of law enforcement law were violated by those who participated in the anti-government demonstrations brought by the police? It may be appropriate to ask immediately why these same law enforcement posts were not implemented on 9 May. Based on what laws do the police force people to give up their constitutional right to protest against the government by using disproportionate means of action? Before we go to the Minister's answers, I want to emphasise here what is at the heart of this whole question. The central theme of this inquiry is that people came to protest against government policy. They have concerns that the government is pushing politics too hard, that the fundamental constitutional rights of the people are being unduly restricted. And the police reacted to it, confirming all the concerns that people had, perhaps limiting their constitutional rights and preventing the disclosure of their senses. That is the central question. In fact, this is, or should be, one of the biggest political scandals in Estonia that, in our own country, in a free country, with ridiculous excuses, the people are being prevented from expressing their opinions and criticising the government. These are the moves we expect from Belarus or Russia or Myanmar. We do not expect these moves from the Estonian Government against Estonian citizens. This is a central issue that the Minister of the Interior should answer today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U67	I now ask the Minister of the Interior of the Riigikogu's speech chair, Kristian Jaani, to answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U68	Good chairman of the sitting! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! On 12 April, I will respond to an inquiry by members of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia regarding anti-government demonstrations. I'll make a brief introduction. This question is primarily motivated by the demonstration at Toompea in April, where protests were expressed against the restrictions imposed against the spread of the corona virus. I consider it important to stress that the holding of demonstrations is a constitutional right in Estonia as a rule of law. However, the fundamental right is also that the safety and health of the participants in the demonstrations must be guaranteed, and not only for the participants, but also for passers, police officers, auxiliary police officers, who ensure order and safety in the demonstrations. The safety of the employees of the Health Board, who were similarly involved in these demonstrations, is also important. I will now go to the questions raised in the inquiry and, for the sake of clarity, I will read them out here. The first question: "On what date did the Prime Minister order the use of special police units and service dogs to suppress anti-government demonstrations? " The Prime Minister has not given instructions to the Minister of the Interior or to the police. The police have not suppressed any demonstrations, not even anti-government demonstrations, as you call public meetings in your inquiry. The police acted to ensure public order in accordance with the Law Enforcement Act and, in planning their activities, based on the Health Board's threat forecast, the Defence Police Review and the pre-information collected by the Police and Border Guard Board itself. At the time, the restrictions imposed on public meetings allowed a maximum of 10 persons to attend a public meeting, and they had to follow the 2 + 2 rule. The number of participants in public meetings held in the centre of Tallinn increased until 11 April. In order to ensure that people are dispersed and that the restrictions imposed by Government Order No 282 are respected, the police focused attention on groups of ten. The police chose their tactics according to the past behaviour of those involved in public meetings, the calls to find on social media, the assessment of the agencies involved in resolving the situation. The main activity of the police was to communicate with people gathered at meetings and explain restrictions and direct participants so that people adhere to the 2+2 rule. Despite the direction and explanation of the police, restrictions were increasingly being respected. On April 11 there were also a number of cases where policemen were provoked, insulted, or listened to their guidelines, which had been given purely for their health. There were also violations of public order. Due to the increase in the number of participants, the dispersal requirement could not be respected, so the police restricted two areas on the Castle Square. However, people were not prohibited from entering a garden-limited area and holding a public meeting in accordance with the rules of dispersal. Unfortunately, the people didn't take up the opportunity they were offered, they didn't want to come to the field. A public meeting was held on the Liberty Square, where there was more room for dispersal. Although the number of people gathered was not overly high, around 150 people were involved in ensuring order, more police and health officials were involved to communicate with people on an ongoing basis, but there were concerns about maintaining a sufficient distance. There were also situations where the guidelines were not followed, officials were insulted and provoked, and the police started proceedings that day. As has been said, the police choose their tactics, inter alia, according to how the participants in the public meeting behave. On 12 April, the number of participants was low, the dispersion was respected. On April 13, border gardens were also removed from the castle site, as in recent days the meetings had moved to the Liberty Square, where there was also more room. If there was a need to put back the gardens to ensure dispersal, this would have been the case. I'm going to disprove a common and many misconceptions. Special police units were not involved in ensuring the security of public meetings. These were units that are actually daily in Tallinn's Old Town and elsewhere in Tallinn and in Harjumaa, also in Estonia at all times guaranteeing security. Police units were used to ensure our security every day, whether they are patrol officers or rapid reactioners, whom I can, stress, every weekend, every day in Estonia, including Tallinn, patrolling. In addition, regional police and youth police were involved who have received special training to intervene in crisis situations. Seeing policemen in uniforms of a different color next to a regular uniform does not automatically mean that they could be special forces. Because of different functions, the police use different uniforms every day. For example, green is used by border guards and dog drivers, as well as special preparation and planning group officials and relevant unit leaders, in addition to rapid response. Rapid response and dog drivers are also involved, where possible, in public order, in response to challenges, in traffic surveillance and in the execution of many other normal tasks. The police stopped active in public meetings on 19 April and the police guard team at Toompea Castle is currently keeping an eye on the meeting. The second question: "Which law does the police use permitted measures in normal situations of emergency? " The police have not taken additional measures to address this situation, in addition to those used in normal work. The police are guided in their daily work by the measures laid down in the Law Enforcement Act. The police are also based on the Order No 282 of the Government of the Republic and the Health Board's estimates of the risk of infection. The third question: "What points of law enforcement law were violated by those who participated in the anti-government demonstrations brought by the police? " With regard to the violations caused by protests, police procedures started in connection with violations of public meeting requirements, violations of public order and insulting the authority. In all cases, it was a misdemeanour procedure. The provisions concerning behaviour in a public place are set out in § 55 of the Law Enforcement Act, which refers to the general requirements for conduct in a public place. If they are ignored, the relevant infringement proceedings are listed in § 262 of the Penal Code "Practice of public order'. The requirements for organising and holding a public meeting are also set out in the Law Enforcement Act and liability is set out in the Penal Code. Question 4: "By what laws do the police force people to give up their constitutional right to protest against the government? " The police have not forced people to give up their right to protest. The police paid a lot of attention to keeping people distracted in order to minimise the risk of infection. Since this is the daily task of the Health Board, it was done with the Health Board. Police and Health Board have explained the restrictions on public meetings and the 2+2 requirement in force at the time of demonstrations. If participants in a public meeting fail to comply with the dispersal requirement and the situation escalates, or becomes dangerous to participants or others, the police can use special tactics and tools to resolve the situation. The most important framework document in the day-to-day work of the police is the law of law enforcement, which is built on the principle of prevention. In particular, the police need to think about how to prevent and how to be prepared for potential threats, what the consequences might be and what should be done proactively so that such consequences never occur. I'm going to read out some of the principles laid down in law enforcement law. People are obliged to submit to police orders, which is a 'farming obligation', according to § 78, the police always warn against this before using force and give people time to change their behaviour or leave. Only if a person disobeys orders will the police have the right to exercise physical force. Reminders are permitted, but the procedure referred to above must be followed. Under § 71 of the Law Enforcement Act, the police may order the departure from the meeting unless there is a more lenient way to counter the immediate increased threat. It is also permissible to prohibit a meeting if removal of an individual does not ensure the immediate elimination of an increased threat. So once again: demonstrations are allowed in Estonia, demonstration is allowed, it is a constitutional right. However, the special law, the law on law enforcement, provides for certain distinctions, restrictions on the conduct of demonstrations, and in the current context, where we still have a health emergency, there are additional restrictions that come from the government's order of 282. At this point in time we are talking about today, a meeting could be held if there were no more than ten names in line with the 2+2 rule. However, at these meetings, which we are talking about specifically, there were no formal organisers, nor were there any organizers appointed by the organisers. So, actually, the police had to assume that role. But thanks for the question. These were my answers, waiting for further questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U69	Minister, thank you. You have questions too. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U70	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. As you admitted at the meeting with our political party, there were incidents on 11 April where protestors were shut down in police buses and started looking for an appropriate section for them to initiate misdemeanour proceedings. But the section was not found and the procedure was not initiated and the police officers were forced to release the same demonstrators again. As we also asked you at the meeting with the group, how do you comment on this method of police work and whether it was the initiative of the police officers on the ground themselves or whether it was the order from the top?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U71	Thank you for your question. Police officers always make decisions on the ground independently, which is one of the principles that every policeman must be able to take decisions on his own. I assure you, there certainly could not have been a situation where someone was taken on a police vehicle to find some sort of passage for him. You can't be like that in a state of law. People were taken to a police vehicle to talk to them. And the purpose may have been to prevent any possible threat from the person's actions. So the person was removed from the crowd, talked to him in the car, explained things. If a more specific offence had been committed, the person could also be transferred to the police station where he was taken from him and then released. But surely no one was taken in a police car or a police car to leave there in vain.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U72	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U73	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I don't know, aren't you embarrassed? Could be. Could be! Anyway, I feel deeply insulted by this talk, especially when we have a contrast with 9 May. So, what's this about two drunks sitting on a park bench, going with dogs and automatics to enforce law enforcement? People are breaking the law of law. You have to make order. And we have to show by force that the state is: we take the dogs, we take the machines, we send out the buses, we take the people and we put the bus, we explain it to them. Well, if there's no composition, we'll let go later. Well, it's such an embarrassing story to be ashamed of! My question is very simple... [[The sound's cracking.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U74	I'm asking you to give me back the microphone to Mart Helme! I ask you, Mart Helme, to repeat your question. There was no question. Mart Helme, please! Can we cut the connection to Mart Helme for a second? Dear Mart Helme! I didn't hear your question. Can you just ask me a question again? A microphone for Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U75	Is it my question now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U76	I can hear you now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U77	My question to the Minister was very simple. Is the minister such a story that makes me deeply embarrassed and insults me, too, ashamed? Is he ashamed of that kind of talk and performance?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U78	Thank you for your question. I'm not shy. It is up to me here to explain how the police have behaved in these demonstrations and why it was precisely such a tactic and action that the police had chosen. I would stress once again that the initial intervention of the police, in particular, was related to the risk of infection when people gathered in fresh air, but there were more than ten. At that moment, such restrictions were in force. Now these restrictions are a piece of land lighter. And once again, the police were working there with the Health Board and just to keep people healthy. Indeed, there were also provocations, there were also situations where police guidelines were not followed very aggressively on the verbal road to opposition to the police. And as a result, there were situations where some individuals needed to be removed from the larger crowd to prevent a greater violation of public order. They were interviewed in cars and, indeed, misdemeanor proceedings were initiated for some of them. The total number of such misdemeanour proceedings was 12 these days.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U79	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U80	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, I am interested in the way you consulted and when you consulted with the President of the Riigikogu and the Prime Minister... even though the procedure was decided by the police officers. [[The connection's breaking up.]] Very confusing signals have been sent. Have meetings been held before this escalation and the use of more serious measures?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U81	Thank you. When I heard correctly, the question concerned whether the Prime Minister had been spoken to on these issues. Indeed, both I and the Head of the Police and Border Guard Board, Elmar Vaher, gave a briefing and an overview of what activities the police are planning and what possible threats may be. But it wasn't a question of advice. The police must decide their tactics and their actions themselves, but indeed, they kept up to date and so-called briefings took place.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U82	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U83	Thank you very much, manager. Dear Minister, To be honest, I am very pleased that you have explained that there is currently a health emergency in Estonia that is not announced. In any case, statements of reason are allowed as long as the police permit. That's very good. But when it comes to the constitutional obligation to comply with the principle of equal treatment, I have this question: was the different reaction of the police to the events of April in Toompea and the Liberty Square compared to the reaction during the events of 9 May because Toompea and the Liberty Square were protested against the actions of the government, but there was no protest against the actions of the government at the cemetery?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U84	Thank you for your question. It wasn't any of that. The fact that the visible police tactics were different when we were talking about the events that took place in Estonia in mid-April and 9 May was still linked to the change in the situation of how many people can be arranged I stress: attending a public meeting or even attending a public event. Secondly, a very important aspect of this matter is whether the event has a specific organiser, the organiser, whether there are designated stewards, whether there is contact with the police and if the police guidelines are respected, the advice of the Health Board will be respected. When we specifically talk about the events of 9 May in Tallinn, for example, more than 1000 protective masks were distributed on site, which people were also happy to accept and use. So police action and tactics still depend on the situation: whether there is a partner with whom to organise everything, whether the guidelines have been heard, how the guidelines are followed and what practical experience has been in previous years of conducting similar events at any point in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U85	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U86	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. I saw Mom and her baby taken off on TV. I wonder what the reason was. Were they considered dangerous at this event?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U87	Thank you for your question. Personally, I don't recall being taken away by my mother with a little child. There must have been situations where people with children were interviewed. But I'm really sorry, I don't remember having a situation where a mother with a little baby would have been taken away. Conversations, however, were certainly conducted with these people as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U88	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U89	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You have now justified police action with different sections of the Law Enforcement Act, but since I have been debating misdemeanour proceedings in the police for more than 20 years, I will immediately disprove your justifications to § 11 (1), which says that when the official presents himself in an understandable way and presents a certificate of employment. It hasn't been done. There are numerous references to this. But I'm not going to have this legal argument with you here. The question is that there has now been a complaint before the administrative court that police action was unconstitutional. This is also indicated by the non-application of enforcement regulations. Do you intend to resign if this complaint is satisfied? You don't even regret anything right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U90	Thank you for your question. As I have said in previous times both here in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu and in the political group: if people feel that their rights are restricted, it is very right to address either the court or the out-of-court judge. You can also contact the police directly, you can contact internal control. That is what is right, and I have also called it when people have felt it. That's when you have to act like one. And if, indeed, such a complaint has been referred to the administrative court, I too look forward to how our legal system appreciates it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U91	Helle-Moonika Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U92	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. On May 9, there was a rule that 150 participants should be allowed to attend events. Only 150 participants! How does it go with the 10,000 participants that were actually there? And Elmar Vaher said that at the peak, there were 300 people at the Red Monument, once again a violation. Then nothing was done. But are procedures for these major infringements initiated or initiated? And on 3 May, as we learned and the public learned much later, the government decided that the rule of 2 + 2 in field events should not be observed at all. It was just before 9 May. Were you in this government hearing and were you aware of this decision? Now, please, think about what you're saying.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U93	Thank you for your question. I probably took part in the government meeting, even though I took a short break two weeks ago. But since there's been a lot of work, I don't remember what day it was. However, if we talk again on 9 May and talk about what happened in April, they are slightly different in nature. They differ in that sense, I repeat, when we talk about the event on 9 May, there was a specific organiser, there was a partner for the police. Yeah, there were, of course, more than 150 people passing through there during the day. The police were doing exactly the same thing there, people were being explained the requirements, the Health Board was handing out masks. The same was true of the demonstrations here in Toompea and Liberty Square. There were more than ten people here in mid-April, and just like the police, he explained, once again explained, tried to get people to keep their distance together with the Health Board. After all, here too, it was not that people were scattered in any way, but that they were trying to ensure that people kept their distance. And the exact same task was on 9 May. There were indeed more people, but the police and the Health Board had exactly the same task: if too many people come together at the same time, there is a great deal of effort to keep people at a distance and to use protective equipment, such as masks, which were distributed there, as I said, over 1,000. But thank you for the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U94	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U95	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! I fully agree with you that indeed the events of 9 May and April were completely different. There were absolutely different people whose purpose and reason for the event was different. In April, we saw riot police, automatic weapons, dogs, dozens and dozens of policemen and employees of the Health Board. There was nothing like that on 9 May. At the peak, there were only six police officers at the cemetery who didn't have any such equipment. And yet, Elmar Vaher, who has been lying all along, talking about some sort of threat assessment that Toompea was wanted to be attacked and that there was a threat to constitutional order here in front of Toompea and on the Liberty Square, said that the threat assessments did not differ from those two events. So...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U96	Honourable questioner, please question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U97	...should also have been prepared for attacks against constitutional order. But there was nothing like it. Can you explain how you can respond differently to the same threat?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U98	Minister, I apologize. Good fellows! I understand we have a long-distance hearing, and if you're at a long-distance hearing, I understand that if you talk, there's no hearing of what's being said in this Chamber. I beg you, make sure the clock is running! It can't be that we have one minute to ask, and it's actually asked when the first minute and 25 or 26 seconds have passed. Let's stay within one minute, please! Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U99	Thank you for your question. I'm afraid I'm gonna have to repeat myself a little bit. Indeed, the police were engaged in different tactics on May 9th and mid - April. Different tactics do not mean that the number of police officers was very different. The fact that on 9 May there were really more employees of the Health Board and of the Tallinn Municipal Police Office and fewer police officers on the way to Cemetery was a purely tactical decision. And this is purely because there was an earlier experience, good contact with the organizers, organizers appointed and so on. Police officers were quite there, but they were in the'remote perimeter'. When we came to the demonstrations that took place here, the tactics of the days were such that there were more police officers on the ground, because the risk was different. There were fewer police officers on site the next few days, and the patrols were more scattered in the city. The municipal police officials of Tallinn, for example, were also not involved in this area. So once again, the number and resources of police officers were available on 9 May in Estonia, as well as on the previous days, also on 8 May. It was just really different tactics. But it is certainly not right to say that it would have reacted with less resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U100	Thank you. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U101	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Thank you, Minister. I think the mentality you're expressing here is appalling. What we are talking about is whether there was a right to disperse and detain these people after the courts, and that is what Putin's henchmen are doing in Moscow against protestors, and that is what Lukashenko is doing if he does not like anti-government protests. That's exactly it! And it was particularly awful to hear that police orders should in any case be obeyed. If the police decide not, today we will no longer allow you to protest here, which is why the Constitution allows it, then you must obey. No, by the way, you don't have to obey. Citizens are not required to comply with illegal orders and, by the way, police officers do not have to comply with the illegal orders of their superiors. And you are talking here with absolute self-evidentness that if the police chief or the Minister of the Interior decides that no, today we no longer have the constitutional freedom to protest. You don't even understand what's wrong, and it actually disqualifies you from your position.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U102	Thank you for your question. The police have not disbanded any of the demonstrations that have taken place. The police have visited and explained to people what the risks are and directed people to act in such a way as to minimise these risks. And he's done it with the Health Board. Neither the police nor the Minister of the Interior can decide whether or not constitutional rights apply. The Estonian state cannot simply be like this. The Constitution gives people the right to gather peacefully, to protest peacefully, but a special law has also imposed certain restrictions, for example, that it is the duty of notification under certain conditions if people want to exercise their constitutional right. And, indeed, at that point in time, there were and there are also restrictions in part of government order No 282, which provides for the number of people allowed to attend public gatherings, even at public events. From now on, this limit is 250 people in company with 25 people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U103	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U104	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! I sincerely hope that in the Ministry of the Interior and in the government it is now understood that people are gathering in a demonstration today, not because someone, a group or a person invites them there, but because people simply agree and gather in the weather network. And that's their right, their right, their right, their right, their right, their right, their right, their right, their right, their But I will now come back to the question of Martin Helme again and differently. So how is it anyway? On the one hand, as people have the right to gather and protest against the government, but, on the other hand, we have some kind of law, and if the police say that now you're going to disperse the quail, then you have to obey it. Where are those rights anyway? I don't understand!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U105	Thank you for your question. Indeed, in Estonia, and in many other democratic countries, the right to gather and express itself is not an absolute right. It is restricted by a specific law. In Estonia, this law of order is limited by the law, which lays down certain conditions when and how this constitutional law can be implemented. For example, if people want to organise a demonstration and by this demonstration, for example, change traffic management or use sound-enhancing techniques, which may also be a normal roopor, then the organisers must inform the police. I stress, inform. The democratic rule of law does not have to ask permission to protest, but under certain conditions the police must be informed. In addition, it is of course important that, at the moment these demonstrations were carried out, public assemblies were also subject to restrictions under Government Order No 282, which were imposed because people would remain healthy. It provided that the mind could be expressed in groups of up to ten and had to adhere to the 2 + 2 rule. So once again: protesting is a constitutional right, fully guaranteed in Estonia, but it is not absolute. Under normal circumstances, it is regulated by the Law on Law Enforcement; in this situation it was further regulated by Government Order No 282.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U106	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U107	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! First of all, Minister, you said earlier that you are not ashamed to talk like this, but I have to admit that as a former police officer, I am very ashamed of what you have said. But that's it. Until now, neither the Prime Minister nor as your Minister of the Interior wanted to take responsibility for the inappropriate efforts of the police, you have pushed it to the Director-General of the Police. If the police chief chooses the wrong tactic, or misjudges the situation, reacts inadequately and creates a situation where power representatives with firearms and service dogs take action against an unarmed and peaceful people, thus violating the Constitution and destroying the public's sense of security and confidence in the police, is such a leader even fit for his post? Are you still justifying this wrong-chosen tactic and course of action?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U108	Thank you for your question. I believe the tactics chosen by the police were justified. When we talk about police carrying service weapons or that the police have service dogs, they do. The police use them every day. Every day there are patrols all over Estonia, including in Tallinn and elsewhere in Harjumaa, who often also have a service dog with them. Firearms, special equipment is used by the police every day. They're not just being put on because people have come out to ensure safety. They're in everyday gear, and they were in those days. They are also used on all other days when the police are outside security, regardless of whether security must be guaranteed at a particular public gathering or other public event, such as a sporting event anywhere. The police always have these things with them. It's nothing out of the ordinary.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U109	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U110	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! How do we view music in public places? Let's look at these two events that took place on 9 May and then what we're talking about now, this gathering. The police were completely different from that music. What's your guess in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U111	Thank you for your question. Once again, when I heard the correct communication was bad for a moment, it was once again: when we talk about the use of various musical instruments, sound amplification and so on, when we talk about events on 9 May, they were registered as public events, and there was also a description of the use of musical instruments. The events or demonstrations of conscience that were in Toompea and Vabaduse Square were not such as to have been previously notified to the police and to have been announced that sound amplification or music is being played. Here comes the difference.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U112	Thank you. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U113	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. My question is quite simple. There has been a lot of talk about the so-called threat assessment of the kapo, which is probably like a working document. What did you read out there? It has been said that Elmar Vaher said and so he said that constitutional order could be in jeopardy. I have also had the honour of reading this document. I'm curious what you read out there. Did you read something like that? Please respond!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U114	Thank you for your question. It was a defensive police briefing. And indeed, in his interview, the Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board said that this could be a risk to constitutional order. This was not such an immediate threat at a particular moment, but indeed in some scenarios escalation, this risk could have arisen, and indeed that was what Chief of Police Elmar Vaher said in his interview. I also agree, as I have said before, that I could have opened up a little more of my point in this same interview.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U115	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U116	[[Remote connection]] I very much agree that the freedom of meeting is one of the pillars of democracy. At the same time, public meetings also need to comply with the law and especially during the rapid spread of the virus. But what I am asking is that one of the leaders of these demonstrations publicly called for an armed coup in the media, with a weapon, to create a new country. What is your assessment of such calls? And did these calls affect police tactics and decisions in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U117	Thank you for your question. Indeed, the social media spread a wide variety of calls during these demonstrations, including calls to invade the Riigikogu. Very many members of the Riigikogu also received threats, including death threats. The police intervened on all these calls and threats and had quite a few conversations. Indeed, fortunately none of them were true. How do I feel about this? Of course I don't feel so good. Because, as in the public space at all, there are requirements for how to behave, what are the general requirements for behaviour in the public space, the same general requirements for behaviour should also apply in the online space, in cyberspace. You shouldn't make such calls or say anything you spit in your mouth and then later just say that there was actually a joke. It doesn't have a serious background, and it actually takes a lot of resources away from the police and other security agencies. So this is certainly not an acceptable behaviour in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U118	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U119	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Minister of the Interior! The next day, the Director General of the Special Branch, Arnold Sinisalu, commented on the ERR, and now I do not remember literally, but the point was that there was no threat to constitutional order, nor was the Kremlin's hairy hand involved. How does this saying, how do these sayings fit into the context of everything that's been said here?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U120	Thank you for your question. Indeed, that was the case and, as I myself pointed out, there was no immediate threat to constitutional order at that point. However, there were certain phenomena, certain scenarios, certain possible situations that could have led to the escalation of activities. And that's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U121	Good Minister, there are no more questions for you. Thank you! Now we are going to the negotiations, and first I will give the floor to those who have signed the inquiry. Martin Helme gets the floor first. Please, eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U122	Thank you. We had a real eye-opening debate here. I would like to sum it up in one word with which we have, I would say, a burning problem in Estonia, and that is a question of civil control. I'm gonna start a little bit wider. Here there was an argument as to why the police needed to disband an anti-government demonstration with force, force demonstration and disproportionate force. The argument we have, well, let's just say, bounced back and forth. There's been talk of a threat to constitutional order, then we've been talking about a threat in the Coronary. Today we know that the Health Board has acknowledged that there have been 0.34% of the cases of coronal infections in ambient air. At the beginning of April, the gatherings of a few hundred people in Tallinn did not lead to an increase in the incidence of infection, but, on the contrary, the incidence of infection was declining at that time. And that horrible wrestling, lying that went along with the Kapo threat assessment, thank God it wasn't gonna be fixed here today. We have answers to what was our first question of when and how was the decision at political level, when was the Prime Minister involved, when the Minister of the Interior decided himself, we did not really get. They have not been received throughout the month that we have repeatedly called on our group, both the Director-General of the Police Department, the Minister for the Interior and the Prime Minister. It is surrounded by one endless twisting, wrestling, and a constant change in their reasoning. But we all understand what the reason was. The government did not like demonstrations directed against the government. And now the Home Secretary says you can't tell people what spit brings in their mouths. Well, are you guys so pathetic that you're essentially putting the state's police forces in full arms and full readiness because some people with a foil cap are talking on Facebook about how they're going to take Toompea? Is this the level of your threat assessment, that you read the Facebook post and then conclude that we are in some kind of danger that the functioning of the country will be damaged? In that case, as professionals, you have failed so completely that all management should be replaced. But we all know that's a lie. That's a lie! After all, these are all pretexts sought to show fists to their people who were dissatisfied with government politics. All of these are sought-after reasons for all this embarrassing talk about some law enforcement fines that were somehow applied here in front of this house, but they were no longer important at the cemetery downtown. There's no interest in it anymore. You can play bellows at the cemetery downtown, but you can't play the cello on Freedom Square. The only difference is that in the Freedom Square, people expressed dissatisfaction with government policy. You're gonna get caught. It's so clear to everyone what you've been up to: beating your own. You can basically put a cherry on your people's throat and say that we decided today that the police decided that there was no constitutional right to protest from this point on, because of the constitution we have a higher decision of some kind in the government, the fictional sections of the law of order and a non-existent threat assessment. And we decided, and that order must be followed, and so it is. That is the question of civil control that we are talking about. It is also a matter of the existence of the Constitution. If we let go of this standard now, we have accepted that Estonia is no longer a free state, but that in Estonia there are basically uniforms in Estonia who do not ask the Prime Minister, the Minister of the Interior, for a long time without Parliament, what can and cannot be done. That's what they want, that's what they decide. Let's put some fences up here, then put the dogs on the street. It's up to you to know that this is the case, and if we decide in a month we don't need dogs, then so be it. It's not called the rule of law. It's called a Voluntarian State. We are not equal before the law. Laws do not apply to everyone, but only to parts, laws are imposed on some people with full rigour, and these laws are not applied at all to other people. And I am not just talking here about the fact that we had two public gatherings a month apart, where completely different standards were applied. I am also saying that we have some senior officials or politicians who may break the law, who can give illegal orders and demand that they be enforced, or else... Or else we'll know what is. Then you'll be put in a police van, taken to the plates, taken off your pants, confiscated milk dummies, cellos, drums, anything. And then they say, oh, you can sue the administrative court. You go to court for four years, you pay around EUR 20,000 of your lawyers' fees, and then you pay the state some expenses. And then, after four years or six years, when this trial has been rolled out and turns out to be ups, the fine of EUR 200 for you was really illegal, well, that's all. It is the way in which people rule in Moscow, it is the way in which they rule in Belarus. And we will not allow Estonia to rule like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U123	Next up is Kert Kingo. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U124	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry to hear all this happening and to watch. I'm sorry to see the chief of police and the Minister of the Interior, who is a former police chief, have been working hard and hard throughout the years to increase police credibility. They call all their actions police tactics. Police tactics are certainly not to scare their people with weapons or to show aggression against them. Police tactics are to provide people with a sense of security, to react exactly who is opposite them. And in this case, a peaceful nation was opposite them. Without guns, no firearms, no cold weapons. This tactical talk is completely inappropriate, and it's lying. Likewise, I am very embarrassed to hear the Minister of the Interior try to speak to the Special Forces and their equipment as daily police equipment. We all saw that there were high-speed responders, that their sleeves had a label called Rapid Reactioners. And now the Minister of the Interior speaks without even blinking, bringing an example of a normal police situation when there's been some kind of violation, that everyone has a firearm on them. But they were Special Forces. And Special Forces are used in emergency situations: when there are major riots that are aggressive when cars are vandalized or burned, not against ordinary peaceful people. It really isn't for the police to scare their own people, it's not for no reason to go against their own people. This can only be the case if the people themselves are violent or aggressive. The Minister of the Interior and the Police Director's talk about law enforcement, how it can be used every day, is not true. It's again twisting and distorting the truth, justifying yourself. If the police do not act on who they are going against, in this case armed against a peaceful nation, instead of calming the situation, they are calling for an escalation. And if there were people in that company, as it is said here, who were planning to get aggressive or do something about someone, then police tactics mean that these people will be quietly distracted, without causing panic, without frightening other people, without threatening them. That is why I say that the action that took place on 11 April was an exercise of power. And the saddest thing is... [[I can't hear the next one.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U125	Sorry, Kert, we've lost audio contact with you. Can you check your microphone? The picture's fine, but the sound's gone.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U126	Can you hear me now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U127	Yeah, that's nice to hear again.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U128	Finally, I would like to say that the police should be at the disposal of the people, rather than become a personal penal colony of the Prime Minister, so if the Prime Minister feels that he does not like anything, then the police will defend his personal emotions or his feelings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U129	Thank you. And please, Mart Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U130	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Say what? A lot has been said here, but I'd still like to add a few more brush strokes. First of all, I'd say that. Minister, your performance today has confirmed that you have completely failed your profession. You're coming here to lie to us. Do you think we haven't seen all these photos, videos, interacting with people, reading on Facebook about their impressions that we don't have a picture in front of us? We have a full picture of what happened there. You're talking about people acting provocatively. We've seen the police get on top of us, push people together all the time, push people close to each other, and then start screaming: keep your distance, keep your distance! People were simply taken away, taken onto plates without being aggressive, without doing anything that seriously was in any way a threat to other people. By the way, the threat. The Health Board has clearly assured us: no infections were caused by the gatherings at the beginning of April, no identified infections were caused. All this talk about protecting health and caring for people cannot be taken seriously. With your performance, you proved that you're still Elmar Vaher's subordinate, not the minister who has to say, "Hey, Elmar, that was a complete mess you screwed up." This is a crap done to me as a politician and a government, and we will not accept that. Please write a letter of resignation, especially if we count your boots, headphones, and education forgeries. There you go, we're breaking up, now the chalice's full. No, instead, you're gonna come and honk about how you still trust this guy. Can't be trusted! Then there's more. Two different situations. April at the Liberty Square and May at the Inner Town Cemetery. Indeed, two different situations. In one case, the Estonian state showed a full muscle, and in the other case, the wall edge passed by, did not intervene, did not stop gulljanje right there behind the walls of the Inner Town Cemetery, where people drank vodka from a bottle. Is that in line with law enforcement? Where was the country's fist then? Where was the full rigour of law enforcement then? The bottle of vodka to drink, the karmaška to draw, the guljanje to make ♪ it was all okay. And then you say something about provocative behavior and threats. Well, I think you should be very aware of the threats against the Estonian people and the Estonian state that occur every day in the Russian Delfi commentary. Why don't you make the whole country pay? Why don't you talk to these people? Why don't you ask them out? Why don't you isolate them? Why don't you erase their accounts? Because you don't dare, and that's your failure. You've completely failed with your two-facedness. It was embarrassing to listen, it was insulting to hear that you thought we were fools. But we're not stupid. I'm so sorry that I'm so emotional, but in your arrogance, in your numbness, you've caused this reaction. It is not possible to regard MEPs as totally idiots. It is simply not possible, and we do not agree with it. Now there's the threat to constitutional order. We have another interrogation with the Secretary of Defense. We can now see very clearly that there is only one company in Estonia that is actually a threat to constitutional order. This is the current government. It's the current government that, take it or leave it, it's like the Kremlin's propaganda is eating out of the party and the Kremlin's, how to say, strategists. We reduce the cost of protection, take away money from children's circles of interest, make protests among the population on constitutional drafts, use police tactics that irritate people, divide society, cause defiance in society and opposition to the police and government. After all, you do everything the Kremlin has always wanted to happen in Estonia. And then you blame populist politicians here. Stop it! There are no populist politicians here!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U131	Your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U132	In short, I'm not gonna talk any longer. I'm literally bursting out of frustration. Please, Mr. Minister, step back! Or if you yourself are not willing to resign...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U133	Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U134	...then take down the chief of police, find the scapegoat. He's done so much bad, he's damaged so much the credibility of the police and the government that it's hard to count these losses. He has also damaged the reputation of the Estonian Defence Forces in that the police did not show that he was present at the Inner Town Cemetery, the police did not show that he had the strength, the police did not comply with the law of law enforcement. It's embarrassing! I understand there are people who aren't embarrassed. I hope you're not one of them. But if you do not react now, don't think that we have exactly the same slogan as those people who organized these protests and are still holding them in front of the Riigikogu: we will not shut up and we will not leave. Please consider: we will not shut up and we will not leave! And please, if you start using such cop tricks now, that as soon as some member of our group has some minor violation somewhere, three kilometres per hour is speeding somewhere, that is, the Estonian state and Estonian police show their full power and strength. Don't do that, because we won't shut up anymore, and we won't go away again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U135	Please, Kalle Grünthal! Three minutes extra time, eight tops.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U136	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, and also the Minister of the Interior. Before you came here today on the remote, we had a meeting. We had a meeting with the Health Board. And there was some interesting information coming out of these meetings, which I think should have made a careful appearance in today's performance here, where I think you obviously were very wrong. I understand the police are always trying to wash their uniforms. I agree with that. However, at one point in time, there are limits where the police must also admit that they have done something wrong. You've just come from the police ranks to politics. But unfortunately, you have not understood that there is a limit between the Minister of the Interior and a police officer. You can't protect the uniforms anymore. You must be guided by what is appropriate to the Minister of the Interior. Today, when you threw yourself into the dzot to protect the police uniform, you were very wrong. You missed that machine gun. You referred here today to the various sections of the law on law enforcement which, in your opinion, gave the police a justification. But as we have said in previous meetings, which we have held, that we have also seen videos spread through social media, and I also know from my personal experience that I saw that the police were very wrong about the law of law and order. The most important point, I think, is that §11 (1) of the Law Enforcement Act says that when a law enforcement officer's rights are exercised, an official is obliged to present himself and, at the request of a person, present his or her official certificate. That's what I know, as far as I've seen these videos, practically didn't. Practically it wasn't! I'll give you an example: a policeman who's supposedly a member of the Health Board is pulling people out of the crowd. Come with me! Come with me! They ask who you are, give me your name! There is no attention to this, and the police patrol is watching this situation and they are not responding to it. Minister, thank you very much. Right now, there's a double violation. And in the framework of all this, there will be no proceedings against police officers who failed to discharge their duties. Not only do the law of law apply to peaceful residents, but it also applies to police officers. That is why the law of law has been designed to balance the law so that the police cannot apply force alone, so that it cannot only bring people to order and to obey, to obey. There are pre-existing procedures for this to be followed. As a former police officer, I think you probably know that § 19 of the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure states that when initiating a misdemeanour procedure or the first procedural act, it must be followed up to explain to people their rights and obligations. The Supreme Court has repeatedly pointed out that there has been no fair and honest procedure for any violations of these acts. But I don't want to make a legal assessment of this whole disgraceful story right here. All I want to say is that, as the people stood in one line for fundamental rights in Estonia, we do not need to find any special organisers for this. It's a fundamental right. I agree that there are special laws, etc. But no one forbids peaceful gathering unless there is an official organizational side. And now the same people have gone to court. People are going to ask the court whether or not our constitutional rights were violated at this demonstration, whether or not the police's actions were justified. The positive sign is already that the forced money that has been paid to people here has been suspended. That's a very good sign. When I asked you if you would resign if it turned out that the police did not act properly, you did not answer my question. You didn't answer. You said you had the right to go to court. Of course it is, but someone has to take responsibility. Someone has to be responsible for this. I understand that if there's a police officer and he's made a mistake, there's gonna be some kind of disciplinary or internal investigation against him. Okay, I agree with that. But, Minister, you are no longer in the ranks of the police, you are the Minister of the Interior, who must ensure that this structure works in such a way that the Constitution and other laws have been complied with, as you said, as well as the special laws. It's your responsibility. That's what you've put in place there. It's your duty. It's not a place to wash a uniform. There is now an explanation as to whether or not you are capable of pursuing this profession. And I really hope you have so much left of the dignity of the uniform man that if it turns out that this was not legitimate, you'll resign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U137	We have exhausted the second item.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U138	We will move on to the third item, which is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Helir-Valdor Seeder, Raivo Tamme, Sven Sester, Aivar Koka, Priit Sibula, Andres Metsoja, Üllar Saaremäe and Urmas Reinsalu concerning the weakening of Estonian national defence. As the representative of the heirs, please [from the remote] Helir-Valdor Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U139	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. On behalf of the Riigikogu Fatherland Envoy Group, we submitted an inquiry concerning national defence. We have serious concerns about the future of Estonian national defence. A little over six months ago, on 22 September, you, Minister, said the following words. The background is so that it was the government's handling of the draft state budget and discussions were held on the future of defence spending. We're talking about the previous government. [You said]: "It gives a clear signal that national defence is no longer a priority for the government. It is particularly irresponsible to give such messages now that the international situation does not even allow us to think about reducing defence spending." Just a few months later, the same person has taken office as the Minister of Defence and the government approves the state's budget strategy, resulting in a reduction of defence expenditure compared to the previously approved and valid RES of 16,6 million in 2022, 16,6 million in 2023 and 20 million in 2024. In addition, the state's budgetary strategy provides for the sale of the Port of Mine, on which we have subsequently received various comments, that the State's budgetary strategy is a plan that may not be realised as such and may not even be planned when a specific state budget is adopted. There's a lot of confusion about this port of Mine. If it is not to be sold, then in fact, the country's budget strategy includes air, the wrong cover on the revenue side. And if it's really going to be sold, there's a bigger kind of confusion that we're hoping the Secretary of Defense will give us an explanation because the Minister of the Interior, who is also here, has planned, as we read in the latest news, to take the Marine Unit of the Police and Border Guard Board to the Mineport. But how do you do that if the other agency is planning to sell the Mineport? This is extremely regrettable. What have we got these past few days? It has become clear that with regard to the confirmed RES, the Defence Forces are planning to terminate the chaplain service and eliminate the Order of the Defence Forces. I would not just like to focus on the two news that came today, which is actually very important. They are a very important part of Estonian national defence, because the main pillar and foundation of Estonian national defence is defence, high morals and psychological preparation. The defence will be the one on which the Estonian Defence Forces are based. The military orchestra and chaplain service are the ones that maintain [the will of defense]. After all, it is only the top of the iceberg that is financially involved in all this austerity and cutting. What is actually going to be saved, and what cuts are coming, is mostly unknown to us today. We very much hope that the Minister will find an opportunity to answer the four questions that we have sent in writing and, in addition to the topical questions that have arisen here and which I have now pointed out in the introduction. Sincerely, I say that in the current security policy situation, cutting defence spending is just as stupid a move as going to cut health expenditure in the current health crisis. Here I fully agree, honourable Minister, with the words you said a little over six months ago: it is particularly irresponsible to give such messages alone at a time when the international situation does not even allow us to think about reducing defence spending. Has the international security situation really improved significantly in the last six months?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U140	Mr Kalle Laanet, Minister of Defence, is now welcome to the speaker's desk. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U141	Honourable Vice President! Good Minister of the Interior! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I would like to begin by thanking the heirs for being here before the Riigikogu and discussing with you the empowerment of Estonian national defence. Before I begin to answer the questions of the honourable heirs, I will focus on the economic and financial situation in Estonia, and then I will give more details about the RES and answer your questions. The epidemic and the accompanying economic downturn have significantly reduced the long-term forecast of defence costs. The impact of the crisis has affected the private sector, where many have been unemployed and some companies have disappeared completely from the market. In this situation, it is impossible for the state to turn its back and say that this crisis does not affect us financially. Of course, the situation is greatly aggravated by the billion-perceived income generated by the previous government in the previous country's budget strategy. We know that Estonian national defence is one of the most cost-effective in the whole North Atlantic Union. We are able to put out 20,000 fighter Defence Forces, plus the Defence League volunteers. We have achieved a great deal in the last ten years. For example, we introduced infantry combat vehicles and new medium and long-range anti-tank weapons, developed the nearest anti-aircraft and started to replace handguns, created a cyber command, and fully supported the functioning of the Defence League as a well-equipped and trained territorial safety carpet. Speaking of percentages and volume, the Defence Forces need to focus more on filling the gaps in the ability of primary self-defence. I am thinking of the acquisition of coastal defence missile systems, mines and long-term mid-range anti-aircraft systems, but also the integration of navy fleets into an optimal and militaryly functioning navy in terms of management and cost. The slow development of the Estonian Navy is also of increasing concern to our allies. When last autumn the Minister of Finance planned to cut 50 million exclusively from the defence budget, of course, I opposed it with a straight back. This would have been an extremely unfair and bad step. I would like to thank the Minister for Defence of the previous government and its immediate vicinity, who did not allow this unfair step to be taken. If the current government has set itself the goal of finding savings in operational and economic costs in each ministry in order to move towards fiscal balance and thus make Estonia's investment environment even more attractive, then I must agree with that. In the domain of the Ministry of Defence, this means changes that have the least possible impact on military defence. The Commander of the Defence Forces has already made his proposals public. Defence costs have increased strongly in Estonia over the last decade. They have grown significantly faster than the Estonian economy. 2011/2020. Estonia's GDP increased by 162%, but the volume of Estonian defence expenditure increased by 222% during the same period. This shows that the independent defence capabilities of Estonian governments are important, and we comply with NATO rules, thus setting an example for many. I think that here we should, of course, bow down to previous governments and, of course, bow down to taxpayers. In the light of the savings proposed, I can still confirm that, for example, next year, the level of defence costs will be 712 million, which is over 66 million more than this year. The points of the coalition agreement, where the floor of defence costs is 2%, plus the defence investment programme and host state support, are guaranteed in each year of the country's budget strategy, and I assure you that this will continue as long as the Reform Party is in the Estonian government. Now also to the more specific questions of the heirs. The answer to the first question is that the international economic situation has become worse and the health crisis has lasted longer than we could have anticipated. This and realistic fiscal policy have cut back on the dreams of the budgetary strategy and lowered the desired budget increase. The answer to the second question...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U142	Good Minister, may I ask you to read the question? Otherwise, it will be very difficult to follow the verbatim after.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U143	I must admit that I do not have these questions in front of me, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U144	We're about to give you an inquiry. You will understand the question and then you will be able to follow the verbatim after.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U145	Thank you so much for your help. The second question: "In the field of defence and defence procurement, stability is important, as the development of new defence capabilities is a long-term activity. Why is the government weakening the long-term planning of Estonian defence? " In Estonian national defence, the real expert planners are undoubtedly working, and by autumn we will also come up with a new national defence development plan that has a plan to resolve the gaps. Question 3: "Species in national defence mean that certain investments or expenses must inevitably be excluded under the responsibility of the Ministry of Defence. What specific activities or investments will be omitted in the coming years compared to the RES approved by the previous coalition? " The Defence Forces' austerity plans have already been partially presented by the Commander of the Defence Forces. The austerity plan for the entire area of government will be completed by the beginning of June. Savings are found to have a minimal impact on Estonia's military defence. In addition, I am eager to find places where more cooperation can be achieved across borders. Greater cooperation will enhance the functioning and independent defence capabilities of the country as a whole and, of course, will guarantee a more effective and thinner country. I believe that in many areas it is possible for the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior to find a common section. Question 4: "The RES foresees the sale of the Tallinn Mine Harbour and the possible move of the navy there in 2025. Based on what considerations is the sale of the Tallinn Mine Harbour planned? "As I mentioned earlier, the Estonian Navy must take major steps towards development. The strategic naval development plans were introduced to me by the late General Kert. We need both a better picture of the situation and greater certainty that we are keeping strategic waterways open in a crisis situation. The port of Tallinn Mine is really intended for sale in the RES document. Anyone who knows the location of the Miniport near the beautiful Noblessner district in the centre of Tallinn will understand that this is not a good location strategically. Keeping a large defence force in the capital will cause a great deal of problems both in the military crisis and during peacetime. The biggest problem in peacetime is access to the sea by the townspeople, the citizens of the capital of the sea. The naval base should be located in a place where ships and ship's personnel would be carefree to move to and from port. The ideal new location for the Estonian Navy is still in the mapping and analysis phase. But the government's guideline to find a better strategic location will significantly increase Estonia's security. So, these were the answers to the questions. I'm waiting for your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U146	They'll be started by Helir-Valdor Seeder. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U147	Thank you, Honorable Minister, for your answer. Unfortunately, you did not say any specific place where defence costs will actually be reduced, which costs will be saved when compared to the RES. All we know today is about orchestra and chaplain service, but it's ten percent of the total volume of RES deadweight, the rest of 90% we don't know anything about. Today, all you said was that you would be saved without reducing your defensive capabilities. Did you really confirm the RES in the government that it was not known in advance which expenditure you were reducing and where the capacity would be reduced? Are you just numbly reducing the number on the paper, and now you're looking for these places behind you? So far, no member of the government has said any other expenditure, but they say that you are dealing with it. Is that so?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U148	In the government, it was decided in the RES view that all ministries would have to save a certain percentage of their operating costs. Operating cost savings are the responsibility of the government. Each ministry has to submit a plan to save it. I referred to my sub-offices with a guideline that, by 4 June at the latest, all the heads of the sub-offices must present to me a vision of where they intend to save on operating costs. The deadline is June 4, but I think we can get this thing over with much earlier. This, of course, depends on the heads of the agencies.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U149	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U150	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! You have just reported that there are now 66 million more in this budget, and you have also talked about the development plan. I would like to ask if the development plan has already taken out the Defence Forces Orchestra and the chaplain service, because it is being approached. Or is it no longer necessary to sign in if he has already been liquidated? But my question is still that this 66 million [added] and still is not enough. It's just like in "The Nut Man" that there was nothing before, but now there is and now there isn't. What else should we give up if we don't have enough of this 66 million to maintain the military orchestra and chaplain service?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U151	Thank you, good questioner! I'm afraid you didn't notice my last answer. The government's guideline was to save on operating costs, i.e. on economic costs and personnel costs, and not on investments. We have 66 million more investments in the coming year. Secondly, I would like to make it clear that the Commander of the Defence Forces has made these decisions and has announced that he will make such a proposal to the Minister of Defence. I, the Minister of Defence, have not yet decided that the Ministry of Defence's administration as a whole will disappear both from the Order of the Defence Forces and from the Chaplain Service. First of all, the chaplain service, according to me, according to the Commander of the Defence Forces, is not intended to be completely eliminated, but to reduce the number of chaplains. Secondly, I understand that the Commander of the Defence Forces has really said that he does not see, in the current view of austerity, the possibility that the Orchestra of the Defence Forces will continue as part of the Defence Forces. We have already discussed, in cooperation with the Minister of the Interior, how to make better use of the two orchestras in carrying out traditional events. Today, the Orchestra of the Police and Border Guard Board, or the Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board, and the Minister of the Interior, are also facing the same problem. This problem is much wider and we are working on a solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U152	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U153	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Good minister! We had a meeting with the Commander of the Defence Forces, Herem, who clearly assured us that there was no plan to obtain anti-aircraft until 2030. There's not even such a thing on paper, not to mention actually starting to do it. You understand, of course, the scepticism of all of us when the Government of PortoRollo starts selling the sweetest real estate object in the centre of Tallinn to us by saying that it is not strategically sensible in defence. But I've got the impression from these cuts that you're just not really interested in your administration. You also gave the Commander of the Defence Forces a cut percentage and [you said] do what you wanted. I have a question: how much do you intend to intervene or intervene in what is being cut and how is being cut? Or did you give it all the free hands, and that's not your problem at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U154	I'm gonna start from the back. All the directors of the sub-offices were given a starting point of what percentage of their operating costs they would have to save. They come to the Minister of Defence with their proposals, and then we start to see how to solve these problems. Point two. Today, the Security Commission of the Government of the Republic has decided to reopen the National Defence Development Plan. Until autumn, the new resource will review how capacity will be developed and what will be there in ten years, so it will be the result of today's decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U155	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U156	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! Listening to all this and recalling your words six months ago still gives the impression that this is a pro-Russian government. We know that in reality the security situation has not changed at all, and these proposals and the debate that is taking place are completely depressing. What exactly was your assignment to the sub-offices? At the moment, it seems that you have told the sub-offices to cut off your hand or pull out your heart. How will these negotiations proceed and what will happen in your area, because you did not really talk about the cuts that the strategy envisages? You're talking about a story. When will we be able to get a concrete overview of what is supported by the Minister and not by the heads of the agencies? What is the political decision in these contexts?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U157	Dear Member of the Riigikogu, Onion! I am very surprised to hear such expressions from you, but it is your right. I have repeated several times today that 4 June is the deadline for the heads of agencies to be asked to present austerity points at the latest.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U158	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U159	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, manager. Good minister! I have such a question that these spirit-keepers and chaplains, who are now released from service, are many or few of them, I cannot tell you now, and also those musicians who are released from [service], are they going out of service on a totally so-called free life, going out of military service, or are they being reassigned, I don't know, to rocket troops or to submarine? What about them?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U160	Thank you for your question. We are discussing how to find the best solution to these problems and the situation that has arisen.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U161	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U162	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'd like to ask you about the Port of Mine. How is it supposed to be done, how the message is going to be, well, in plain language, saying that we don't have any money. But we're going to build a big, expensive new object, and during this long-term process, we're going to have to deal with keeping two very important objects running. The new port must ensure compliance with state secrets, communication, sea view and everything else. It's one side of the thing, how do we do a thing that's expensive when we say there's no money? The other side is the analysis of the removal of the Defence Forces in the city.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U163	Thank you, General. We have started a very active discussion with the Minister of the Interior and the Ministry of the Interior about how it is possible to enhance the security of Estonia and to do things more effectively by combining certain functions. One of these [options] is the possible interconnection of fleets. By the end of May, we must present the results of our preliminary analysis to the Cabinet. We have a nine-point plan on how to do things together with the Ministry of the Interior in order to increase Estonia's security. As I said, one of the major issues is the possible interconnection of fleets and the results of this possible unification will be analysed by autumn, whether and where the naval base should move instead of the Mine Port. But it's all in the analysis phase right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U164	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U165	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I don't want to be malicious in any way, and I think it's important to you, too, to national defence, not less than to us who are teasing you here right now. But in the field of defence, characters often have no less meaning than technology and other things. Reducing defence spending is, in itself, a very bad signal in the current international situation. You've been given some percentage that you need to fill, but what you've been clipping now doesn't show any military thinking. Looks like what the orchestra has to do with it. I have now Googled that no European country with an army is missing an orchestra. Can you give any examples? A military man knows how important the orchestra is in the army.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U166	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U167	I'm almost done. And there are several examples of history where the orchestra decided the fate of the battle. Can you motivate your choice?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U168	Thank you for your question. No, I don't think I'm being bullied. To be honest, I call it a debate, and it is very important that this debate is held here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. Where else? I would like to emphasise that the development plan of the KMAK, or the Ministry of Defence, will be reviewed precisely on the basis of the RES, i.e. the budgetary strategy of the country. The country's budgetary strategy will be reviewed annually. These are all changing sizes. If you are trying to say that the defence budget is going down, it is not going down. Yeah, he doesn't grow as much as the dream plan, but he doesn't. If this is 645 or 646 million this year, it will be 712 million next year. He's not shrinking. You can't say that. It's just a question of whether he grows as much as he expected. No, he doesn't grow that much. As far as the orchestra is concerned, I agree with both the Commander of the Defence Forces and that we must find suitable solutions for the Orchestra of the Defence Forces, because traditions are important and that is what we are dealing with. So all I can say is that if the Commander of the Defence Forces has made a decision for himself that there is no Defence Forces orchestra within the Defence Forces, I have not made a decision that it will disappear by cooperating with the Ministry of Defence's administration or any other form of Ministry of Internal Affairs. We're working on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U169	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U170	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! Well, it's pure demagoguery that the defense budget doesn't go down. It'll be down to 100 million in four years, but I want to ask you a completely different question. As we know, the Finnish Defence Forces are many times bigger than ours, with a defence budget of around 3 billion, which will also rise this year and next year. But if we look at the size of the ministries, the Estonian Defence Forces will be smaller in times and times, the defence budget will be smaller in times and times, but our Ministry of Defence will still be significantly bigger than the Finnish Ministry of Defence. We have many more people at work, i.e. compared to Finland, they are doing a completely ineffective job, if you can call it a job, maybe just an activity. If you're talking about cuts, are you looking at the Department of Defense, not just the Defence Forces?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U171	Honourable Mr. Pierce! I dare assure you that, like all other sub-offices, the Ministry of Defence will certainly stick together and very critically review those tasks that are being carried out today and [thinking] how things can be done more effectively.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U172	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U173	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I believe that there is no doubt that whoever controls the sky in the area of military action is one of the leading parties to this conflict, that is to say, it is the key to a successful battle. You said at our meeting that yes, we have planes in Ämar and elsewhere in the Baltics, but their number is so small and trivial that it is not comparable to real defence capabilities. It is incomprehensible to me why your government does not want to guarantee Estonia's protection and create mid-earth air control. The fact is also that NATO, which we hope will come to our aid, must pass before the legal glare, in order to reach a consensus in order to come here at all. If Turkey or Portugal says no, this is a very, very difficult question. What about Estonia's defence?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U174	Thank you. As you said, the most important thing is to know what is happening in our airspace, or to get a picture of what is happening at our sea and also in the air. The most important [information] will provide us with radars, but also, of course, our allies with whom we exchange information on a daily basis in order to understand what is happening in our neighbourhood. Rapid response, decision-making and the arrival of the allies will certainly be our key. We understand that it is not possible for us to be able to create a capacity for ourselves, purely at national level, that we alone can cope with our eastern neighbour if it is necessary. This means that one of our most important pillars is our broad-based defence. The second pillar is allies, and air protection will certainly play a role in this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U175	Andres Metsoja, please! Andres, please, turn on the microphone, we can't hear your voice right now. Andres, please check the microphone.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U176	[[Remote connection]] Can you hear me now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U177	It's a lot better to hear now. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U178	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Minister Kalle Laanet! It is, of course, sad to hear that we must go to the National Defence Development Plan. We were together for its preparation and analysis, and I thought it became pretty good and forward looking. I assume that the issues that have been raised are chaplain service, or we are talking about orchestras, is the top of the iceberg. If you actually go into the content, I'm asking if things are going well now by bringing this fleet under uniform control. It has been said many times, it has been entangled, and now it has been said that it has to go on. Is it also planned, for example, to increase the Ministry of Defence's budget to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget? Maybe as a minister, you can open up some of those possible facets where you can find these dead spots or redeployments.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U179	Thank you for that question. Indeed, we have discussed, together in the Committee on National Defence, possible alliances between fleets on several and several occasions. We have taken several steps forward, but today we do not have one more decision as to what form and at what time this could take place. As I mentioned earlier, at the end of May, both the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Defence will have to report on the state of our government. Personally, as Minister for Defence, I do believe that we can offer better security than we have done so far, by working more together at national level, by putting together functions and by taking advantage of all the opportunities for development. But, as you can see, every move creates a very serious resonance in society, and we need to consider these resonances so that there are no unnecessary tensions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U180	Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U181	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Some time ago it seemed that opposition politicians had misunderstood that national defence costs would be cut, and in fact there would be no cuts. Now it seems that, after all, there is still a plan to cut down, because there have been places that have been offered to cut down. If by June 4th or what date was it? If it turns out that these cuts are not acceptable, can we hope that defence costs will not be cut at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U182	Thank you, Mr. Tamm. I'm going to go over it again. In 2021, the Ministry of Defence has a budget of EUR 646 million, EUR 712.3 million is planned for 2022, EUR 700.3 million for 2023, EUR 697.1 million for 2024 and EUR 717.3 million for 2025. These figures are all higher than EUR 646 million this year. The government's instructions were to save operating costs. This does not come from defence costs, but from operational costs of defence costs, like all ministries. This is the goal that we are moving forward for now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U183	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U184	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, I am interested in your position on the development of coastal defence and the creation of mine-watering capacity. Are these among your priorities, and are you going to continue with them in the context of cuts?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U185	Thank you. The short answer is that they are among the priorities and that the acquisition of coastal missiles is on the table today, in cooperation with Latvia, although the status of the stars is that the Latvian Ministry of Defence must abandon joint procurement because their defence budget is decreasing. But we have a meeting with the Latvian Minister for Defence this Friday, and there I will have a final position on whether or not the Latvian Ministry of Defence will be able to participate in joint procurement with us.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U186	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U187	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Secretary of Defense! Do you agree with me that recent events, when we talk on 9 May about banning conscripts from wearing uniforms, possible closure of the Defence Forces Orchestra, as well as reducing or losing chaplain service, give a very worrying signal to our own people, the Defence Forces and our allies? [Do you] agree that a lot of things have gone wrong lately?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U188	Thank you. As I have said in the past, the decision of the head of the communication battalion to recommend or prohibit it depends on how we interpret it to conscripts not to move in uniform on 9 May was overstretched. We hope that this will never happen again in this form and that decisions will be made in an analysis and a larger picture. As far as orchestra theme is concerned, I have also said today that we are working on it. I'm sure it's a sign thing. This is certainly important not only for the orchestra and the Defence Forces, but also for the Estonian public. I can say so much about chaplain service that it was intended to be reduced and not completely eliminated.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U189	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U190	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, The sending home of the Defence Forces orchestra really hit the Estonian cultural community today as a very strong shock, and very many people have already expressed their thoughts on the subject. I understand from your answers that in addition to that, the Police and Border Guard Orchestra is also under attack. That would mean sending nearly 80 professional musicians home. Most of them have a higher education degree and a master's degree. There would certainly not be a place for them in the Estonian labour market now, where to go as musicians. I think you can even understand that this is not only a defence-political decision, but also a cultural decision, and that maybe the whole government should discuss it together. This is a decision made by the Commander of the Defence Forces in this case, but what will be the future schedule? When can we be more specific about 80 people's families and the whole music community? Is it even necessary to prepare so many musicians at the Music and Theatre Academy in the future? What will be the future schedule?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U191	Thank you. I guess we can talk about decisions once the decisions have been made. This situation is very fresh. Now it is premature to say a specific date. I have asked our chancellor to turn to the head of the Defence Forces Orchestra to discuss with the head of the Police and Border Guard Board's orchestra and let us know what their vision is to go on. Such requests have been made.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U192	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U193	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Austet Minister! Today's Russian news, of course, smiling in secret. The news of the disbanding of the military orchestra was a lot of fun and fun for the Russians. But that's it. I remember the time when the police and border guards were shamelessly connected, and the sea border guard was the most demoralized. They had to give up the uniform of their naval officer and put on the police stunts. Now you want to connect the fleets. I understand that savings are savings, but I would like to know whether Estonia will then be the only and unique country in Europe where the navy will, in addition to its tasks, be single border guarding and even performing police functions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U194	Thank you for that question. There are many other countries than Estonia in Europe where the navy performs these functions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U195	Good Minister, there are no more questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U196	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U197	Let's go to the negotiations and first ask for the Chair of Helir-Valdor Seeder. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U198	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. Unfortunately, we didn't get much smarter. The first question must have not been read out for the verbatim report, and I will read out here: has the international security situation changed and in what way, in contrast to your earlier position, you supported a reduction in defence expenditure? And we didn't get any comments from the Minister about this international security situation. The answer was that there was a corona crisis and an economic crisis, but that the international security situation had somehow improved, we know that such a response could not have been given by the Minister, and national defence must be based primarily on the international security situation and guaranteeing security for Estonia. Otherwise, there is no point in us, neither Parliament, nor constitutional institutions, nor cultural institutions, nor anyone else here, if we cannot guarantee our security as an independent state. So I would have expected an answer and an explanation. Orchestra and chaplain service. I understand these are the proposals of the Commander of the Defence Forces and there is no final decision here. I very much hope that the Minister will also take this message of today's debate to the Cabinet and think seriously about it. However, we learned so much from the Minister's response that the plan is to limit operating expenditure to cuts and no cuts in investment or procurement and that the defence plan will be implemented as it had previously been adopted. I would say that, if this is the case, that it is possible to cut economic and human resources costs in the context of the RES by 20 million a year, whether there has been a very high level of living or if there has been a premeditating future planned in the past, if 20 million of staff and operating costs can be saved in 2024 alone. Very questionable. As regards the port of mine, it was still not clear whether it was planned as revenue which was not actually received by the budget, whether the port would not be sold and whether it would remain. In that case, we've been sold air or we're dealing with a bigger kind of mess. I still didn't understand if the Ministry of the Interior had planned its marine unit for the Mineport. We have the knowledge that this is the case, and if planning in defence is at such a level that the Ministry of Defence does not know what is going on in the Ministry of the Interior and vice versa, there is reason to be even more concerned than to worry about these cuts. Finally, with regard to the RES, I would like to say that the RES cannot only be made on mechanical paper. At the moment, it seems that the government has done so, that it has been calculated by percentages and that everyone has been given the same cut-off tasks under the axe rule, which are to be taken into account, and that later this number is to be furnished by specific actions and cuts. It's an inside-out budget and an inside-out national budget strategy. It should certainly not be done in this form. Even in the current crisis and in the security policy situation, there are areas that should not be cut. We can see that spending is also being added to the health sector in this difficult economic situation and that these solutions are being found, done correctly, and that is the only possible solution. There are areas where the current balance should be maintained, and I say that the state budget is precisely where the current level and development plans and plans to date should be maintained, and not cut down, but to find points where operational cuts can be made. In the current security policy situation, it does not make sense to go into cutting state defence spending. I very much hope that today's debate gave the Minister for Defence a sense of determination and pressured him, in a good way, to go to the government. There is still time and opportunity to reconsider these decisions so that the long-term security of the Estonian state cannot be damaged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U199	Please, Tarmo Kruusimäe! Your turn.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U200	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good folklore! A good waitress and, of course, the people who are watching this live broadcast today, and you are concerned about what is going on here! If, now, politically incorrect and sometimes, it can be allowed, then there is simply this classic cow trade. That's what he looks like to us. See, the Estonia Theatre wants a house, but first the city hall, then the development square, and if you don't get it, we're gonna make this ugly block. Now the Commander of the Defence Forces says that if we have to save, the orchestra will go into the field and, of course, chaplains. We don't need too many either. Soon we may have Anneli Ott, the Minister of Culture, who, in fact, accused us of eliminating this orchestra, but he might also say that why we have so much to produce these musicians in the first place. The world is wide, nowadays everyone's walking with a flash drive, thousands of people jumping, wo-wo, and everyone's very happy. Maybe I'll take that funding away, too. Or why do we have to go to Eurovision? Well, once we won, but how much we've gone there, the most stable we've seen in the last few places. The Minister of Education has already begun and promised to withdraw money from the education of interest. That's how it goes. But it's not like the real place to trade or come forward with what kind of messages. This point of cutback reminds me of this five-four-three-two-one system during the occupation, which meant five years in four years, three people working with two people for one person's salary. We had three professional orchestras: the Border Guard Orchestra, the Police Orchestra and the Defence Forces Orchestra. We put together the Border Guard and Police Orchestra, now we're adding the Defence Forces. It's going to be one [orchestra], and then we'll say, "What's in it anyway, that's actually a fading art. " I have seen that orchestras still operate in several small towns of Estonia, but all such decisions are actually spread everywhere. "The Nukitsa Man" comes to mind over and over again the quote, where Mõhu and Tölpa ask the witch-moor, so how is it that there was nothing before and now it is, but now there isn't enough. And the sorcerer says: "One is lazy, and the other is stupid, and I must struggle on my own. " No one needed to take it personally now, it was from the movie, but I can take responsibility for it. June 4th, including the Estonian flag, will be 137 years old. The Army's orchestra is here at the official flagging. I sincerely and sincerely hope that this will not be their last hike, and I hope that during the Victory Day parade they will also be able to play. But most importantly, what obviously knows, well, if not the minister, those who have been in the ministry for a long time, that they don't snap. We say fool the field once, the field mocks you nine times. But if at one point you're gonna blow off a loyal man and then you're gonna say, "Oh, ups, csurr, we're gonna make a joke, come back, it's not gonna come. There's a pretty good amount of money invested in these people. How much investment will come out of this 66 million? Trade in this way under the responsibility of ministers is not acceptable. There should still be a specific message here. You can't come up with every raw thought. Next, perhaps the Minister for Rural Affairs will come and say that cuts are needed, such as agricultural subsidies. Once upon a time, they were able to do without any support. Then why can't we now? So that we can connect everything to everyone, let's do an app. But that means that in the end, it is the defence allies who offer chaplain services, who reject, watch and, of course, do the orchestra. The Defence League is a real person. How long is this volunteer gonna last? I think the sworn heads must find this money and uphold our morale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U201	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U202	I'd like three more minutes right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U203	Yes, you can. Eight minutes in total. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U204	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good Kalle! That day was 23 March when we discussed the sustainable development of national defence in this Chamber in the course of dealing with a crucial national issue. A lot of nice speeches were made here. We all admitted that the security situation is serious, that we should make an effort and that more needs to be done. Now it's been a while, and where have we come from? At the time, we were in a position where the development plan, as far away as it was at the time, was marked off that the initial level of defence costs we are going to move from this year is 2,29%. Now it's going to decrease a little, to 2.27%, because GDP is going to increase. The exchange rate would be 2,23% by 2024 and the target would be 2,23%. We wouldn't stop there. The Commander of the Defence Forces has presented three scenarios to us, if you remember. The first, ideal option was that the defence costs could be raised to 2.6% so that we could create new military capabilities, i.e. go ahead with mine-watering and coastal defence, do midland anti-aircraft, develop armoured manoeuvrability and other things that we decide to do and put into the development plan. If defence costs are only 2% or close to this, we are in serious difficulties and are unable to implement the plan that is currently being written down. In the meantime, we have come to the conclusion that by 2024 the new RES defence costs should fall to 2.02% and then probably remain at [this level] in the future, which will radically change the state of this development plan, which is essentially why a new development plan needs to be drawn up, in which many of the things we wanted to do would no longer fit. This raises the question of whether the security situation has improved in the meantime. No, it hasn't gotten any better. On the borders of Ukraine was the largest concentration of Russian troops since 2014, diplomats are being expelled, US President Joe Biden has explicitly called his Russian colleague a killer. This isn't good. Zapad is coming and the situation is not getting any better. Good Kalle! When Mrs Keit was here, or Mrs Keit, she was sitting there, and I sat next to her, and I talked to her very briefly, clearly and directly about the whole situation we are in. That we don't have a choice to make any good decisions. We have a choice between a very bad decision or a bad one. The bad decision is that we will not increase the cost of protection. A very bad decision is when... What do we really need to do to increase the cost of protection? We inevitably need to take out a loan. The calculation is that if we wanted to raise [protection costs] to 2.6% of GDP, we would have to borrow about 5% of GDP until the end of the decade. That is what I said to Mrs Keid, too, that this is the situation, and we have a choice which is more dangerous, whether this 5% increase in public debt or those power gaps that, in the event of war, would cause us very serious problems. Which is more dangerous? These two things, in my opinion, are not quite equal in the scales, and if there is a choice, then we'll probably have to go this way to borrow this money. Last week it was also a little sad when we discussed and voted here on the 'Estonia 2035' strategy, where we had proposed amendments to raise defence costs to 2.6% of GDP, or to implement the same plan. Unfortunately, the honourable coalition ambassadors voted down these proposals. The story isn't much good, now all that counts is action. We need some action. How, then, can we do these things? It is clear that, if it is now fixed that defence costs are 2,02%, then we can only proceed so that we take a separate defence loan, which would come from outside the defence budget and, of course, would mean a fundamental change in the government's financial policy. The previous government tried to do the same thing when Finance Minister Mart[in] Helme said that we should take 300 million loans in order to make 250 million dollars in midland anti-aircraft and 50 million dollars in missile complexes based on coastal defence. The coast guard went in, but we didn't find a consensus on mid-range anti-aircraft. The Commander of the Defence Forces was not very enthusiastic, nor was the then Minister of Defence. They told us why we can't do this. There were a lot of reasons that we couldn't do it because of the other one, because of the third one. Can't do it. But the question is, how can we do it? The way out of this dead end is that either the government is making a decision, or because it concerns the operating hours of several governments, the Riigikogu would decide that we would take a little less, 150 or 200 million euros in loans, for example, if we were to make a battalion, up to 300 million if we wanted to make two or three batteries. We would take this loan and ask the European Central Bank and, if necessary, the European Commission for a separate authorisation so that we can break the stability criterion here, because we have serious reasons to do so for security policy reasons. This could be the way out of this dead end, because it is clear that we cannot leave the cost of protection at 2.02% for this decade. I'll give you an example from the Finns next door. Finns will increase defence costs by 1.7 billion next year. Not by a million, but by a billion, to start procurement of fighters and also to tender for basketts. They will not delay anything, they will not reduce [defence costs] and they will take 27 billion loans in two years to revive the economy and this will increase their public debt to 75% of GDP. They do not regard this as any threat to the stability, financial stability or security of the State. We, too, actually need to find a way out of this situation, and that is what I dared to offer you right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U205	The next word will be Priit Onion. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U206	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good minister! It's been said that someone who can't keep an army will have to eat at some point from someone else's party. This reform party plan, which came out in public, is actually quite sad. I hope that 4 June will be the day we say that this was a failed operation that will not materialise. We know that the tree is known for its fruit, as the blissmaker said a few thousand years ago. (Matteus Gospel 12, 33). Nothing has changed about that. When we look at what has become known that there is something unprecedented or new in it, it must actually be stated that [there is] nothing new in it. If we recall the earlier times when the Ministry of Defence and the reform party have been involved in this area, there has been discussion about the loss of military service, about the transition to the payroll army, and there has also been a plan for the liquidation of military intelligence. In this sense, the pattern repeats, and as I said before, it makes you sad and makes you think. Kalle Laanet's words, which he said six months ago and which have already been multiplied several times today, are a "very good" sign of cuts in defence costs, which the eastern neighbour understands that security in this country is not a priority. How can we, other than in the service of unintelligible interests, call what we are doing today or what we heard from the Minister? The Centre Party even has an agreement with the United Russia, which is said to have been frozen, but it seems that the Reform Party is also carrying out some kind of incomprehensible [agreements], although it is confirmed in the public that this will not be done. But the steps that are being taken are very, very, very weird. If the Minister says we will have investments, but we will save on wages and economic costs, then there will be no way to make up for the investment in people in the future. When we look at how the Defence Forces itself describes the chaplain service, the main tasks of the chaplain service are: "the organisation and counselling of personalities, including allies, religious service, soul-consultation with the obligation to maintain confessional secrecy, morals and the will for protection in units and units, visiting and supporting sick and imprisoned persons, stressing human dignity in relations between the superior and subordinates, supporting the commanders in the assessment of the unit's ethical climate, supporting the members of the armed forces and their families on mission, supporting the souls of the fallen and their families, serving the injured and their families in a spiritual and spiritual way, participating in crisis resolution and communication, supporting military and state ceremonies with the clergy, cooperating with other support services." As the Minister knows, and as we all know, this is one whole. It is not possible for us to say by cutting off certain parts that everything is the same. Nothing is the same, and if you look at how the Defence Forces themselves have described the chaplain, it is a very important part that is being filled, which cannot be compensated with anything. I hope that these knowledge and understandings that have come out today and that, when we come to an understanding on 4 June of what proposals have been made by different sub-offices, they will not be supported by the Minister, and in the autumn, when we start discussing the state budget for next year, these cuts will not be reflected in this form, because the state is not an accountant. Otherwise, there wouldn't be any need for us politicians. In accounting terms, the balance of the budget can be established without us. Only the Ministry of Finance will do that. The question is what are the priorities of the various political forces and governments, and everything depends on it. So there's a lot of strength to keep us a country together! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U207	Now, please, Martin Helme! Please, eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U208	Thank you. I should first address this slogan, which has been dropped in passing, and which has become a stampvale. I mean, and I wonder how you can talk like that, that you have to cut it today, because the last Minister of Finance let the country in debt. I'm sorry! The absolute majority of the budget deficit created by the previous government arose in connection with the corona crisis. Yes, even in 2019, when we were in government for six months, the budget that we did not control was negative, but it was small [minus], and all these previous disadvantages really are not made by the previous government or by me. There's another reason why this is stupid. Despite the ridiculous cuts in which the Defence Forces orchestras are eliminated and the bread money is scraped together, I don't know where else, today's government will have exactly the same size in the coming years [the budget]. The magnitude of the mine is in billions. How can you talk so stupid? It seems to me that this can be done for the simple reason that it is essential to divert attention. And the main thing we see not only in the field of national defence, but in many other areas is that today's Estonian government is an anti-Estonian government that is detrimental to Estonia. Whether it's done out of stupidity or because they're working for someone, that's what I can't say, and I don't care. If we put the whole picture together, I don't think it's possible to come up with a more harmful government than it is today. So, what's the deal? Speaking specifically in the field of defence, there will be no anti-aircraft first. No, it's not. It's not meant to be. At least ten years hasn't even made a plan. There won't be an armoured capacity. No tanks. No plan, no plan. Strengthening the protection of the coast, which we pushed in last year with a great fight and quarrel, and for which we were accused of damaging national defence, is also trying to stall or do so as slowly and as inefficiently as possible. The blue eyes explain to us that the navy base in the centre of Tallinn is strategically in a bad place. Well, I don't know who they're talking to. A base that has spent decades with a huge amount of money, the logistics of which is built up, sold, and started from scratch somewhere else, somewhere further away, somewhere where it really doesn't do any good. On 9 May, the enemy will receive the ultimate propaganda message, which can be invented at all, so we agree to silent surrender. We will not even put on the uniform if we see any kind of hostile company towards the Estonian state. The Commander of the Defence Forces Herem came to us in the group and said that the uniform needed to be taken away in order to better prepare for the hybrid war. Oh, my God! If you don't recognize a hybrid war, why prepare here any more, and if the answer is to undress yourself anyway, then there's nothing more to talk about. There are no new things being bought, there is no plan to do anything smart with the existing ones, and propaganda is simply giving our hostile country a cup of teasing on a tray to mock us, and our own people are demoralised. Both this chaplain issue and this band issue are the issue of demoralisation. We set aside what was in our previous question, and on that end we put what we see both in the field of internal defence and defence. Civilian control has raised their hands. The ministers have washed their hands. You don't know anything, some head of office came up with that idea, and some other head of office came up with these numbers, you don't know anything, you're just ministers here. This is not government governance, it is not even pretending to run a state. And this is happening in a situation where we have the most difficult security situation during our period of independence. I am not going to draw a geopolitical map around the world, but it is enough to see what is happening in Ukraine. It is enough to see what is happening in the Middle East in the Far East. No matter where there's some trouble going on in these places, the first thing we know is that the Russians have always done is that they're trying their luck somewhere where there's an opening, and our government today just offers openings to the Russians, well just offers openings. Whose interests are they doing this? Not in Estonia's interest, anyway. However, I do not object at all to the fact that in every area, including in the field of defence, it is possible to deal with existing money more sustainably and to achieve a better result with the resources available. I'm sure it is, but for that, you have to beat these officials all the time. You gotta tell them that's how you do it, so you gotta get these numbers for me, so here's where I wanna get the result. Not to say no, no, I don't know anything, they put some paper on my desk. You can't do that, you can't do that! It ends so badly. What ends badly in national defence basically means the end of statehood can mean, plus some innumerable amount of human casualties. You can't play dumb around here, but I think we're playing dumb. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U209	Please, Mart Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U210	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I guess I'll sort of pick up where the previous speakers left off with their monologues. I'd like to start with that orchestra thing. Minister, thank you very much. When the Titanic went down, the orchestra played until the last minute. Until the last minute! Played for a very simple reason: to instill faith in people. To show people, yes, the ship's going down, but we're here, we're playing, you have a chance of escape. You're disbanding the orchestra. You know what happens to these people? There's a lot going abroad because a musician still finds a job. We know that musicians often have a little vodka, so many people start drinking. Well, some part of the party's starting to live in the mouth somehow, some part's retiring. You don't think about the future of these people, you just hit them with an axe: we don't need you anymore. Kiteus vodka, as the Finns say, but we don't need you anymore. It's as wrong as it could be. It's a signal to society that people don't pay us anything. The same applies to the chaplain. Go, friends, on a mission, we'll pay you a better salary than at home, but if you get killed, well, the family will see how [to start] they will. If you get damaged, let's see how you deal with your emotional problems. It's none of the country's business. The country sent you, but the country won't speak for you anymore. The state won't give you a hand, because we have human resources like sand by the sea, one person ahead or behind. That's a Stalinist attitude! Now specifically on defence issues. We had a meeting with Herem. My tongue is reluctant to call him a general because he's got the general's boots on him, but he's a battalion commander with no competence for strategic planning, long-term vision and big-picture vision. This is the battalion commander. It has now become clear that this person cannot cope with his work. Let me give you some examples of history. When World War II broke out and the air war began, the battle for England, a lord took on as one of his duties the renewal of the air force and the rapid reconstruction of the air force. He didn't make it. Very quickly it turned out this man couldn't handle it. He was immediately kicked out and given the task to another who did it. That's exactly what we saw in Egypt. One general came after the other, came Rommel and washed them like dirty laundry, and then Monty, or Montgomery, came and set things right and won the battle of El Alamein. Germany lost 240,000 men. Well, there were Italians there, so let's say the loss of the Germans was maybe a couple hundred thousand men who went to jail. The former [Generals] couldn't handle it, but then they found the general who did it. These are examples of history, but they also apply perfectly to us in Estonia. We cannot cope with these politically correct parquet generals' tasks, but the tragedy is that we are also unable to cope with our tasks by politicians. To the last minister, the Minister of the Interior, I said to my face today: my dear man, you have failed! You've failed with everything you've done or failed to do with these civil unrests, the demonstration of your former boss's authority and the fact that you didn't choose to wash your hands all the time, the Prime Minister didn't decide, the government didn't decide. Then who's gonna decide? So who's gonna decide? The Gods of Jupiter decide? You can't run a country like that! Now we see the same thing in the Department of Defense. The Gods of Jupiter decide, and then they tell us how we listen to specialists. I don't know what you're listening to. You don't have to be a specialist to know: if we can't guarantee deterrence in airspace control, we'll be bombed. We sacrifice thousands of young Estonian men in a war situation. Did you, Your Honored Secretary of Defense... Can I have an extension?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U211	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U212	Do you, Mr. Secretary of Defense, take responsibility for the deaths that medieval anti-aircraft could avoid? Money is a renewable resource. Money is abundant in the world, money is inflamed, money is printed in billions and hundreds of billions. Everybody prints. The British are printing, the Americans are printing, Europe is printing, Japan is printing. Everybody prints. But Estonia is tightening the belt. We are the smartest, we are not using this inflationary money as long as it costs, in our critical and increasingly critical international situation. Look at what's almost overnight in Israel, the Middle East. We are so smart in this situation that no crown, no cent, no euro will be added to defence expenditure. But we don't really keep what we already have. The latest news is they're trying to connect the fleets. When I was a minister, it was exactly the same in the Ministry of Defence, except their ships are largely at the docks, but the Home Office ships, the border guard ships are practically on the water all the time. They monitor, control, to some extent, even underwater space with sonars as little as we can with our capabilities, but they still work, unlike some of the exercises that we share with defence ships. This [fleet] is intended to be liquidated. Let's sell the harbours. Are you out of your mind? Are you out of your mind? Don't you remember what kind of tramboburai went to this same port of Mine in the 1990s when the Russian mob, in other words Russian intelligence, held it on its paw and tried to privatize it to its own? Then it didn't work, but now we're pushing it for sale. I don't know who's gonna buy it. What shell company's gonna buy it? Absolute incompetence. Absolute incompetence. I said this to the previous minister and I am also saying this now: the biggest enemy of the Estonian state and constitutional order is the government of Kaja Kallas in the current situation. Spread out! All right, all right, all right. All right, all right, all right, all Spread out and give the opportunity to those who are not such unaccountable and who do not listen to specialists, but who take the courage and responsibility and decision into their own hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U213	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U214	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good deputy speaker. Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Defence is a subject in which absolutely no discounts can be made. It is not possible to oversupply national defence, especially in a small country such as ours. We are today in an international security situation where there has not been a whole world since the collapse of the Soviet Union. Russia has taken over the flag of the Empire of Evil and bears it everywhere: in Georgia, Ukraine, Syria, now probably in the conflict between Palestine and Israel, etc. International agreements and agreements don't matter. Russia is growing strength and defence, always approaching its western border, where it is increasing its [military] capabilities. In our region, in the Baltic region, in the Baltic Sea district, it is not possible to consider the relationship between NATO and Russian forces anymore, because Russia is overthinking it over and over again. In such a security situation, there is only one possible adequate form of behaviour, and it is not to preserve its defence capacity, but to increase it, and that is what we have done until now. Even before the war, President Päts and his government neglected all the defence issues and making new investments and only woke up when the cannons were banging in Europe, but then it was too late to get something, orders were made over the top, but nothing could be recovered since Estonia was occupied and followed by 50 years of occupation, being under foreign power and serving foreign power. You'd think someone should learn a little something from it. But take the finger, today's government thinks that security and defence are not important, but some kind of fiction about budgetary balance is important. But what will the budget balance cost if we fail to defend ourselves if we fail to protect our coast when our airspace is under enemy control? Then we won't be able to move one truck, not to mention any other machines, armored machines or mobile artillery, because every move we make will be seen, every step we take will just be torn to pieces. As long as the government does not understand what is important to one independent state, [it does not understand] that national defence is a priority, that without it there is no other area, there is no education, no culture, no social sphere, nothing, or if there is, brainwashing, false and hostile [areas] imposed by a foreign state, for so long we have actually been pushed not only into the eavesdrop, but even into the rain. That is what makes Russia increasingly eager to test whether NATO, which has problems everywhere else, is still coming to our aid, because why should it come if we ourselves are reducing our defence expenditure and not taking care of [their military protection]? Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U215	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U216	[[Remote connection]] Today we are in a situation where our defence spending is already the lowest in NATO, we are even behind Latvia and Lithuania. We were once proud that our defence budget was bigger, we are smarter, we have not lost our military service, even though there was a great deal of pressure on the part of the Reform Party, but today we have to look down shyly, because we are reducing our national defence [budget] in today's security situation. Indeed, our allies, who have accused us that this 2% is not enough for today's challenges, can see very well that we are waiting and want them to come to our aid, but at the same time, at the same time, we are reducing our defence costs. It's not normal, and no one wants to help that kind of rag. I do have very legitimate doubts and questions about how the government can make decisions to cut our defence, damage our defence capabilities and security in a situation where there is really no need for any cuts, in a situation where the government is hiding EUR 300 million coming from pension reform, and [in a situation where] there are many other places where money can be saved. Not to mention that you could take out loans, just as other countries do, just as any normal person does when they organise their own lives, or [as does] the company, wanting to jump into development. Borrowing is quite normal and common, especially in today's situation, where we do not really know what will happen, what will happen to this loan and whether it will ever be repaid in the first place. This, too, sounds rehepapapastic, but yet the whole world is acting like this, and Estonia, which is cramping against the stream, is unfortunately simply going down the pipe with such a completely incomprehensible policy. I call on today's government to do two things: firstly, to immediately raise our defence and internal defence costs or simply to resign. It's a long time ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U217	Thank you. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U218	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. One thing that became clear as Chairman of the National Defence Commission was that 2% of GDP on defence expenditure is snow last year and it certainly makes no sense to talk about it in this form. This has been the goal of some era in Estonia. If you meet high military leaders from NATO and Europe, they will tell us directly without embellishment: do not talk about 2% of GDP, talk about real money how much you invest in national defence. This beautiful goal has done its job in words and, in fact, now words are not enough, it is necessary to actually go even further into action and, therefore, the uplifting of real money from 2% must be the goal of every Estonian government and, in a sense, the instrument. Looking at all the threats and strategic challenges that lie ahead for us, time has shown that they will not be reduced, but will continue to come. In my opinion, the development plan for national defence is also a very good example of these problems. Again, it is quite sad to note that today's government actually dealt with in Parliament as a key national issue the National Defence Development Plan, in which no possible threats or plans were yet discussed at the time. This area needs to be substantially changed, re-evaluated and now we hear that the development plan still needs to be opened up and re-looked at sectors and investments. What became clear during the previous government? It became clear that officials would not immediately come with politicians' ambition to put more money into national defence. Listening to today's debate and assessments, these officials must also be understood. These specialists have seen different times. Politicians have uniform ambition at first, then different, and it is quite understandable why they do not immediately grab a pencil and start writing off the ambitions of politicians. There's no confidence. This confidence should be provided by the National Defence Development Plan, a long-term plan, because every reform within the sector actually requires a cost at first and then, after a while, there will be a return on which new abilities can be developed. To me, it is strange, frankly, how this has been done in the area of defence. As an opposition politician, I say that it is a very good strategy to come up with simple, public-intelligible things to avoid taking money away from the defence sector. I am more than sure that national defence has more complex areas than the orchestra or chaplain service. I certainly do not want to make an assessment that they are irrelevant. I'm sure they're very important. I'm sure there's no way to tell the army to go for the attack, but we'll send back service. They are one whole, and they must be one whole, but today we are speaking somewhat funny or sadly against our own principle that no one is left behind on the battlefield. Unfortunately, the intended goals tell a different story. I am more than sure that in the area of defence, too, it will be possible to cut if it is necessary, but there must still be a big plan for this, and we must understand the cut-off for both the short and the long term, and these objectives must be broken down. To tell you the truth today, it sounds like ambition to put money somewhere else. In fact, there will be money in the state budget next year. Looks like they're making Pharisee cuts with some pretty confusing messages.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U219	Andres, do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U220	[[Remote connection]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U221	The Minister has the opportunity to make a reply and has expressed his wish for it. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U222	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm very sorry that I didn't answer the first question of the inquisitors precisely enough. The international security situation is indeed very turbulence. Looking at what is happening at the borders of Ukraine, looking at what has been happening in Belarus, not to mention the Czech explosion in 2014, which has now come out, looking at what is ahead of Zapad 2021, etc., I absolutely agree with you that the security situation has not improved anywhere. But to the previous speaker, to my good colleague Andres, I would like to say that you too, Andres, surprisingly! For the first time in history, Estonia's national defence expenditure will increase by over 700 million euros next year, with 712 million euros planned. Yeah, the dream was that the budget would have increased by 80 million, but it's 66 million. We talk all the time about how we're being cut. Why are you misleading the public? The increase in the budget is not just as great as the dream was, it is 20 million less. Okay, let's take away that 20 million from somewhere, for example, national broadcasting with a budget of roughly 30 million, 35 million. What are we canceling? To make it clear to the Cedar that the fleet of the Police and Border Guard Board is moving not to the Port of Mine, but to the Harbor of Wolfhead. I don't know where you took that information, but I don't have it. Speaking of our good colleagues in Finland, yes, our good neighbours have really made very clear decisions by replacing their fighters and also planning to increase the naval capacity with new basketts. But next door, they'll save on operating expenses. To invest more, they save their daily expenses. Just like we're doing now. Finally, what I want to say is that I understand that we politicians can throw our political and philosophical party messages at each other, but I do not think it is statesmanly to insult successive and ever-higher civil servants, in this case two generals, Elmar Vaher and Martin Herem. Yeah, I understand Elmar Vaher wasn't fired, and it's on your mind, and today Martin Herem is on your mind. They have been elected there by the selection board for senior state officials. Trust it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U223	An ambassador of the Riigikogu has the right to reply when his name is mentioned. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U224	Thank you. Yes, I really do have a wish for a short reply because my name was mentioned during the negotiations. Mr Minister, you said that we are mad at the people here, that national defence spending is increasing and is unprecedentedly high, exceeding EUR 700 million. My rhetorical question is that, if national defence spending is unprecedented, why are we talking today about cuts and why are there a proposal to eliminate the orchestra and abolish the chaplain service in the area of the Ministry of Defence? Is it a priority, systematic and well-thought-out action to promote and strengthen national defence in a situation where national defence spending is increasing, or is [liquidation] the result of cuts? We've all realized it's because of the cuts. Something's really wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U225	There are no more requests for negotiations. I will close this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-17_U226	There is now a free microphone on today's agenda. Everyone has the opportunity to sign up for a speech in a free microphone after a hammer hit. That's not what you want. The sitting is adjourned.
