ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-08_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Monday session of the 4th working week of the 5th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, there is the handing over of drafts and enquiries. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-08_U2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, I am submitting a draft law amending the Citizenship Act to the proceedings of the Riigikogu. The composition of the finalized government did much harm to the Estonian state, but one good thing was also. This initiative, which was taken in order to enable Estonian children to enjoy Estonian citizenship, can be welcomed. Indeed, during the previous coalition, a legislative amendment was adopted, if you remember that [initially] 1500 children should have become Estonian citizens. Now, because of the unintelligent inflexibility shown here in the course of the procedure, this target group, unfortunately, collapsed from 1,500 in such a way that only 130 children who could actually gain their citizenship were left. It was undoubtedly not right. But, as I said, the inflexible attitude of the government at that time did not allow it to change. Now we have a much more hopeful situation, a new government, and we hope that this unfortunate mockery of children can be corrected. This change has been in force for about a year and, in fact, as a result of this change, not 130 children, not even 30 children, but only three. I think it is not dignified by the Estonian state. We can actually give these children citizenship if we abolish this restrictive foolish provision, which calls for a waiver of previous citizenship even in a situation where it cannot be done. And that is exactly what the bill is proposing for our procedure. Let us hope for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-08_U3	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-08_U4	Thank you, President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, During the last days of January, the activities qualifying as medical corruption came to the public: acquaintances of hospital drivers, members of hospital councils, Russian Consul General of Narva and Chancellor Marika of the Ministry of Social Affairs, took advantage of the vaccination plan and placed themselves in a privileged position by introducing a coronal vaccine. According to the vaccination plan approved by the Government on 15 December 2020 and 19 January 2021, hospital managers, board members of hospitals, their friends and acquaintances, diplomatic corps staff and Ministry Chancellor Marika Priske are not priority recipients of the vaccine. These persons therefore constitute a preferential vaccination which was made possible due to their position and the associated influence. In this regard, on behalf of the members of the EKRE Group, I am asking the Minister for Health and Labour, Mr Kiigel, for a hearing with which we want answers to the questions we have raised.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-08_U5	Next, I would like to ask Mrs Heili Tõnisson, the representative of the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-08_U6	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching six draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Anti-Corruption Act (Fulfilment of GRECO recommendations and limitation of public declarations of interests of the heads of security authorities). In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Maris Lauri, Minister of Justice, when dealing with the bill. Secondly, the draft law amending the Defence Service Act. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Defence Kalle Laane. Thirdly, the draft law amending the competition law and related amendments to other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration in the proceedings of the draft law. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Financial Supervision Authority Act and other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus in the proceedings of the bill. Fifthly, the draft law amending the Media Services Act and related amendments to other laws. Anneli Ott, Minister of Culture, will represent the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the above-mentioned bill in the Riigikogu. And to the sixth, the draft law amending the Aliens Act (the right of appeal of the court against the verdict of the Visas). In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of the Interior Kristian Jaani in the proceedings of the draft law. All these six drafts have been transmitted electronically to the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-08_U7	Thank you. Helle-Moonika Helme, is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-08_U8	Yeah, I have a procedural question. It is known that the Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Riigikogu for remote sessions from tomorrow. We are meant to have very compelling reasons for this. For what compelling reasons did such a decision take place?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-08_U9	According to the current coronation, the Board of the Riigikogu discussed it and found it so, as we have such an excellent opportunity to do teleworking and participate in all meetings and procedures through it. This decision was therefore taken. Moonika Helme, are there any other procedural questions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-08_U10	My procedural question continues. There are weighty reasons when at least one fifth of the composition of the Riigikogu or at least one political group cannot come to the Riigikogu due to an objectively justified obstacle. Do you have any number of delegates who can't show up because they're sick or self-insulated? How much is this number?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-08_U11	The Governing Board has discretion and the Governing Board exercised that right. Peter Ernits, is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-08_U12	Yeah, it's a procedural question. I look at my colleagues, the lines are straight. Only in front of General Laaneots is one nest, an empty nest. How many of our colleagues, then, are there in this wicked illness, or is it a service?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-08_U13	According to the information I have, no one in the Riigikogu is sick at the moment. Thank you. Let's get back to the drafts and the debriefings. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-08_U14	Dear Riigikogu! The Fatherland Group will pass on a draft law aimed at enabling cross-border movement to be subject to a general testing obligation either before entry or immediately after entry. At present, the logic of our Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases is that, first of all, the diagnosis of an infectious disease should be required and, if a person refuses to do so, quarantine should be used as a leverage, for which health benefits are also provided. But actually, the system is working backwards today. We have unremunerated self-isolation at entry, and the alternative is testing. In view of the current widespread spread of coronavirus mutations across borders and the behaviour of the countries of our region, including Finland's intention to introduce a general compulsory testing in the near future, as well as the fact that Sweden has done so, it makes sense to provide the Government of the Republic with an additional tool. This draft law does not provide for [the testing requirement] to be mandatory by the legislator, but specifically to provide the government with an additional tool for the movement of national borders to prevent the corona virus. We consider it reasonable to close this legislative gap. And I can stress that the members of the scientific council have also suggested that general testing should be used to control mutated forms of virus immediately after entry or before entry. If, for any reason, persons do not consider it possible to do so, they have an alternative choice of quarantine in accordance with the principle laid down in the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-08_U15	Thank you. On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted seven drafts and one inquiry, and the Management Board decides on their further processing in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Now we're conducting a presence check. Aborting presence check. Kalvi Hard card's gone somewhere. Thank you. Looks like this little problem has been solved. We're re-examining the presence check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-08_U16	98 members of the Riigikogu are present and there is no 3. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we will go to the clarification and approval of this week's agenda. The Committee on Culture has proposed to remove the 5th and 6th item from the agenda of the Wednesday session of this working week: 'Educational Development Plan 2021 to 2035' and 'Estonian Language Development Plan 2021 to 2035'. Peter Ernits, is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-08_U17	Yeah. That's the second time two of those long-baked cupcakes leave the table. Aren't they that mature?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-08_U18	Well, maybe those little cupcakes aren't that ripe. This must be asked by the Committee on Culture why it was decided to exclude them from the agenda of the sitting. But that's what we came up with. Together with this amendment, I will vote on the approval of the agenda for the 4th working week of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-08_U19	There are 95 members of the Riigikogu, there are no respondents and 4 members of the Riigikogu are impartial. This week's agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-08_U20	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! We are going to the extraordinary election of the Vice-Presidents of the Riigikogu, which is the only item on the agenda today, Monday. According to § 6 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, we have on the agenda today extraordinary elections of the Vice-Presidents of the Riigikogu. Siim Kallas, the second vice-president of the Riigikogu, resigned on 28 January. According to § 69 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, the Riigikogu elects two vice-chairmen from among its members. In organising elections, the Election Committee of the Republic follows the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Before going to the election procedures, let me briefly introduce you to the election of the Vice-Presidents of the Riigikogu. The Vice-Chairmen of the Riigikogu are elected at the same time. A member of the Riigikogu may appoint a candidate. The proposed person must consent to the application. Voting shall be by secret procedure and shall be carried out by means of a ballot paper. Every member of the Riigikogu has one vote. The votes shall be taken publicly as soon as the vote is closed. Objections to the organisation of the vote shall be submitted to the selection panel immediately after the end of the vote and on the outcome of the vote, without delay after the results of the vote have been announced. The result of the election shall be announced immediately after the possible protests have been examined. The first vice-chairman of the Riigikogu will be the candidate who gathers the most votes. The second vice-chairman of the Riigikogu will be the second candidate remaining in the number of votes. An additional round of elections will be held among the equal votes gathered. I will present the voting procedure before the vote is announced. Do the members of the Riigikogu have any questions about what has been said so far? No, it's not. Thank you. Does one of the members of the Riigikogu wish to appoint a candidate for the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu? A written submission is required for this purpose. Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-08_U21	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I present Hanno Pevkuri as the candidate for the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Hanno is a longtime member of the Riigikogu and an experienced politician; he has been on the Board of the Riigikogu before. I believe Hanno is an excellent candidate for the position of Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, who, with his experience and balance, can build bridges between coalition and opposition in this hall. I call for his support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-08_U22	Thank you. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-08_U23	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose Helir-Valdor Seeder as a candidate on behalf of the Group of the Isamaa Party, because, as we know, he, unlike Siim Kallas, does not wish to resign, but still goes on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-08_U24	Thank you. Hanno Pevkur, do you agree to apply for the post of Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu? Please also give your consent in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-08_U25	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-08_U26	Helir-Valdor Seeder, do you agree to apply for the post of Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-08_U27	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-08_U28	Please also give your consent in writing. Thank you. Looks like there's no more proposals. I close the list of candidates for Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu and announce a break for the appointment of candidates for Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu on the ballot paper. I'll give you a signal when the break's over.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-08_U29	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! Break's over. The Riigikogu Election Committee is ready to carry out the extraordinary preparation of the Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu. Members of the Commission are checking the voting boxes right here before you and closing them with security seals. The boxes are sealed. Honourable Riigikogu! Allow me to introduce the voting procedure. Six voting areas have been prepared for the selection. The first is located in the lobby of the Riigikogu's main building on the first floor, the second is located in the conference room of the second floor of the southern wing L240 (Otto Strandman's room), the third is located on the second floor of the southern wing in the art hall of the Riigikogu, the fourth is located on the second floor of the Riigikogu's main building in Kalevipoja hall, the fifth is located in the third floor gallery, i.e. in the exhibition hall and the sixth is located in the inner courtyard of the Riigikogu. Every member of the Riigikogu shall vote in the voting area of which he is on the list. We ask the members of the Riigikogu not to go to vote at the same time, but to proceed to the alphabetical order of the list, which means that those who are in the middle and at the end of the list should vote accordingly later. We ask to enter the voting area one by one and follow the guidelines of the voting organisers. While waiting to enter the voting area, we ask for a distance of at least two metres between us. The Election Committee gives a voting slip to a member of the Riigikogu. I ask the members of the Riigikogu to show the electoral body their identity document (certificate, passport, identity card or driving licence of the member of the Riigikogu) in order to receive a ballot paper. The member of the Riigikogu will sign the ballot paper and then remove the ballot paper from the table. For the purpose of signing and filling in the note, please use either one-time or one-time writing tools in the voting room. The ballot papers shall be completed behind the pass of the vote. A member of the Riigikogu shall tick a cell with a cross on the ballot paper at the name of the candidate he or she votes for. Voting ballots which bear the name of more than one candidate or which do not bear the name of any candidate shall be deemed invalid. After completing the ballot paper, you will break the ballot paper, go to the voting box and let your ballot paper in the voting box personally. If you have erred or violated the ballot paper and you notice it before you are put in the ballot box, you have the right to receive a new ballot paper when you return the corrupt note. Voting ballots which bear the name of more than one candidate or which do not bear the name of any candidate shall be deemed invalid. At the time of the vote, only members of the electoral committee and persons serving the electoral committee may be present in the voting area in addition to members of the Riigikogu. According to § 87 (5) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, members of the Riigikogu have 30 minutes to vote from the beginning of the voting. The vote shall begin five minutes after the start of the intermission. It's 3:35 now. I shall give a signal of the end of the vote. Do the members of the Riigikogu have any questions about this? No, it's not. Then I declare the vote in the extraordinary election of the Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu. Break begins until 16.05.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-08_U30	Ladies and gentlemen, I declare the vote closed in the extraordinary elections of the Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu. Please bring the ballot boxes to the hall. In the meantime, when the boxes are brought, I ask whether the members of the Riigikogu have protests about the organisation of the voting. No, it's not. Thank you. First of all, please check the voting boxes and that the security seals on the ballot boxes are not damaged. Please! Looks like everything's okay. I would ask the members of the electoral commission to start counting votes. [[The election board reads the votes.]] I would ask the Republic Election Commission to read the votes publicly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-08_U31	Honourable Riigikogu! I am going to publicly review here before you whether the initial voting results correspond to reality. I will read the names of the candidates for the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu and the votes given to them. Hanno Pevkur: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60. Helir-Valdor Seeder: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40. There were no bad notes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-08_U32	Thank you. I ask the Election Commission of the Republic to draw up a record of the results of the vote. I will read the minutes of the Riigikogu Election Committee on the results of voting in the election of the Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu in Tallinn on 8 February 2021. The Riigikogu Election Committee established the following figures when counting votes: the number of members of the Riigikogu included on the list. 101, the number of members of the Riigikogu who received the ballot. 100, the number of members of the Riigikogu who took part in the vote. The number of votes cast on the candidates for the vice-presidents of the Riigikogu: the number of votes cast by Hanno Pevkur, candidate for the vice-president of the Riigikogu, 60, the number of votes cast by Helir-Valdor Seeder, candidate for the vice-president of the Riigikogu, 40. Signed by Oliver Kask, President of the Republic Election Commission. Any protests? There are no protests. Then I ask the Republic Election Commission to make a decision. I'm going to read the Republic Election Commission's decision. The decision to determine the results of the election of the vice-presidents of the Riigikogu has been taken on the basis of subsections 7 (6) and 82 (1) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act. The Election Committee has decided to declare Hanno Pevkur elected as the first Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu and to recognise Helir-Valdor Seeder elected as the second Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. This decision shall enter into force upon signature and shall be signed by Oliver Kask, Chairman of the Election Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, The new vice presidents have been elected. Congratulations, Hanno Pevkur! Congratulations, Helir-Valdor Seeder! I thank all the members of the Riigikogu and the Riigikogu Election Committee! The Vice President's election is over. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-08_U33	But our trial today is not over yet. Everyone has the opportunity to sign up for a speech in a free microphone after a hammer hit. But there are no requests, the trial is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, you have the opportunity to congratulate the larval vice presidents. Kalle Grünthal has a wish to speak! Court is not adjourned, I shall cancel it. Please, Kalle Grünthal!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-08_U34	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk today about two related events that have been very much reflected in the media. First event. The Estonian patriot and the anti-corona activist who lost his leg as a soldier for the Republic of Estonia, Andrei Vesterinen, make a phone call to one of the leaders of our scientific council, Irja Lutsar, and wants to know why the scientific council does not record its activities in order to [be able to] find out what the bases on which the restrictions are based and where they can get information about restrictions. Irja Lutsar, of course, as an honest and sincere person, says that yes, we receive information from a number of magazines, scientific publications, the Internet, etc. But Andrei Vesterinen is not satisfied with this and wants a public debate on this issue, because the restrictions are causing huge numbers of businesses, economic and social damage, etc. This video comes to the public via the Internet, and after that there will be an insane witch hunt for Andrei Vesterinen, even though Andrei did not ask for anything that would have touched Irja Lutsar's personal life, but talked about issues concerning the public. I also think it would be extremely logical for the decisions and other things of the scientific council to be recorded, because there are protocols in the Riigikogu, there are protocols in the committees and there are protocols in the NGOs to see what is behind the decision. But that's not the case in the science board. This is, in principle, an interesting association that can be compared to the Bilderberg Group, whose decisions at meetings are kept secret and the public is only informed of the'recommendations' that should be made. Of course, all this was followed by an angry reaction of Estonian scientists, led by Tarmo Soomere, President of the Estonian Academy of Sciences, stating that this is a direct threat to Lutsari and an informed attack on the entire Estonian state. Isn't it amazingly similar, by the way, to the event of the 16th century when Giordano Bruno claimed that the Earth, along with other planets, revolves around the sun at the center of the universe? The Inquisition burned him alive, accused of heresy, for Bruno was not prepared to give up his views. There's a resemblance. But really, you shouldn't tell me to shut up. You should take the tension out of the debate. The second event, the attack on the chief doctor of the North Estonian Regional Hospital, Peep Talving, who was spilled through the urine. I'm not saying there hasn't been an event. But what followed is, in my opinion, a little suspicious, who I've also been exposed to the evidence investigation. First of all, Talving in 'Ringview' tells us that he didn't wait for the police, took photos of the scene, took a canister that still had urine thrown at him, and had it tested in a regional hospital. TV3 sends a message that there are two video cameras, but unfortunately they have different individuals. The video cameras are recording during the day, but the event took place at 7:00 p.m. in the evening. I don't mean to claim there was no attack, but the tragic threads refer to a very similar case of Mary Kross, where supposedly men wearing EKRE jackets threw stones at people. The next day, Kaja Kallas states in his statement that if we tolerate such behaviour in social media, it will also appear on the streets. For some reason, without any factual and logical justification, Kaja Kallas knows exactly that it all started with hate speech on social media, nothing else. It seems to me that this is all a prelude to the hate speech law that is about to be dealt with here in the Riigikogu. The medieval stakes have disappeared, but the techniques have become more refined.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-08_U35	Thank you. There's no further request. Today's trial is over.
