ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the session of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday of the 8th working week. Please ask the members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts or questions. Please! I don't see that wish. We're conducting a presence check. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U2	76 members of the Riigikogu registered.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U3	Our first item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Electronic Communications, the Building Code and the State Fees Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Kristen Michal, Chairman of the Economic Commission, to present the Chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U4	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I am before you, on behalf of the Committee on Economic Affairs, reporting draft 437, which is the draft law amending the Law on Electronic Communications, the Building Code and the Law on State Fees, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and this is at second reading. This bill has a long history, we have discussed it several times in this Chamber. The last long debate, or such a longer, several-hour debate and answers to questions on exactly the same subject-matter, took place when we had a memorable here, I don't even know how to call it a stalling or an obstruction of the sitting. Yes, "obstruction" is the correct term. So its content doesn't bring much surprise to anyone, especially to people who know things. After that, this bill was withdrawn, and now we are faced with the same bill being reopened. It's gotten a lot thinner than it was at the time, because parts have been taken out of it. I will give an overview of what we did in the Commission before the draft came to second reading. The Commission discussed this on Tuesday, 9 November. We were visited by MKM's field people, the Head of Communication, Nirk, the Head of the Cyber Security Department, Rikk, and others who commented on the address sent. In fact, we have just discussed a few proposals as the main topic. The first proposal, which is also before you, but which is not to be voted on, because it did not receive any votes in favour in the committee, is Mr Korobenik's proposal. Perhaps, in terms of content, it overlaps almost with Mrs Elisa's proposal: to put in the draft the principle that compensation should be paid if this draft imposes any obligations on economic operators and therefore has to make inevitable changes and do so more quickly than they would otherwise have done. Well, it's very simplistically explained. These proposals are also available on paper. There was a debate on this. As the Commission's overall stance has been that the country could have a wider compensation mechanism for any changes in the security field, the Commission continued to maintain this position and forwarded it to the representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. We promised or said, talking to the MKM representatives, that we would send it to them in writing. We'll probably send it to more than MKM, government representatives, so everyone else has that information. The second proposal we discussed concerned the dates of entry into force. The dates of entry into force have also been changed here, it is a proposal from the Commission and the Commission took full account of it. What was previously February 1, 2022, has been changed by March, and [previous] March has been changed by April. The Commission also had to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 16 November and the proposal to close the second reading. When the second reading is closed, it is proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and that the final vote be taken on 24 November. All were consensual decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U5	Andrei Korobenik would like to ask. Please, Andrei!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U6	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. I have a question about the same compensation mechanism. In Finland, it exists at law level. From the presentation by the chairman of the committee, I understood that the plan was to move forward with such a comprehensive scheme. But what's the idea of when this scheme might come up? Why was it specifically delegated to the government, and why is it not the intention of the Commission itself to proceed with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U7	Thank you. If I have now quite rightly heard this question, I hope [that I have heard], we expressed the same point here in the debate on the earlier draft, as in the debate on this draft, and as in the debate on the questioner's proposal in the Commission, that we believe that the state's capacity, for example in the field of security or health, could be agreed with subjects in order to make any rapid changes, to be one tool, in the absence of a better term, which the state and the executive have. If you ask who should develop it, I think that the legislative process has been set up in such a way that we still place this order on the executive authority: [do] an analysis, [present] the corresponding wording and put together the corresponding toolkit. I think that its participants can certainly be the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, Finance, Government Administration and Justice, and why not the Ministry of Defence. So, yes, I think it's a broader job to be prepared by the executive. That is why we are in this position, and we are proposing this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U8	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U9	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Indeed, the Riigikogu has already discussed such compensation issues on several occasions. The first was related to the topic of fur farms, where, in fact, the topic of how to compensate for these costs was actually very acutely raised, if this area were to be closed for an entrepreneur in Estonia. At the time, I felt that it was true that the legislator had the right to make changes and those things were disputed in court. At the time, it was not said that it should be analysed, although the sector's representatives raised this issue with great sharpness. I understand there's been some kind of change of direction here. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U10	Thank you. I can't tell if there's been a change of direction. I can simply describe what the Commission's dominant attitude is. We, as representatives of the people in the Commission, found within our mandate that, in our view, such an opportunity could be in the toolbox of the executive power. Especially given that there are better and worse times and changes often need to be brought about more quickly in a crisis situation. However, in the case of the communications market, for example, it is not because of the crisis that this change is coming, but because of security requirements. In the communications market, for example, it is still being provided, at least MKM has carried out such an analysis and said that sufficient time will be given for the changeover. They therefore consider that no compensation is necessary for this draft. Whether he's a change of direction, I don't know. I would rather say that there should be such a mechanism. The mechanism does not mean that it is always used, and even if it is used, it does not necessarily mean that the offer is always acceptable to everyone. But at least there's a way. So that's why I think there might be a way. Is it used? Once again, every case must be assessed and then one can ask if there has been a change of direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U11	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U12	Thank you. I'm on the same subject. On Monday, I asked Minister Andres Sut that such a compensation mechanism, spoken of, might someday come when it might come? Andres Sutt said it wasn't coming. You say it could and should come and somebody sort of does it. So which one's the right position? Is Andres Sutt wrong in his categorical statement? He also pointed out that the transitional period was long enough and that there would be no need for a compensatory mechanism. I think it could be if action in any area was banned for any reason. In this case, it is still investments that have been made at a time when they were not security risks, as someone said. They became a security risk after the investments were made and someone discovered that maybe it wasn't quite right. So I'm asking about the compensation mechanism.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U13	Thank you. I think, or it seems to me, that I cannot make a categorical claim that Andres Sutt may have expressed his opinion on this particular draft, and in that case he was not wrong, and even you did not get it wrong. Indeed, there is no mechanism in this draft. If you ask whether it should exist on a wider scale, yes, that should be the Commission's position. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U14	No further questions, thank you. I'm opening negotiations. I don't see the words, I'm closing the negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. The first amendment has been tabled by Mr Korobenik; the commission has failed. And as you have already heard, pursuant to § 106 (2) of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, this proposal is not to be voted on. The second amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the lead committee has taken full account of it. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 437. We're done with second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U15	Our second item on the agenda is the first reading of the draft law amending the Family Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 474. This will be introduced by the government's Justice Minister, Maris Lauri. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U16	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will introduce you to the draft amendment of family law and other laws aimed at changing the procedure for determining maintenance. It is a fact that many families do not stay together and for various reasons break up. Families with children also separate. This means that parents must agree on a number of matters concerning children: housing, meetings, financial support and other things. Undoubtedly, it is best for parents to reach agreements themselves, but at other times, it is also necessary to include external help in the form of counsellors or family mediation. Referral to the courts to settle disputes between themselves should be a last resort, as it is the most time- and nerve-consuming but also financially costly for the parties involved, particularly children. However, it is clear that there are circumstances in which there is no agreement without a court and where it is not even right to apply for it. I'm pointing to cases of violence. This draft relates to how financial disputes can be resolved, i.e. how to determine a living. The proposed solution is suitable for both mutual and conciliation agreements and judgments. These are basic principles that should be used to determine maintenance. They are complemented by elements that allow for a wide range of flexibility to take account of different circumstances. This solution has been sought for a very long time. On 11 June 2018, Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, sent out the intention to draft the draft. The first round of coordination of the draft act took place under the leadership of the previous Minister of Justice, Raivo Aeg. All political parties represented in the Riigikogu have been in governments where the topic of maintenance has been dealt with. I therefore think that I cannot say that this is something very novel or unnegotiated. All political parties have had the opportunity to participate in the drafting of this draft; everyone has been aware of it. Of course, the Riigikogu has the opportunity to make changes to the proposed solution. But I really hope that they are not of a fundamental nature, because it has taken several years to reach the current result and has included very broad engagement and cooperation, precisely in order to find the best possible solution. I will start by relying on a study by the end of February 2020 on a child's need-based minimum livelihood. It analysed very thoroughly, involving scientists and specialists, as well as those involved, i.e. parents, children's expenses, the age of children, and the place of residence. This study is the basic basis on which the draft solution for the creation of a livelihood was developed. In addition to the planned development, the study and the two coordination rounds, several meetings with relevant organisations and bodies took place during the preparation of the draft. The two round tables are the most remarkable: one on 13 January this year, during the previous government, and the other on 21 June. In January, the parameters for maintenance were discussed and the original formula for maintenance was simplified. In June, we discussed transitional provisions, i.e. how to move from the current regime to the new regime and what to do with the existing judgments. From these solutions in the future. Breaking up always hurts. There's a lot of emotions, hurting, disappointment and the hostility that comes from it, sometimes the desire for revenge and more. Emotions are understandable, but when separated, parents should always give priority to children's interests and, as adults, reject their personal bitterness and pain. This draft does not deal with malicious bailiffs, those who simply fail to pay a living or reduce their income to pay as little as possible for a living. This bill deals with the principle of maintenance. The current standard solution, where maintenance depends on the minimum wage, does not in any way relate to the needs of the child. This procedure has to be changed for this reason alone. What is the provision of a maintenance arrangement? To begin with, I will introduce you to the proposed maintenance formula and then explain the important aspects. According to the draft, the base life would consist of five components. Firstly, the basic amount of maintenance due to the minimum needs of the child, which was found in the above-mentioned study. The study averaged EUR 362 per month. Since parents must participate in the child's upbringing in solidarity, half of this amount falls to one and half of the other parents, i.e. the basic amount of maintenance should be EUR 181 based on the survey. The amount of €200 in the draft submitted to you is due to the fact that the study was carried out on the basis of 2018 data. In the meantime, the standard of living and the cost of living have increased. According to the draft, this basic amount, EUR 200, must be indexed on 1 April each year to the consumer price index of the previous year, which takes account of the increase in the cost of living. Once again, EUR 200 is not the child's total need, but half of it. The second component is 3% of the average gross salary of the previous year. Once again: it will be included in the calculation on 1 April because it will be published by then. This will take into account the increase in the standard of living. Other indicators were also considered, but the average gross monthly wage is understandable for people, it is published and unambiguous. Of course, if parents start making an agreement with each other, the debtor's actual salary or income may be used instead of the average salary. In this way, individual income dynamics can be taken into account. By 1 April, most people should also have submitted their income tax return for the previous year, so the data set is also clearly available. The third component is family benefits, which are child benefit and child-rich family support. As a general rule, family benefits are received by the applicant party, thus reducing maintenance. Why are family benefits taken into account? The reason is that they are intended to compensate the costs of the child by the State. Thus, if the state compensates for a part of the child's costs, the burden on the parents will be reduced by that amount and a reduction in the amount of maintenance is justified. But here, too, this is happening equally for both parents. In other words, if one child has a child allowance of 60 euros, the maintenance would be reduced by 30 euros. If there are three children, the total amount (60 + 60 + 100 + 300 = EUR 520) is divided first into three children and then another half so that the maintenance per child would be reduced by 86.67 euros. Next, account shall be taken of the child's shared place of residence. If a child spends an important time with his or her other parent, he or she will inevitably also incur certain costs, such as the creation of a place to sleep and study, hygiene supplies and food. It is therefore justified that maintenance is also somewhat reduced on this basis. The draft proposal reduces maintenance if the child stays with the obliged parent on an average of 7 to 15 working days per month during the year and the reduction is proportionate to the time spent there. The fifth component is to take into account the number of children in the same family who receive maintenance. This is due to the fact that for several children certain costs are lower. The rate of reduction for the next child is 15%. In its original version it was 30%, but based on the feedback it was found to have to be significantly reduced. A child's livelihood will not be reduced if the child's livelihood is multiple and the child's age difference is more than three years. It is equally important that the reduction takes place only if the children live in the same family. It's a five-component formula for base life. Of course, there are also justifications and situations where maintenance can be greater or smaller. This increase is based, for example, on the actual needs of the child, parents' incomes, the actual distribution of spending between parents, as well as other circumstances. For example, if a child has been in a costly circle of interest while living with his parents, the separation of parents should not force the child to give up the circle of interest. If parents were able to provide this when they lived together, they should be able to do so by living apart. The financial contribution of the higher-income parent has always been higher, and should continue to be so. Of course, parents can also agree that one of them will pay the costs of a music school or summer camp, for example. It's all a matter of agreement. The reduction of the bachelor's seat is only possible for compelling reasons. There will actually be no change in that regard. There are still two important reasons. First, a parent's inability to work, which does not allow him to earn enough income. However, if a parent is able to work, he should find a job that would enable him to earn income. Secondly, a child or children who would prove to be less insured, perhaps it is a matter of several families. It cannot be that children in one family are materially better off than others. I'm talking about the so-called first marriage, the second or third life together. It is not constitutional either. In fact, this is one of the arguments that is currently the most frequently brought before the court to review the maintenance. So much for the principles of making a living. I hope you find that everything here makes sense. More complicated, as with so many other things, is how to switch to a new system. I'm sure it's caused a lot of passion. As a base point, the following has been found and decided on this draft. The new regime will apply to new maintenance cases, i.e. the judgments already in force will normally remain in force. There is one exception. They are maintenance defined in the judgment as a minimum subsistence allowance or as half of the minimum wage, in essence as a minimum subsistence allowance. They shall be frozen at the current level. What is the reason for this choice? First of all, it is certainly legitimate to expect, but also that the legislator does not, and should not, at all, annul the judgments reached as a result of the often very complex disputes. All of this would give rise to a great deal of resentment in society, from the fact that the livelihood that has been set would be significantly reduced, or from the fact that the change will create new passions and increase the need to go to court and argue more. We offer a solution that will not reduce the livelihoods that have been established so far. However, of course, as is currently the case, the parties concerned may themselves agree between themselves or bring them to court. This option remains valid. But on the part of the legislator, we propose that those decisions that are already in force should not be amended. We found that we cannot continue to be in a situation where the minimum livelihood, which is currently EUR 292 per month, continues to rise. And it increases because the minimum wage is increasing. The minimum wage has nothing to do with the needs of the child; it has basically been the wrong solution. It will rise as a result of the agreement being made by employers and employees, and it will reflect more economic capacity and well-being and readiness of businesses. It is certainly very positive that the minimum wage is increasing, but it has also caused problems. This has caused problems for responsible earners, as incomes have not always increased at the same rate as the minimum wage. More and more parents are in a situation where they are unable to pay their living on the basis of their best wishes, or where there is a huge inequality in the treatment of children caused by another family. I would like to stress once again that I am talking about responsible parents who are in difficulties. On the basis of information from the courts, there is an increasing number of parents who turn to the court with a request to reduce their maintenance due to the fact that the payment of maintenance is too burdensome for them or causes a very large difference between children. I think you understand. For a child, it is better that the livelihood is somewhat smaller than that it does not grow quickly or is not paid at all. Even if the children of one family are more materially insured than the children of another family, being one together parent, it does not really help parents and children to communicate well and politely with each other. This may lead to additional complications. The kids are gonna get hurt because they broke up anyway. For us adults, it is important that we get as little pain as possible, in a way that does not leave a deep wound to our soul, bitterness. It is therefore important that parents focus not on hurting each other or reproaching each other but on how to ensure the best well - being of their common child or children. An agreement between themselves, which may have been confirmed in a notary and which may also require adjoining counseling, is the best way. Family mediation, whether initiated or mediated by the court, is another option. The trial should be the last way. The method of determining maintenance described above is one that can also be based on the conclusion of an agreement with one another. We are planning to put a maintenance calculator on the Ministry's website to help parents assess the potential size of the livelihood. And, of course, you can put into each other's agreements, in any agreement, things that aren't in the official calculator. It's a guide, as a principle, I'm sure. Finally. I very much hope that the Riigikogu will support a change in the principles of determining maintenance. No one is satisfied with the current system. The proposed arrangements have been found as a result of several years of intensive work, very extensive involvement and very lively discussions. Yes, not all those involved are satisfied at one hundred percent, but in a situation where interests are conflicting, it is not possible to take into account all wishes and desires. Inevitably, we need to find a middle ground where circumstances are acceptable to most. The Riigikogu must be here as a judge and not deviate too far from one side or the other, otherwise nothing will come out of the necessary change. Thank you and I call for the draft to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U17	Good Minister, members of the Riigikogu wish to clarify. Priit onion begins. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U18	Thank you, Vice President of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, Thank you very much for this comprehensive and substantive review on such a complex subject. I have a question that maybe once more, I have not dealt with this topic on a daily basis, and in this sense I listened with interest to the long preparation of the draft and to the complex nuances of both the calculation and the transition, in a few words, of what is the basic difference between the current system and what is proposed in the draft. You referred to this on several occasions, and I regret that I agree that it is probably not possible to find a satisfactory solution, either for ministers, for governments, or probably for Parliament, because in the end it is the agreement between each family itself, between people. But where do you think these potential bottlenecks in this draft lie, what has come from these target groups as feedback?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U19	Thank you. The current system, as I said, depends on a minimum wage that is not linked to the needs of the child. Now we're going to go to a system that looks into the needs of a child. The minimum wage has been that it is now growing very fast, but there have been periods in which it has not grown at all, and then there has been concern that the livelihood has turned out to be too small. So if we're going to follow this new scheme, it should take these problems down now and in the future. What are the biggest points of dispute? This transitional problem, which I have described here, certainly raises questions. It is always difficult to switch from one system to another. Now it is a question that has been debated about what should be the base sum. As I said, on behalf of the ministry, we raised it from EUR 181 initially to EUR 200, which could certainly lead to discussion. There may also be questions, such as how long a period of time should be taken into account when living with another parent. For example, we have been talking about five days; we now have 7/15 days [six] in the form of a proposal. 15 is half, and in that case, as if there was no division at all, both parents have the same amount. But if anyone has less, from which day should the deduction be taken into account. We're currently scheduled for the seventh day, but it's thought to be the fifth day, for example. It's a place. I'm sure there are other places like this, but these are the things most marked in the last round of coordination and discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U20	Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U21	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. I agree that there was a need to rethink and modernise the maintenance arrangements and I think it is right that the minimum rate does not have to be linked to the minimum wage. At the same time, I believe that, in its current form, the law places children and their parents in an unequal position, as the minimum level of maintenance can vary greatly. I am thinking here of the so-called frozen maintenance rate, for which the judgment has entered into force. My question is: what exactly is the procedure going to look like if the obliged parent does not agree with the amount of frozen maintenance and wishes to reduce it to the minimum prescribed by the new law? Is it planned to introduce a simplified procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U22	Thank you. If the parent disagrees with the size of the maintenance, he or she shall have the opportunity to apply to the courts. We had very large discussions on these different transition options and it is quite likely that court proceedings will increase. Now, the question is that we also tried to find such a solution, so that recourse to the court would be as little as possible and that it would be as less burdensome and as understandable as possible. We discussed this issue with the Chancellor of Justice, the Supreme Court and the courts, and their understanding was that precisely when such a freezing is imminent, intervention in the judgment in a sense is acceptable. Also, as a result, let's say that if, for example, a third of the minimum wage has been established, there have probably been some reasons behind why it is not half. Consequently, there has been a justification that it must be smaller. This is a court's consideration and a series of arguments and should not be changed. If there is a defined livelihood, which is a so-called minimum living life, then it has been approached in a kind of simplified way. That has been the will of the legislator. If the legislator now reconsiders, it is justified, under certain conditions, to take an approach that will also go beyond this solution. Yes, the truth is, if someone finds it too burdensome for him, he will go to court, just as he is now turning. It is very possible, just by looking at the increase in our incomes and inflation, that quite soon we will actually reach EUR 292 with the basic amount of maintenance. Then it makes sense to go on indexing, well, let's just replace one system with another in this sense. There are still these transitional provisions and nuances here, but we have put here more general principles from which people can base their agreements and also judges. I hope I answered [sufficiently]. I'll explain more if I have to.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U23	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U24	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, You claimed that the child's needs do not depend on the minimum wage. If you look at the draft, the maintenance that will be or will be calculated for the child in the future will be made dependent on the average gross monthly wage, i.e. the indexation will be based on the average gross monthly wage. Tell me how, in fact, the child's needs depend more on the average gross monthly wage than on the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U25	Thank you. The main component of the maintenance formula is the base part of the maintenance. We are suggesting that it could be EUR 200. It's calculated on the basis of a study, and by the elements, age is very carefully estimated what's supposed to be inside, which isn't. It's very thorough, I suggest you read for interest. But we put the consumer price index here first to take account of the increase in prices, and 3% of the gross wage, not just pay itself, but 3% of the gross wage, in order to bring in the effect of rising living standards, not only the inflation effect, but also the effect of rising living standards. There was a discussion about whether to look at some income indicators. Unfortunately, income figures are not published so quickly at Statistics Estonia. Wage, however, is a source of income. For example, there was a discussion about the calculation of the median income, which is even more complicated; there is no such indicator. So the round table in January just found that gross wages are the best contributor to income. This means that 3% of gross wage is added as the absolute value of a, not an index, but an absolute value. If the gross wage is EUR 1000, 3% of it will be EUR 30, which is EUR 30. If the gross wage grows higher, there will be a little bit more for this 30 euro, one to two euros will depend on how much the gross wage will rise. It takes into account the livelihood, it is not indexation in this sense, but it is inclusion, the inclusion of a component. The second thing is definitely that the minimum wage is decision-making. As I said, the parties will decide whether or not we will lift and how much we will raise. In this sense, it is not an objective indicator of a change in the standard of living. The average salary is a much more objective measure of the standard of living, as it moves according to how people are actually paid.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U26	Urmas Reitelmann, please! [[No connection.]] So, in the meantime, let's take Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski's second question and try to get back in touch with Urmas Reitelmann. Please, Maria!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U27	Thank you for your answer. I'd like to come back to that frozen amount. The original principle is that when it comes to a minimum rate of maintenance, it means that the parent does not have to prove that the child's maintenance costs so much. I wanted to ask if there was a plan to introduce a simplified regime for the obliged parent if he wanted to challenge the frozen amount that was beyond his control. He just can't pay as much as we're talking about benevolent parents. And if the other side doesn't agree, there must be such a long trial. But the question is, if no one is to argue that it should perhaps be possible to apply a simplified procedure so that a person should not hire lawyers and go through this long way again to get to the point where he pays the minimum prescribed by law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U28	I'm sorry, in the previous answer, I missed the beginning of your question. We have no intention of simplifying the trial. We want to point out that there are other [options]. First of all, even if there is a judgment, parents can still make an agreement and, if necessary, address the judge who formalises it through family mediation. All these techniques can be used, and I really recommend that they be used and that parents be understanding. I understand that sometimes it's extremely complicated and difficult, but it's one way, let's just say this. We're not going to change the trial as such. This is not good practice or practice. But I hope we are ready for this and understand that if this bill is adopted, the burden on the courts may increase. The judges are ready for this. We have also applied for more money in the budget. There are currently several competitions for judges, and I really hope that we can get them to the judges. These competitions are still coming, so there will be no such problems at the speed of the proceedings. I have been in contact with a number of judges and they understand perfectly what the problem is [to be resolved] and how difficult it is for those involved. They are really interested in making them easier, easier, smoother. I think that if the parties concerned are well-intentioned, this process can always go faster, even in court. It all depends a lot on people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U29	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U30	Thank you, good vice chairman. Dear Minister, I have a question about the two nuances that are in this bill. There is § 1 (7). I guess it's somewhere in this explanatory memorandum, but maybe you know from the head that this 15% reduction, I understand, basically concerns children born successively, who are not twins and whose age difference is less than three years. What does it come from? That's one question. And the second question is, how quickly do you think we could get there as an e-state, as regards paragraph 4, about which you also answered Heik, the matter of calculating gross wages, the one concerning the average [gross salary] of the Republic of Estonia. If I'm in the family for my father or mother, it doesn't matter what happened to the average, the question is what happened to my salary. This is what you referred to before in the context of injustice in the case of the minimum wage. When could we get there so that this passage of the law would begin to affect my personal course, not how the Republic of Estonia is doing? This will be fine for my children and myself.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U31	Thank you. Very important and good questions. Why is there a need to be reduced? The reason is that if children live in one family, rather than in different families, some costs will turn out to be lower. For example, children can use the same clothes and toys, the same study room as children have study places, they can be a little cheaper. It's just an opportunity for savings. We also know that if there is a family with more than one member, for example, cooking for a family member will be a little cheaper than for a single person, I dare to confirm it on the basis of personal experience. That's what it's for. In this analysis, it estimated that the difference was even greater, but as a result of the discussion it was decided that we would make the difference smaller. It was one thing. As far as this is concerned, I fully agree that it would be good if we could take into account the salary or income of the debtor. That would be really good. In this case, the simplest thing really is for people to make their own agreements and for [income] to be taken into account. Apparently, the judge can take that into account. Perhaps it is more complicated in situations where enforcement procedures are used. The bailiffs don't get that information that fast. The deadline for income tax returns is no longer 30 March, but it is later, I think, somewhere in April, I have forgotten. In short, at this point [data] is not really known and then there is also a need to check tax returns. It's always a question of what kind of income to take into account. There's complications. But really, I hope that in a few years we will be able to reach the point of developing a solution that is more flexible, more individual. Perhaps this reassessment will not take place every year on 1 April, but a little later. It definitely needs IT solutions. We have increased specific IT expenditure in the government, but I assure you that there are huge amounts of projects in the IT field at the moment. The capacity of the entire Estonian state and private sector is currently being tested, and the execution of procurement is very difficult. IT companies complain that they have so much to do and slow down a little bit. The will of the state is greater than that of our IT sector. Unfortunately. But really, [defining a living] could in the future become an individual.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U32	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U33	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I understand that family allowances, especially public family allowances, have now been taken into account in the calculation of maintenance. Two pieces: child benefit and child-rich family allowance. Was there any discussion or discussion in the preparation of the draft to take into account the family allowances paid by our municipalities? After all, we know that municipalities still pay quite a lot of child benefits and other family benefits.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U34	Thank you. I have not been involved in such discussions, perhaps during the previous minister's time. But I imagine the problem of why this has not been taken into account at the moment is that this picture is very uneven, what local governments are doing and how they are doing and on which basis they are doing something. It is difficult to take this into account, and I think that is why it is not in there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U35	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U36	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, I am very pleased that there has been a move to eliminate a serious problem where the provision of maintenance is linked to some standards, even those established by the State. But after 25 years of living disputes, I can say that this new legislative text still does not solve the situation. In my opinion, there should still be an opportunity to solve the problems by the judges themselves making a decision on this matter, and they will also be able to directly check a person's standard of living so that there is no deception there. Perhaps it would be wise to give judgment to the courts, as it has always been.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U37	Thank you. In fact, this draft does not rule this out in any way. The courts take into account a wide range of other aspects. As is currently the case with the establishment of a minimum living, this [new] option is the help of the courts in determining maintenance. But even more so, it is a helper for people to find a solution by means of agreements or agreement. I think it's good to have as few decisions taken in court as possible, it's expensive, it's burdensome, it takes time, it eats nerves. We should try to find solutions outside the courts. The court and the judge shall always have the opportunity to make [their decision]. There is an opportunity to reduce, as is currently the case, two aspects, i.e. the issue of incapacity for work and the issue of equal treatment for children. And the second option is to increase the [elitist], taking into account the income of the debtor, taking into account any other needs of the child, the differences. All of this is possible, and the judge can and must actually consider. If he takes the two people who come to debate, he must first assess whether the approach that is currently proposed as a basic living is appropriate or not in their case. If appropriate, it may apply it using additional clauses. He may decide that instead of EUR 200 for this family, this amount is, for example, EUR 300. It's a judge's freedom. There are no restrictions on the basis of which the judge will take decisions. The fact is, too, that a situation in which a court begins to determine the needs of a child means that it asks a parent who is raising a child for a whole range of evidence, papers, and more. This is very costly and burdensome for all concerned. But if necessary, if the judge feels that this method is correct, he can apply it. They don't put a barrier on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U38	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U39	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I say, first of all, I haven't seen such a good bill in this hall in a long time. The emotionally and technically complex topic was clearly, different facets of openings reported. Really good work! I am asking about implementation. We have seen in recent years that if, for example, the Social Insurance Board changed the procedure for assessing disability, then in the end, it was the children who lost their services. Similarly, the activity-based budget at the Ministry of Finance has been made for a good purpose, a technically complex issue, thought-out, implemented, but as long as the ministries do not use it essentially to manage the achievement of the objectives of the field, it will not produce a good result. What about the implementation of this bill now? Is there an understanding of the role of judges, and can different parties, municipalities, share this information with people? It is essential that we achieve the objectives set out in the draft. What about preparing for its implementation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U40	Thank you. The judges were one of the parties who also approached the Ministry with the observation that the current system had to be changed. The judges, in particular the judges dealing with family matters, have been constantly involved in the drafting of this draft in precisely these discussions on how to resolve this transition, where there are the biggest points of dispute and what the solution measures are. So they've been involved. And I have a feeling that they have a pretty good idea of what awaits them, of a temporary potential increase in burden, but also of how they can apply it. When the bill comes out, we will undoubtedly do our part to ensure that judges are equipped with the necessary knowledge, information, so that they can make the best decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U41	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Apart from the principle of out-of-court agreement, as a practitioner, I will focus only on the court proceedings in which the parties argue about the size of the livelihood. I can say with certainty that, in fact, we will never get away with providing these evidence and proving the needs of the child in court proceedings. However, I do see the problem now that, having gone beyond one framework and going through another framework with this new draft, we can simply get in the way of real life, because no law sees all situations in life. Perhaps it would still be more reasonable to leave this issue entirely to the judges who can consider the vital facts specifically, directly?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U43	Thank you. There are no doubt very different variants, and there are very different ways to determine a living from one country to another. There are also systems where the judge is given a completely free hand and the judge himself decides what he takes into consideration and what he does not take into account, or people are told to agree and if he does not agree, go to court. There are also such solutions. This [draft] scheme has been negotiated with the judges and the judges are convinced that it would simplify their work. Of course, these checks and proofs are also out of order. However, if there is a better approach to the needs of the child than is currently the case, it will certainly make some cases easier and somewhat speed up the process. Yeah, those real expenditure proofs don't go away, they definitely don't go away. But I dare say that if all the solutions were to be taken only to the fact that everything had to be certified by cheques, the burden on judges and courts would increase greatly. Disputes would be extended and situations would arise where the parties concerned would not be able to obtain an answer in time or quickly enough. There will certainly be cases where there is even a long debate, certainly there are situations where checks need to be brought, but I think it is also important to create a scheme where those who are prepared to argue in a friendly way, not to argue pointlessly, can resolve their affairs more smoothly. It's a proposition. No one shall rule out the use of this [court settlement] scheme. But we're creating a way to use another scheme. If the judges want, they can drop this new scheme, but I think they're gonna use it. Time will tell whether it will be used more than the current solution, as a "relationship," or whether it will be argued more. I really hope that there will actually be a little less debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U44	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U45	Thank you, Minister. With regard to this law, from 1 January we will have two types of children among those who are directly affected by this law and who will be granted a living: those who have reached their verdict before 31 December and those who will receive it from 1 January. Didn't you find a solution that wouldn't give us any different treatment? That's my first question. And to that, I would like to ask a more specific question: what are you going to see, what is actually going to happen in the judicial system now, knowing that the Riigikogu has taken the course to adopt this law before the end of the year and that it should enter into force in about a month and a half? Can this result in a significant increase in the number of actions still brought before the courts on this subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U46	Thank you. Yeah, we had discussions about this transition, and they were pretty lively. In this June round table, I participated myself, and there were a lot of ideas about whether there really was a date when things worked the same way, and the next date when these things worked differently. The fact is that if we stick to this one date, we would actually have a lot of things unchanged. There just has to be a date, a moment of transition. We were looking for a solution to make it as soft as possible. This offer is just one option. The parties concerned were unable to come up with any other solution on how [to mitigate] precisely this date effect, on 30 December for one and on 2 January for another, and what happens then. I sincerely hope that we will have judges who will delve into the subject and consider the actual facts and will be able to make meaningful, useful and fair decisions, including in such a way that if they now take these decisions in December, knowing that the legal order will change, they will also take this potential change into account. As I have repeatedly pointed out today, judges have a very high degree of freedom in determining their livelihood, a very wide margin of discretion under the current law, and even when this amendment is adopted. Even then. In particular, during this transitional period, in the next two years, I will certainly encourage these options of consideration to be used, and I recommend that we look at precisely that there should be no such strange contradictions. Undoubtedly, at least for the time being, more litigation is expected. But we have also seen this, and the judges have also pointed out that there has been an increase in the number of disputes anyway because the minimum livelihood resulting from the minimum wage has become burdensome for more and more people. We have more than 2600 applications a year, and they want to change their livelihoods. A year earlier, this figure was a few hundred fewer, so the increase is very clearly there. The number of maintenance disputes is increasing anyway. The hope is that even if, because of this amendment to the law, there will be much more disputes, for which, as I explained, the courts have prepared, after some time their numbers will shrink again and there will be no such great rise. Surely we also have the hope that litigation will become simpler and shorter. In this context, I think it is very important that the draft family agreement is also adopted, and not only that people themselves agree, they themselves turn to the family mediator. If necessary, judges can also direct people to family mediation in order to make agreements in this system. So all of these things actually work together as different components.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U47	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U48	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, It seems to me that Indrek Island's comment was extremely striking. And it is not just a matter of date, it is also a question of unequal treatment and different treatment, which makes it seem to me that there may be unacceptable constitutional interference. Have you discussed this bill with the Chancellor of Justice in your office?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U49	Thank you. We discussed the transition with both the Chancellor of Justice and the judges of the Supreme Court. They were involved in this debate precisely to ensure equal treatment. The proposed solution is also acceptable in the constitutional view on the basis of their response.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U50	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U51	Thank you. You yourself have also repeatedly referred to this, not only by answering me, that it is very likely that there will be a significant increase in the number of litigations when this bill enters into force as a law. Have you also considered how it is possible to support those people who are forced to go to court to defend their rights or the rights and opportunities of their children if this legislative amendment inevitably increases the need to protect their children's rights in court? And the other side: wouldn't it be more rational to say that there are about 2600 people who have turned to [the court] with this concern that they can't handle the maintenance obligation, that okay, we're trying to freeze the amount of this maintenance, and all those who feel that they can't handle this obligation can request a new decision from the court as a consideration decision? Can't we do it the other way around, so that those who cannot cope with the current maintenance obligation can take advantage of the court's opportunity to make a decision on the matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U52	Thank you. But that's exactly what the bill suggests that those who fail can go to court. We simply see that the current minimum livelihood scheme does not, in principle, correspond to what the livelihood is intended for. The child's livelihood is intended to support the child and should therefore depend on the child's maintenance costs. The minimum wage on the basis of which the minimum subsistence allowance is determined is in no way related to the minimum needs of the child. No, it's not! We'll untie him. The judgments currently in force and which remain in force and those defined by a minimum livelihood, i.e. EUR 292, shall be frozen. If parents feel that they are burdensome, they can go to court. They can also make arrangements, and parents can change their mind. If we said yes, they continue to be dependent on the minimum wage, and that the minimum wage is beginning to rise, we believe that these appeals to the court will be more frequent than we are in a situation where we are freezing it now. And maybe that's what happens, probably for a lot of people, that they feel that it's a burden to them right now, but it's easy, they can handle it, but they can see that their burden will decrease next year or the next year, because their income will increase. So they don't go to court anymore. If the minimum wage continues to rise in the future, I have realised from the discussions between employers and employees that they intend to continue to do so, then those people who are perhaps still struggling at the moment, but are coping, will find themselves in difficulty a little later. It actually motivates them to go to court. They know they won't see such relief coming in the next few years. That's what we want to slow down a little bit of this court case. What we see is that the reasons for this court are very different. There are people who turn because they want a living to be increased. For example, they see in the case of their former mate that there are some reasons why the child could be increased or that the child has some circumstances. Those who want to reduce will turn. I guess there's two sides. We considered where this potential increase for different solutions is greater, and we found that the proposed solution is less burdensome, causing fewer people [problems], giving rise to an increase in cases to a lesser extent than other solutions. We tried to do that. I have repeatedly talked about this here today, too, so it would be very good if the parents themselves could find a solution, if necessary with the help of others. Relatives, friends, acquaintances, who simply help to mediate two people, may be helpful. But there will also be reconciliation measures. The fact that a judgment has been handed down once does not mean that the following agreements must also come from a court of law. You can always go to better solutions. So the incentive to use, to create more materials so that people can first appreciate how big this livelihood would come. We also have the forms with which people can go to court if necessary. To see what documents they have to submit, what reasons they have to give when they go to court with family matters, they want help from the court. Such forms would also come up with them to help them better. After all, legal advice is also available in national legal aid schemes. As far as I know, free legal advice is precisely to be used to settle family matters. Just to go to a lawyer-knowing person, they ask how this scheme works, what my rights are. It will be clarified, and often people will understand that we can solve the problem among ourselves; we will not have to go to court. This, too, is actually a positive achievement. I know a number of cases where people who at first thought they had to go to court will realize after counseling that they can actually sort things out between themselves. Very nice to take care of. So I am encouraging a solution, and certainly people who are friends and acquaintances could help people talk and search for solutions, because children are the most affected in all kinds of parental disputes. We don't want that. But on the other hand, as a country, we must also see that the burden on the courts is not too great. True, these discussions have been, the participants have all been [included], we have considered different options, and it seems that this is the best option. If it turns out something doesn't work, we're definitely going to reorganize. If necessary, I will come to the Riigikogu myself and ask for amendments to the law if it turns out that it does not work.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U53	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U54	Thank you very much. Good minister! We have now realised that it is as if this bill has been programmed, that the number of cases is beginning to increase, and that social tensions are likely to increase. Obviously, there will also be some significant additional costs in terms of the increase in procedures in relation to the development of these schemes. What are the costs that the state has planned for this bill to enter into force as a law?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U55	Thank you. Each change certainly means restructuring in different areas. We do not, in fact, dare to predict how much the burden on the courts will increase. That is the assumption that the burden on the courts will increase, because perhaps there will be more debate on the part of those who want to reduce their living. But they're coming now. So [not known] whether or not to come. I am simply pointing out that an increase in litigation due to changes in enforcement proceedings was also expected in the spring. But it didn't happen. So it often happens that expectations do not come true. I have already explained that we are increasing the number of judges in civil proceedings. I believe that, whether this draft will lead to an increase in the number of cases and how much more cases it will bring, in any case, the addition of new judges will be useful. Firstly, we may be able to ensure that the cases do not linger, but that their proceedings become quicker, shorter. We have a very large increase in the number of civil cases in the courts anyway, so there is a need. It is very difficult to draw a line, for example in the case of costs, that the increase in costs resulting from the increase in the number of judges is linked to this draft and the extent to which it derives from dealing with problems of general court or from other circumstances. It's very hard to draw a line here. Speaking of such a practical aspect, an Internet calculator or certain electronic solutions, they are relatively modest at a price of some tens of thousands. That is what we are dealing with very well within the existing budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U56	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U57	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. I would like to conclude by asking that you also give the hall an overview of the current situation through numbers. How many recipients are there? How much about a minimum living? Who's the subject of freezing? Is there a trend that more agreements are made and that the burden on courts in the long run should be reduced? What's in the numbers? How many children are affected by this freezing now, and what would these new rates of maintenance be a year? And I'd ask you about risk mitigation. If this bill comes into force as a law, training is needed, communication is needed, for example, you mentioned a calculator and model forms, perhaps the cost of legal aid will also increase. Tell us how the planned implementation risks are mitigated.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U58	It's a little complicated with these records, because some numerical data would basically require each case to enter. So statistically, it's a little complicated. But the statistics maybe as much as I said, that the cases, like I said, are about 2,600 and a little bit more of the ones that are related to maintenance, they've come up. Cases tend to be very different: there are those where the solution is obtained quickly, and those where the solution comes in a long time. We have almost 10,000 survivors, too. The amounts are pretty significant. I don't dare tell you what these are, according to the latest data, I don't have a specific number right now. But they are probably less than EUR 10 million now, that's quite a lot of money. I assure you that we have considered these facts and the launch of this draft very carefully in the Ministry and we have spoken to the courts. The judges are very interested in finding solutions. There are a number of practical solutions. As I pointed out, there are IT solutions. We have more digital solutions to the courts, [to go] to the digital trial, and, if possible, a written procedure is also possible. There's a lot of options. I think that in the event of any possible setbacks, when this [change] starts, we will certainly be watching very closely how this process is going to happen. If there's a glitch, we'll find solutions. My contact with the judges who deal with family matters and have been dealing with them for a long time, they think very much along the way, they are looking for and offering solutions. So I think if they see that something isn't working or there's a glitch, they won't hesitate, I'm pretty sure, turning to the ministry and telling them that something needs to be solved, something needs to be changed. In the case of implementation, we will certainly make sure that it really works. Any new thing could cause a glitch, and therefore I cannot say that there will be no glitches, but I think that all those involved will make an effort to ensure that these failures are as few as possible and that they can be resolved quickly. But when it comes to statistics, I don't have it at my fingertips. We will review the protocol later, and the statistics that exist will certainly be passed on to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U59	Good Minister, no further questions. Thank you! We will go to the report of the Legal Affairs Committee and that will be made by Vilja Toomas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U60	Thank you very much, Honourable Vice-Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, The Legal Affairs Committee discussed draft law amending the Family Law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 474 at its meeting on 9 November. The members of the Commission and the advisers of the Commission took part; the members were absent from this meeting by Heljo Pikhof. Maris Lauri, Minister of Justice, Vaike Murumets, Head of the Department of Private Law of the Legal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice, and Andra Olm, Adviser to the same department, were also invited to the meeting. Minister of Justice Maris Lauri introduced the idea of the bill, its initiation and the story of its arrival to the members of the Commission as thoroughly as he did today in this large Chamber. I won't come back to it again, and it won't stop any longer. We then went to the Commission's debate, and the members of the Commission had some questions. Since the Minister in his presentation stated that during the preparation of the draft the text had been met with a large number of related parties and the text of the draft was a compromise, Tarmo Kruusimäe asked how we could be sure that the compromise was not merely verbal and that all political parties were involved. Maris Lauri answered this question in such a way that the political agreement was actually reached at the level of the Riigikogu and once again explained that different interest groups had always been involved. Andra Olm added that no one who has wished to express his opinion has been left out, and everyone has been tried to cope with acute problems. Tarmo Kruusimäe was quite satisfied and found that all the decisions taken were directly or indirectly politically related. He once again asked whether the compromise between the parties was fixed, confirmed. Andra Olm added that a table of comments and comments was included in the draft documents, which set out all the comments and answers to these comments from all parties. This should be proof that a compromise has been sought and, in many cases, found. Urve Tiidus asked, which gives the outsider an understanding and assurance that the new system will work better for children than the previous system. The minister's answer was that it is now intended to determine the child's actual needs and the ability of the debtor to pay for a living and the burden to be shared between the two parents is also taken into account. He referred again to the rapid rise in the minimum wage and consequently to the emergence of maintenance creditors. He said that as a child's livelihood is better than not paying, it is good that a child's livelihood is in line with the parent's solvency. Mr Jürgenson asked the Minister for Justice for an opinion on how the public would react to such a change. Maris Lauri stressed that the law in force does not change previous agreements. The only agreements that change are the minimum living arrangements. They're frozen. The aim is to reduce pressure so that there are no more people who are unable to pay for a living. Andra Olm added to the subject to complement that this topic is very sensitive as it concerns children. This draft is designed to regulate the private relationship between the child and the parents. The state intervenes to ensure that the child has the necessary support. He stated that the public often tends to confuse the livelihood with social benefits. It's very important for them to know the difference. He stressed that it was always possible to figure out a living greater than average. Tarmo Kruusimäe also asked whether the draft had taken into account a situation where the property situation of parents was unequal and one parent was going to charge money on the other, and he also asked the minister whether children should be involved in disputes between parents or whether they should always be heard. Minister Lauri replied that it would be best for parents to settle their disputes away from their children without harming each other in the eyes of the child. Another situation is that when decisions are made about a child, it is wise to listen to the child's sense. He stated that in his experience the hearing of the child had helped to prevent the conflicts between parents from escalating. Linnar Liivamägi commented that, as the minimum wage level rises in the following year, it should be adopted by the beginning of December at the latest in order for the draft to meet its objective. He proposed to the Commission that the first reading be held on 16 November, i.e. today. He also proposed reducing the deadline for tabling amendments, which would be 23 November 2021. In that case, decisions on second and third readings could be taken on Thursday, 25 November. Tarmo Kruusimäe asked for all these decisions to be put to the vote. As a result of the vote, the following was decided: Propose to place a draft on the plenary agenda on 16 November 2021. There were 6 members: Marek Jürgenson, Sulev Kannimäe, Jaanus Karilaid, Anti Poolamets, Urve Tiidus, Vilja Toomast. One against, Tarmo Kruusimäe. There were no abstentions. The second proposal was to conclude the first reading. The same vote: in favour of 6 and against 1, Tarmo Kruusimäe was opposed and others were in favour. Third proposal: set deadline for the submission of amendments 23 November 2021 at 16: by 6, against 1. Finally, appoint a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Vilja Toomas, to represent the commission. This decision was taken by consensus. That's all I got. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-16_U61	My colleagues don't have any questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. There's no request, I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 474. We have finished our first reading and set the deadline for submitting amendments at 16 a.m. on 23 November. Ladies and gentlemen, we have well exhausted today's agenda. I'll see you tomorrow at 12:00 at Question Time.
