ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U1	Good morning. We are at the beginning of the 18th working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. It's been a long time. Before proceeding with the sitting, it is possible to pass on drafts and enquiries. Please! Predictions and enquiries. Heljo Pikhof, yes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U2	Good morning, everyone! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! On behalf of the Social Democrats, I am handing over the draft law amending the pre-school Children's Institution Act, which will lose the place fee for kindergarten anywhere in Estonia. According to the draft, the state compensates the municipalities for the loss of income. The implementation of our proposal will help to ensure that no child fails to attend kindergarten for economic reasons. Freeing parents from payment of the place fee ensures that children have more equal access to early childhood education, which also reduces educational stratification. The Social Democrats have brought the same draft before the Riigikogu earlier, but this time there is reason to be much more hopeful, because the Reform Party, which bears the responsibility of the government, has supported this idea in every way. Perhaps, in short, I will say that municipalities can now ask for up to 20% of the minimum wage for the place payment in kindergarten, and most municipalities have linked this amount to a certain percentage of the minimum wage. The fact that parents are asked for very different amounts from all over Estonia also speaks in favour of losing the place fee for kindergarten. If in several municipalities the place fee for kindergarten is less than 20 euros, then in Tallinn and nearby municipalities, for example, 70 euros is charged for going to kindergarten and 81 euros must be paid in Tartu. The draft has been transmitted electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U3	Thank you. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U4	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. It is almost already a good tradition that when an EKRE representative comes here to hand over some draft, this bill is something very positive and binding for society. Well, it's not an exception today. I fully endorse this tradition, and I want to hand over a draft to the benefit of all of us and of society, which provides for the amendment of party law in one section. It is our Conservative idea to move forward progressively and get out of the rudimentary where we are now. After all, Estonia and Latvia are the only countries in the European Union where the share of foreign people exceeds 30%. This draft does not concern it, but it is linked in this sense that Estonia and Latvia are the only countries in the European Union where the political views of the people are openly expressed. Maybe we're talking about publicising the names of the members of the party. There isn't any. We do. The time has come to change this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U5	I have adopted two drafts. The Management Board decides on their further processing in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Now we're going to do a presence check. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U6	Good work! 75 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U7	Let's go to today's agenda. We failed to read the second reading of the General Part of the Environmental Code Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the draft law amending other laws 292 at the last session. We are in the process of dealing with the amendments. Amendment 4 had been put to the vote. How? I'm sorry! We have reached the point that Amendment 4 must now be put to the vote. The fourth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment and has been fully taken into account by the Committee on the Environment itself. Let's move on. Amendment 5 Okay. Its author is also the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on the Environment has taken this into account. Amendment 6, the author's Committee on the Environment, the lead committee, has taken full account of this. Amendment 7 has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment and fully taken into account by the Committee on the Environment itself. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U8	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I would like to ask for this amendment [to vote]. Before the vote, please reflect calmly and support this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U9	I am voting on Amendment 7, which is tabled by the Committee on the Environment, and which has been fully taken into account by the Committee on the Environment itself. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U10	There are 54 Members who support this amendment, 7 against and 1 abstention. The amendment was accepted. We come to Amendment 8. Its author is the Committee on the Environment and the Commission has taken full account of this. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U11	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment. Thank you for taking my advice earlier, for supporting the proposal, but now please reject this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U12	I shall put to the vote Amendment 8, which is tabled by the Committee on the Environment and which has been fully taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U13	The proposal was supported by 51 delegates, 7 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was accepted. We come to the ninth amendment, the author of which is the Committee on the Environment, and the Committee on the Environment itself has fully taken this into account. The 10th amendment, which is also tabled by the Committee on the Environment, has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. The last amendment, Amendment 11, tabled by the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on the Environment, has taken this fully into account. The amendments have been examined. The commission has proposed to stop the second reading of the draft, but the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and the Group of the Social Democratic Party have proposed to interrupt the second reading of the draft 292. That is what we must vote on now. The commission has proposed that the second reading of draft 292 be stopped, but the EKRE Group and the Social Democratic Party Group have requested that it be interrupted. I shall put to the vote the second reading of the two draft political groups' proposal 292 to be suspended. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U14	The proposal for interruption was supported by 11 delegates, 57 against and no abstentions. The proposal for interruption was not supported, the reading has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U15	It is now a dream or a reality, but in less than a quarter of an hour we have reached the second item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law 377 on combating unfair commercial practices in the agricultural product and food supply chain initiated by the Government of the Republic. I invite the chairman of the Rural Affairs Committee, Tarmo Tamme.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U16	Thank you, very honored Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Good morning to all of you! I will make an extract from the minutes of the meeting of the Riigikogu Committee on Rural Affairs No 109. The session was held on Tuesday, 1 June and attended by the members of the Commission, Merry Aart, Kaido Hööbelson, Ivari Padar, Martin Repinski, Helir-Valdor Seeder, Andrus Seede and Aivar Viidik. Kristel Maidre, Head of the Agricultural Policy Department of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, Janeli Tikk, Head of the Office for the Development of the Agricultural and Food Sector in the same department, and Ingrid Raidme, Deputy Head of the Legal Department. We discussed the second item, which was the draft law 377 on combating unfair commercial practices in the area of supply of agricultural products and foodstuffs initiated by the Government of the Republic to send the debate to second reading. I noted that there was only one amendment to draft 377 tabled by the Ministry of Rural Affairs. I gave the floor to the representatives of the Ministry of Rural Affairs to present the amendment. Ms Raidme pointed out that the amendment concerned the implementation provision of the draft. Initially, § 16 (1) of the draft had been formulated with the assumption that the law would be published in the Official Journal of the State on 1 May. That date has passed and the wording of the provision should therefore be amended so that all contracts for the sale of agricultural products and foodstuffs concluded before the entry into force of this Act are brought into conformity with that law within 12 months of the date of publication in the Official Journal of the State. Businesses can choose within 12 months the appropriate time to bring their contract into conformity with the law. The amendment to amend the first sentence of § 16 (1) of the draft was revised and worded as follows: "The contract for the sale of agricultural products and foodstuffs concluded before the entry into force of this Act shall be brought into conformity with this Act within 12 months of the date of publication in the Official Journal of the State." Then there was the debate on who sent their opinion on the draft. The Estonian Food Industry Association, the Estonian Agricultural Chamber of Commerce and the Estonian Merchants Association sent their opinion on the draft. I gave the floor to the representatives of the Ministry of Rural Affairs. Marko Gorban noted that at the end of last week, in addition to the aforementioned organisations, the Estonian Farmers' Confederation and the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry sent their opinion. He noted that the proposals received could be divided into three groups. One part of the proposals concerns the scope of the law, i.e. the ranges between the buyer and the seller. In this respect, the proposals of the representative organisations of the agricultural sector and the food industry have been based on the view that unfair commercial practices are unfair regardless of the size or size of the seller or buyer. The second part of the proposals relates to the list of unfair commercial practices. The proposals concern time limits for normal payments and penalties for payment deadlines. Mr Gorban explained that the directive would distinguish between perishable agricultural products and food as regards payment deadlines. The Ministry of Rural Affairs abandoned this approach because the distinction between perishable agricultural products and foodstuffs can be difficult and will impose additional burdens on both parties in contractual relations and supervisory authorities. The bill sets a 30-day payment deadline for all agricultural products and foodstuffs. The Ministry considers that the Law of Obligations Act provides sufficient grounds for imposing sanctions. If necessary, we can come back to this issue. The third group of proposals concerns the list of unfair commercial practices and their clarification. The Ministry of Rural Affairs considers that the list covers practice. In addition, it is possible to base itself on the Law of Obligations Act, which governs contractual relations. At the moment, there is no reason to go beyond the directive. I asked if the 30-day payment deadline was valid in Latvia and Lithuania. Marko Gorban replied that he could not answer about Latvia and Lithuania, but Finland and Sweden had abandoned the distinction between perishable agricultural products and food. The representatives of the Ministry added that Latvia makes a distinction between perishable products with a 30-day payment deadline. In the case of non-fast perishable products, the 60-day payment deadline shall apply. Finland introduced even more stringent requirements, such as for fruit and vegetables, the payment deadline is 15 days. Merry Aart asked if Estonian food producers were familiar with the 30-day deadline. Marko Gorban replied that the proposal was supported by both the Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Trade and the Estonian Farmers' Confederation. The Estonian Merchants Association had problems with the proposal. Further consideration of the draft was discussed. It was decided to propose the inclusion of a draft of 377 on the agenda of the assembly on 9 June 2021 (consensus), to propose the termination of the second reading of the draft of 377 (consensus) when the second reading of the draft of 377 is closed, to propose the inclusion of the draft on the agenda of the assembly and to hold a final vote (consensus). All the decisions were consensual: Merry Aart, Kaido Hoöölson, Ivari Padar, Martin Repinski, Helir-Valdor Seeder, Andrus Seede, Tarmo Tamm and Aivar Viidik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U17	Thank you very much. There's some questions for the waitress. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U18	Thank you, dear waitress. The subject is important, and there has been a great deal of discussion about this issue: who is in a stronger position, who is in a weaker position, producer or processor, in the meantime there is logistics, trade. There was also quite a long and substantive debate on this issue in the Commission. But is there any reliable research and data and, if so, maybe a large hall is interested in this information and you are introducing how this added value is still distributed between the producer, processor and trade? If we regulate these relationships, who will take on the fattest part of this chain? If that is not the problem, in this chain, then it should not be regulated at all at this time. I guess there's a problem. Right?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U19	Thank you, Helir, for that good question. There's definitely a problem. It's real money for a farmer. He gives the merchant the goods, but he gets the money on day 60 or 70, or later, it's a real tool for the farmer, and for many, it's also a chance to survive. But there are some tables about how this "revenue" is divided into sectors. The tables clearly show that even at the time of the rise or fall, the merchant still gets his share. The producers and also the processors are losing, but merchants, you can say, if you schedule it, have always received their share. Perhaps the purpose of this bill is that the merchant should give this money back to the producer quickly so that the producer can organise his life.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U20	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U21	Thank you. I'm very concerned about this situation. First of all, why are we overstating the law? Why were some of these provisions not included in competition law, logically in the terminology of competition law? We're creating a separate law. Secondly, I am very concerned about what I would ask you to answer. § 1 (1) of the Act is some kind of tree-Estonian language. I read it out: "This Act lays down the transaction or act of an economic or professional activity, the object of which is an agricultural product and food, and which, for the purposes of this Act, is treated as unfair commercial practices which are prohibited or permitted under certain conditions, lays down the conditions and the basis and procedure for the national and administrative supervision of compliance with this Act, as well as the liability for breach of the requirements of the law. " There are 56 words. It does not comply with the norms of comprehension of the sentence in Estonian written language, although it does not comply with the norms of legal language which are a general obligation. Would we be able to return to the Estonian language? Two questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U22	Thank you, Urmas, for a good question. Urmas, we are both actually happy that we are in the European Union and that it is particularly important for a farmer to be in the European Union. The draft law transposes into Estonian law Directive 2019/633 of the European Parliament and of the Council on unfair commercial practices in relations between economic operators in the supply chain of agricultural products and foodstuffs. I can say that the Estonian state is one of the last to take over, in fact the deadline was 1 May. But as for the beautiful Estonian language you pointed out, of course I think there are misconceptions here and this [text] could sound significantly better in Estonian. But it has gone through the table of people who control the text, say, Estonian or the right language. I don't know what else to say about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U23	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U24	Good manager! Good chairman of the committee! Of course, the issue has been hot and has been under discussion for a long time, whether someone in the food chain is using someone else, whether it is right or not to have some resources in their hands. There's always an argument about that. The one who sells would like to get the money right away, but the merchant says that the goods may not go, spoils, and is all the other worries. I'm looking at the bail rates. If it is EUR 600 for a natural person, the legal person shall have EUR 100000. I'm reading here what kind of things can be fined for. If, for example, the sales contract has 30 days to pay money, I understand that if a merchant pays money to a farmer one day later, it would be possible to fine it with EUR 100000. I think a lot of merchants might be struggling under today's circumstances. It's not always the way a merchant just doesn't want to pay. Last night, for example, I tried to get into a bank to make a transfer, and I couldn't. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Do you have that 100,000 number discussed in the Commission? Is this real, reasonable?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U25	Time, Aivar!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U26	Thank you, Aivar! You can argue about that, but it's not someone's intention to be fined right now. The aim is for mutual trust, both the producer and the merchant, and for the producer to get his money in time. We have relatively small producers and a small country, but when it comes to very large producers and large trading chains, what can we call them into order? I think that such a thing will never happen in Estonia. But there must be some sanctions. I, Aivar, am sure that it will not be implemented under Estonian conditions. In fact, many trade chains already accept this. As I said, the Nordic countries have imposed significantly stricter sanctions, such as 15-day deadlines. I think it's gonna be good cooperation. Surely the goal is not to punish and fine anyone. That is certainly not the purpose of the draft. I think that in Estonia it has to be applied very rarely and not the maximum rates that come out of it either.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U27	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U28	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The subject itself is indeed broad, much talked about and also important. The problem is whether there should be a separate law or whether it should be regulated somewhere. My question comes from an area that is now getting hot. They're strawberries. Strawberry time is coming. The question is not only that they rot in the field, but also what we buy. Paragraph 2 (2) states that unfair commercial practice within the meaning of this Act is a transaction or act of an economic or professional activity, the object of which is an agricultural product and a food which is prohibited or prohibited in the event of failure to comply with the conditions laid down in this Act. If the seller deliberately or accidentally failed to write where the strawberry came from, is this a violation of the law? Or how is it interpreted? Is he in danger of being fined, and if he's threatening, how big could it be?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U29	Thank you, Heiki, for this question. The origin of the product must certainly be indicated and the manufacturer is also responsible for it. If he goes openly in the way of fraud, there will certainly be sanctions and financial penalties. It is the most basic that we know what we are buying, so that the consumer is not misled. If I go, Heiki, to your farm to buy strawberries, it shouldn't turn out to be, I don't know, Spain or anywhere else. It is the responsibility of the producer not to mislead the consumer and to pay the consumer for what he wants to pay for, or for quality. In any case, such a thing is unacceptable and this practice is being punished, controlled and increasingly controlled so that such a thing cannot happen. But it's gotta be about what you're buying at every commodity. This is best seen not in the case of perishable foods, but in a wine counter where you know exactly which country of wine you are buying.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U30	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U31	Thank you. Tarmo! I do not question the necessity of these rules, the need to incorporate European Union law. However, the directive differs from the regulation in that we have a country that chooses to implement the directive itself. Now my question is, I will return to it: how does this specific specific law relate to the general competition law, whether it should be interpreted as a specific part of the competition law, where competition rules are fully applied in general, or whether it is a full branch, or whether it creates a separate competitive environment with regard to commercial practices for agricultural products? My question is this: did the Commission consider this and why the Commission did not choose this path to include this law in the specific part of competition law, say, in one chapter or in a separate chapter?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U32	Thank you, Urmas! That's a good question. But since this is a government bill, I think it certainly went to the coordination circle and the parties discussed it and, if it was necessary to make proposals, you did so. I understand the logic of your question, but it is purely based on the European Union directive and on the requirements and limits set there, such as the number of days that have been set, etc. I don't know what would change for the manufacturer. I think it is very clear and understandable for the manufacturer how this supply chain will develop. I do not see the problem in this, Urmas, in order to deal with it separately.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U33	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U34	Thank you. First of all, thank you for your previous answer, for answering the question. But I think no one in the Riigikogu can say, not even the chairman of the committee, that I am sure no one will be fined. It is simply a right to a fine that is granted to an official and who that official is and why he is imposing a fine on something that we do not know in advance. When we talk about own production, the current law is very simple: I grow strawberries in Spain and pack them in Estonia, and at the moment that I have made any move in Estonia, it is already an Estonian product. So I could write "Estonia" on a packed strawberry box. Now it's a purely official's decision whether or not he's gonna fine my company with 100,000. The Estonian state has reached this stage that the Riigikogu gives the right to fine simply to some authority and the head of the department tells his official that it must be fined. And that's it. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Are we really on the right track to do this again? When a party talks about a police state, I say it's a state of officials...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U35	Time, Aivar!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U36	...who may be fined.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U37	Thank you, Aivar, for a good question. For the sake of the tenogram: I certainly did not say that there would certainly not be a fine. Apparently, the wording was that, for very simple reasons, there would be no fine. Otherwise, if we don't sign it into the law, why are we even doing that law? Fines will probably be carried out in a very prudent manner and there must be very prudent reasons. But if there is no fine, I ask what will force the merchants to comply with those dates, which is the penalty. Oh, good will or honesty? Are we going to sign the law "good will and honesty"? I don't know. There must be some kind of sanction. I am saying, Aivar, that no official is in office to punish anyone as soon as possible. There will probably be opportunities, and if the violation is very obvious, then it must be punished. But if it is not within this law and we simply rely on honest practices, good practices, then we are obviously not moving forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U38	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U39	Thank you, good vice chairman. Thank you, good waitress! It was so nice to hear the whole time thanking Tarmo, wasn't it, and for a moment I forgot that, oh-oh...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U40	The heart just got warm.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U41	But obviously you're already guessing my question. When will Estonia be transferred to the microbiological honey detection method that has come from Germany? Officials have always answered that, oh, we have to make our own model base. There is a functioning system in Europe and we could be among the ten most agile countries that detect quickly and cheaply. How it's not in this bill, I'm surprised.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U42	Thank you, Tarmo, for the question. This topic you have just set up is a very correct and topical issue: protect your manufacturer. Unfortunately, in the morning, I don't know who we were having a conversation with at the dinner table about how much honey is being brought here from China. No, I'm sorry, we're being moved to China and some countries are being brought to us, then exported. This is an important subject. It is exactly the same that we must be able to ensure that it is a product that we know is of high quality and meets standards and belongs to the host we buy from. Of course, the simple solution is to buy honey and strawberries from a neighbor or from a certain person, etc., but it is not possible for everyone who lives in the city. This detection method is being dealt with. It's not just honey, there's strawberry. As far as I am concerned, it is possible to identify in Finland, for example, whether the strawberry is of Finnish origin or not. The Ministry's working on it. I can't tell you what stage they're in, but there's a chance, and today's technology gives it a chance to find out where the eggs come from. Both honey and strawberry need to be specified, because there is a lot of counterfeiting, one can say, using the production of other countries and selling the expensive domestic production of Estonia to the head. The Estonian prefers Estonian, and it is, of course, good that Estonian consumer prefers domestic production, thereby supporting our manufacturer and entrepreneur. But it's being dealt with, both sides, honey and strawberry. That's a good question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U43	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U44	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Agriculture is crucial in terms of jobs in Estonia and also in terms of the overall share of GDP. When I read this bill, I saw that the first paragraph of the first paragraph seems to me rather confusingly worded, something promises, something forbids. But my question is rather that, as a waitress, how do you judge whether with this draft we are expanding or restricting competition in Estonian agriculture. How do you feel about whether with this draft we are creating any further restrictions and working in this competition and in this sector becomes more difficult, or vice versa, this will make things much clearer and create some new opportunities? Why don't you give me a look at this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U45	Thank you, Sven, for that good question. You rightly pointed out that Estonian agriculture has a very important role to play. First of all, to feed your people. But the Estonian farmer also exports a very large volume of production. It must have been in the third quarter of last year when you kept or raised growth to a certain level of ICT and agriculture. Well, let's see what's going on in the world: climate change, etc. We are exporting a great deal of production, for example, the total production of cereals was perhaps 1.7 million tonnes last year and half of it will definitely be exported. This will be a lot of money for the Estonian state. We also produce dairy products twice across Estonia. But this is an opportunity for the Estonian state and it will make us rich. I understand this issue very well, but I am saying that it rather supports the producer, in the sense that action becomes fair. If action is fair and competition is fair, there will probably be more people in this sector. If you can't compete on an honest basis, develop production, you're just gonna fall out. So I think it's more supportive. If you also know that you will get what you earn in time for your production, then it's positive. I think that, in any case, this is a good and positive draft in this respect; it certainly supports our manufacturer in particular.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U46	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I have not been involved in the work of the Committee on Rural Affairs for the last few months, and perhaps some nuances are difficult to understand as a result. But maybe you can help me out a little bit, Tarmo. Let's take § 5. Here is listed what is forbidden, what is a delivery-related unfair commercial practice. Paragraph 1 states that the buyer is prohibited from charging the seller a fee not linked to the sale of the seller's agricultural product and food. It's like it's the other way around that the seller gets paid, so here's the way the buyer should get paid. Open some of this. I think there are others in this room who need a little opening up. Open that cut.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U48	Thank you, Heiki! It was a good time when you were on the Committee on Rural Affairs. The point is that we are only talking about agricultural products, we are not talking about any other products. This defines very precisely what the agricultural product is. You can try to sell a merchant something made on the land, I don't know, a souvenir or anything. It does not extend to those products that are actually done on land. There's a lot of activity on Earth that people do, but it's just food. This bill and this whole law have focused on food and on getting the producer's money on time. But the activities that the country is engaged in are considerably wider, and that is what § 1 has been furnished.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U49	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U50	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Tarmo, the most famous! 2019 the Estonian Beekeeper Support Group was formed in the Riigikogu. Each has a beekeeper group, although it has been a beekeeper, beekeeper, or honey support group. It's for us, as you can see, the salt of the earth. 2019, I remember, you became your minister of rural affairs, and I asked about it. Now we've had this time of COVID, when people have worked remotely, they've got the computer to look at the truth. It's like contacts have been created, but I understand that someone has this interest, or how is it possible to be dealt with, but the result if it isn't. This is the cheaper option to prove the origin of honey than the current options offered in Estonia. What's the reason, can you tell me about this confrontation? You're not an official anymore, you're one of us today.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U51	Thank you, Tarmo! In fact, during the period I was a minister, we first introduced bee family support in Estonia, which had not been in Estonia so far, which is probably EUR 800000 per year and some EUR 25 per family. This is more or less the same level as Latvia and Finland, and we can compete on an equal footing with neighbouring countries. Estonian honey is produced a lot and Estonian honey is also exported a lot. When I visited Japan as a minister, there were people who sold enough honey to Japan each year. But I understand that the emphasis on your question is still on this question of origin. It's being dealt with. I think it will be a matter of time before we know exactly that it is Estonian honey in Estonia, and the person of Estonia can be sure that it has not been introduced from anywhere. The worst thing would be to eat honey into the head of Estonia's very high-quality honey, according to our belief, from other countries where different methods are used for what the honey is put in and what the crops have on them. We must be sure that it is Estonian and high quality honey. The Estonian producer makes high-quality products and especially on the food side, there is no point in doubting it. But we all have to fight fraud, it's part of our work, you're a minister, a committee or a member of the Riigikogu, no matter. Fair competition and not cheating on people. A person has to pay money for what he's sure that's what it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U52	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I am not a member of your committee and, therefore, I do not have as precise and as direct information as the Members of the Commission when dealing with this draft. But when I read the draft explanatory memorandum, I see that you have done a good job in this respect, that not only has the government prepared the draft for coordination circles, but the Commission has also asked for the opinion of the various market participants. A number of opinions have also been put forward here; these are set out in the explanatory memorandum. However, I note that the Commission has generally not taken these opinions into account. I look in a row: I have not supported, I have not supported. Perhaps in a few words you will open up what such important proposals were. There were many of these changes, but what were the most important proposals that market participants pointed out? Perhaps in a few words, why were these amendments generally not supported? However, a market participant's proposal generally means that he has a shoe squeeze and a problem somewhere. Maybe in a few words, you could open up some of that feedback.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U54	Thank you, Sven! I like that you've read it carefully. But I'm telling you, the main argument was the deadlines. Traders don't like fast payback schedules. But we were based on the fact that, for example, in Finland and Sweden, this deadline is even shorter. We must also take into account that we have a very large number of trade chains in foreign capital and that the large chains do not actually have a shortage of money. It is simply a lack of will, why payments cannot be made in time. But the main dispute was, in fact, over those payment terms. A 60-day payment deadline was requested. We agreed on 30 days for all goods, perishable food and others. I think the merchants will understand, and there will certainly not be much protest. I am convinced that merchants are reasonable and understandable, they also understand the will and the situation of the producer, because for the producer it is an income that can be used to live somewhere on the edge of the village. The main dispute was over these deadlines, either 30 or 60. Finland has used the 15-day deadline here. We chose the church in the middle of the village.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U55	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. We can go to the negotiations. Tarmo Kruusimäe has been the first to express the wish for negotiations. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U56	I'm not turning for a drink until later. [[The sound of a glass.]] Thank you, good vice-chairman, good folklores and, of course, people who watch us on the Internet or on YouTube! Well, that's the thing to talk about! I'm just like many of you, honey, honey is the most characteristic of our region, he's the most vitamin-rich, he's like ours. Well, if the Spaniards have olive oil, we have honey. Beekeepers actually have a lot of problems. I congratulate all of you who have previously made these support groups. I didn't have much of a rush, but the beekeepers I knew just laid these problems in front of me. So I grew up with these problems. Yesterday, many noticed that I was wearing a mask in this hall. This is precisely because the President of the Riigikogu said that the hall is buzzing. And then I put this mask on. Obviously, you know Steinfeldt's song, "Sum, summ, summ, summ, summ, summ, summ." "Mesimum Sing": the weary left wing of the honeymoon flying. I'm actually saying I don't get it. They're working on it. In Germany, a very simple method has been developed of how this analysis can be done, but of course they need this so-called honey gene in advance, say, a database to which all of Estonia would send its [examples]. Today, in fact, a merchant has the right to ask a beekeeper or a honey association about the origin of his honey. It is extremely difficult to organise it here in Estonia and you may have to take away your production from [sales], all the more so since the large shops are dictating the price themselves. Only the volume, it's useful to sell on this volume. But you're about to see the kind of squeezes that seem appropriate. After all, then, we have that everyone can make a note that "Clean Estonia" or "Estonian Nature" or "Estonian Product" paper suffers from everything. Now of foreign origin. At this point, if I'm wrong now, I hope the beekeepers won't come and shove me for it. The consumption of honey from some lavender fields, somewhere there, has caused some disturbance to the Estonian people. Because our organism may not accept it. We're used to taking honey from our region here. It's been discussed, and we have a solution. Same as strawberry. We have a ferry to Finland and back, we have an example. Maybe if we hadn't screwed up our relations with our neighbours in the north, we would have known how to determine this origin in Estonia long ago or how it was, I'm sorry, know-how. Because, as someone said, when we complained here that we did not have strawberry pickers, Estonian strawberry was sold on the Riga market. We had a big problem, but there it was cheaper and more sustainable. Now for bringing in honey of dubious origin. I guess that's what they do here on the spot. It's just cooking sugar syrup over there because sugar is cheaper than honey, it's extending well, it's kind of a bar term. Now, yes, the bee family allowance has come. But this bill doesn't talk about bee family support. We would like to talk about the real and slightly bigger problem of beekeepers, which is not only a beekeeper problem, but also a honey consumer problem. I've already talked about it here once. Honey is so important to me, it's deeper than water, sweeter than honey. It's love, I'm an ambassador of love here, an ambassador of honey love. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U57	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U58	Thank you. The problem is the abundance of bears. We have spoken in the costaires that there could be 300 bears in Estonia. There are some 900 bears officially in Estonia, which means that it is estimated that there are 1100. We're gonna talk about the numbers of bears when they find bloody rubbers under the woods. Then we'll wake up. In Finland, three health athletes have already fallen victim to a bear. I think there might actually be more of them. We should respect our own people. For beekeepers, bear numbers are a problem. Also compensation for the honey paw, what is it? Before, there was a requirement to have three wires of the electric shepherd. Now it turns out that the bear can rise even higher when it gets up, and there must be five wires. That's all the investment a beekeeper has to put in there. If the merchant says he doesn't know the origin of this honey, and we say that there are people in the Ministry of Rural Affairs who are always involved, but there is no result, there is no advantage, then is it not a malicious counter-work on the same bill, even in order not to give any relief? Then when the bear rat comes and you've got all the beehives on the ground, the official comes and says, "Oh, you had three of those shepherd wires. No compensation! " Another thing is that this [compensation] is so small. There are good solutions in Europe, we are a Member State of the European Union, but now, as such puritans, we are fighting hooves: no, we do not want to, we want to deal with ourselves, we want to invent our own new bicycle. We can do that, we have the app economy and everything, but in a situation where the bill is on the table right now, it should be perfectly normal. In Germany, this thing exists, beekeepers are prepared to send samples to Germany with their own cost and letters. We're still talking about what we're doing, but in fact, beekeepers are still under so-called pressure from merchants. When the merchant says, "Kind out where this honey came from," the beekeeper has to do it more expensive times. It's some kind of paradigm change you need. But I don't think it is. I think somebody's got their own interests, whoever's transporting or who's in that garage just made the place where he welds the sugar, boils up. And so he is, secret spirit, secret vodka and all these things. Tarmo, as far as there's a chance, as chairman of the committee, straighten your back! Tarmo is the real name of an Estonian man. We show that we break this wall of officials and we ensure that beekeepers can still prove that it is of Estonian origin much cheaper. I will end this again because repeating is the mother or father of wisdom: deeper than water, sweeter than honey, it is love. Meet an ambassador for honey love, Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U59	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U60	Dear Vice-Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, different parties are involved in the completion of this law. When you look at the table of proposals, there are quite a number of proposals. Whether it's a good law or a bad law, life shows. I think it could have been tougher. Finland, for example, has set, as Tarmo said, a 15-day payment period for fruit and vegetables. We have 30 days for everyone. It could have been 60 days and 30 days for a perishable food product, but it was a compromise for all 30 days. This is a transposition of the minimum requirements of the Directive. This law protects the sellers of agricultural products and foodstuffs from unfair commercial practices of buyers. In fact, this law has been expected for quite a long time. Still quite a few years, I remember, I've been talking about it, but I haven't been able to get through to the law. Now, in the end, that desire has come to reality. This mainly concerns food producers, who are relatively few and who sell their products to large chains of trade. These large trading chains often take advantage of the strength of the producers. The price shall be lowered, the sale shall be made without agreement with the seller, and no agreement shall be reached on how the goods will behave in the event of deterioration. There have been occasions when goods, or foodstuffs, have been allowed to perish, the manufacturer has been called and said: "Come now and clean up your spoiled goods. " In addition to this, there are mutual fines. The producer is subject, because he is indeed afraid that he will no longer be able to sell the goods. This is not an isolated incident. There were still no national laws in four Member States: Estonia, the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Malta. Everyone else has it. The date of entry into force of the act is set at 1 November 2021. As was said before, the law lists 16 unfair commercial practices, nine of which are in any case and are always prohibited, including a 30-day payment deadline (also the producer needs money, he cannot wait 60 or 90 days, as long as he is paid), a fee that is not linked to the sale of food, payments for food waste or loss, a refusal to buy at short notice. [It is not permitted] to unilaterally amend the terms of the contract, not to issue a letter of confirmation of the terms of the supply contract, which is also quite often used, to receive and use the seller's business secrets, to threaten the seller by means of pressure, to require the seller to reimburse the costs associated with the customer's complaint. There have been quite a few cases that the chain of commerce calls the seller and says: "The client was not happy with your goods, so pay me a fine for not being able to sell. " Under the law, supervision is exercised by the Competition Authority, rules are laid down for unfair commercial practices. Partners have come up with a number of suggestions to clarify the law. Many of these have not been taken into account. The reason for this is that the aim of the law is not to go beyond the minimum requirements of the directive before the practice of implementing the law has arisen. At some point, there will be meetings, a review of the implementation practice and, if necessary, tougher or vice versa. But so far, where unfair commercial practices are not regulated, the Law of Obligations Act can be used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U61	Thank you. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U62	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, There is no doubt that this is an important law. You could say it's an important regulation. From the previous speaker, we heard that Estonia was one of the few countries where it had not yet been regulated. It is also true that, as always, solutions could still have been chosen to add it to competition law, for example, or to resolve it in a different way, in order to control our legislative production a little. But maybe that's not all that matters. There's a law here, there's a law there. We still have them like Vändra's lumberboards. But what really matters is how we understand it or how easily we grasp it. That's a problem. Urmas Reinsalu read § 1, its meaning and its wording. It seems that we have, in general, given up the drafting of laws so that the law is easily and unambiguously understood. I may come back to this issue one more time later in my speech, but for now, I would like to take a little more of a look at this subject. It is true that rural life is important for Estonia; agriculture is important. Both are part of regional policy. If agriculture is doing well, there is a great hope that the rural economy will also do well. So this is an important draft in this context. Going down from there: the components that it all affects or really depends on are very much, and that is why this law should be relatively simple and easy to understand and read. The previous speaker, Tarmo Kruusimäe, also spoke about a component of beekeeping. Colorfully speaking, he is not in vain a member of the Beekeeper Support Group. But we also know the problems and questions that we have raised about honey. Can we be sure that when we buy honey from the store, if we do not have our own bodyguard, we still get what is written on the label, and does it correspond to the quality that has been brought down there? Secondly, I also really asked about what we have talked about more: strawberries. There are too many problems and questions. Is and how is it guaranteed by the manufacturer that the seller would sell the right goods? Now this is the supply chain: the manufacturer, the processor can also come in, then there is the seller, we can talk about the wholesaler and the retailer, and finally there is the buyer. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U63	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U64	Now we've come to the buyer. Indeed, on Article 5, I asked about my question, I quoted it, and afterwards I consulted Merry Aart on the question of who is meant to be here as a buyer. It says here that the buyer is forbidden to charge the seller a fee not linked to the sale of the seller's agricultural product and food. As a general rule, if we give something to sell, the seller pays the buyer, which is already reflected in the purchase price. I now look, indeed, that there will be more restrictions, all of which are prohibited, and all of them are appropriate. In particular, I would like to say that when we talk about the payment deadline to be fixed, it is very important. But there really is a whole line of these points. Now, I'm looking at what's a buyer, trying to open it. For the purposes of this Act, the buyer's definition is that the purchaser of the agricultural product and food is a person who buys an agricultural product and food, including a government agency or agency administered by a government agency, an authority administered by a local authority or an authority administered by an authority, or an association of such bodies, a legal person governed by public law or an association of such persons. Did it get any clearer? Ain't no shit. Well, of course, this pulpit can still be produced. And little of this chancellorite, if it were understood, then, let's say, swallow it. I am the faith of the European Union, and I do not think that it will only be bad and that all the rules that come from it should inevitably be rejected. But we must adapt them so that they are at the service of our people, so that our people can understand them, so that there is no pointless bureaucracy, so that we ourselves are not more holy than the Pope. It seems to me that we are once again trying to push this understanding towards the edge in the context of this law. I think now that the long story here is summed up, that the direction is the right one, that the law is needed. It could have been a little better, a little bit more understandable, indeed, that it would unambiguously protect our rural area, our farmers, and that these rules, indeed, once again, would still be equally understandable for everyone, both sellers and buyers, throughout this supply chain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U65	Thank you. Tarmo Kruusimäe probably wants a line.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U66	Yeah. Thank you, good vice chairman. I missed it from the big remote because everyone would have thought I had a direct personal connection to the matter or an interest in it, but they don't. In fact, by washing the meers, we actually get a very energy-rich liquid from which you can heat-treated ethanol, for example, which could be completely free from our green mark and bio-addition, right, maybe you shouldn't get real gasoline on it, but it could be. The other thing is that today we have this COVID. It could be a disinfectant, anything, I don't know. In the previous composition, Aivar Kokk was the chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs, and I always bothered him whether this is not possible, because in the next generation it is even allowed to make fuel for people. We're going to have all this energy-rich liquid in the ditch. We are still completely lacking such a peasant's wisdom. If others make it a cleaner, a bio-addict, or a human fuel, a man-made or whatever these drinks are, I've had 20 years, I can't remember the names anymore, then there's a way to get on with it. I think they could dig that oil shale over there, and all if we had green marking in place, if all beekeepers could produce and register. Sometimes it happens that some cleaning agent goes right around the face right into the mouth, isn't it, and that's not the problem? We've been smart, but today we're not smart, but we're still obsessed with the fact that we have to pour it into a ditch, because that's the way it is and we don't dare regulate it differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U67	Thank you. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U68	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I have to admit that this issue is generally not new, although it seems now that a directive has come from somewhere in the European Union and Estonia has to take over quickly. When we read the explanatory memorandum to this law and this explanation and this law, we actually see a very big contradiction there. We're talking about a subject. The aforementioned Directive establishes minimum standards of protection against unfair commercial practices in the European Union, taking into account the relative size of the supplier and the buyer, with a view to protecting the supplier from a greater buyer. The principle of minimum harmonisation was chosen to allow Member States to adopt or maintain national rules. Here we only talk about one side all the time. We are talking about a producer, a farmer. At the same time, we are also talking about the industry that sells to merchants. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: the Rakvere meat factory versus, for example, the Gross trade, which is the bigger one, which actually dictates the terms, is a merchant who is a small seller with 70 shops, though a small shop, or is he actually a manufacturer? The Merchants' Association proposed that the draft law be applied on the basis of the annual turnover of buyers and sellers. Under the Directive, imposing unfair commercial practices is excluded from the position of large companies in favour of smaller companies. This point has been ignored if I read the law correctly now. I admit that the same thing ran into the Committee on Rural Affairs during the previous term. Actually, you have to look at both sides. Yes, the big chains often take advantage of the fact that they have large sales space and that anyone who produces anything would want to sell in this store or chain of commerce. But having been an entrepreneur throughout the period of independence, I know the other half. In fact, if I have some kind of merchandise and nobody else has it, everyone wants it, and I, the owner of this commodity, dictate. Unfortunately, that's not in the law. You have to look at both sides very clearly and at what position someone is in. Small businesses are much more complicated. Of course, it is difficult for him to get anywhere to sell his goods, and then tough conditions will be put in place. You know, I'm saying whether it's 15 days, 30 days, 60 days or 90 days, the payment deadline is absolutely not important. The important thing is that when this deadline is over, they will be paid at the time. The worst part is that you know that cash flows will come to you on that date, but in reality, it will be a month, two or three later. That's definitely a problem. On the one hand, here is the case, I would like to make sure that the size of the package cannot be adjusted, nor the kind of euro base it is on. The merchant also has his own storage area. He'll take into account how much production he can hold in the warehouse. If he has to take more goods, he'll take two risks. One is that he must have a larger storage area, and the other is that certain goods may perish. After all, we have groceries for sale online that can still be used in a year, two or three. Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U69	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U70	After all, today it is not a question of what is the deadline for payment. Of course, fast-selling goods may have a much shorter payment period, that is not the question. But it's sad to say that when a bill is taken over, they say it came from the government, it came from the ministry. I'm saying a lot of things come from there. There was a law of land repair, where the word "steak" had disappeared from, was "excessive." Let's go to the country, see if anyone knows. Does Tartu's girl know exactly what the front stream is, but she certainly knows what a ditch is, she already knows from the time the ditches were dug to dry out her country. Here's the exact same thing that's gone into one corner and left the other without a corner. To be honest, the Commission could interrupt the second reading of the draft. I don't think there's any further improvements to be made here. Only that it is important that the amount of turnover actually is, and according to this, it becomes clear which side is still the one who dictates the terms and who does not. The second thing that always bothers me is that there will be fines, EUR 600 for natural persons and EUR 100000 for legal persons, and then there will be 16 conditions that can be fined. There's a sentence written in it: at some point there's gonna be a set of rules. Who's gonna make this rulebook, when's it gonna come? It has been our custom, in this Chamber at least, during the last three formations, that when the bill comes to second reading, the rules are included. I did, but I didn't see the rules in the explanatory statement. Will the Competition Authority at one point make this set of rules without it being clear to us who we are going to stop reading the second reading of this law today and not later than in the autumn, we will arrive at the third reading? We don't know what the rule book is. Is this set of rules that certain companies will cease to operate because they cannot comply with these rules, just because the risk is too great? If a small business is fined once by 100,000, then, I think, most of the small businesses are bankrupt after that, and that's all they're doing. I would certainly recommend that you look very lightly at all the drafts with two parties. It is never the case that one party is good and the other is bad. Both have their problems and there are disputes. The bill is very necessary. But here, in my opinion, there is still no clear definition of how this is and, on the other hand, of how it is calculated in terms of size. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U71	Thank you. Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U72	Thank you! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mark up some of the issues and to refute some of the statements that have been made on this draft. First of all, it is extremely nice that so many members of the Riigikogu take the floor on the topics of the Committee on Rural Affairs, including those who have never asked any questions. This is very welcome, because it means that we are all getting up to speed on these issues, and we should be informed. In any case, this is very welcome. But one of the topics that so many referred to here and which I fully agree with is that Estonian lawmaking must be based on a good and beautiful Estonian language. Indeed, it is unacceptable that we have nearly one hundred words, which are very difficult to understand even by lawyers, more so for rural people or farmers, from whom we cannot expect very high levels of legal preparation to understand these texts. Indeed, this topic has been here in the Riigikogu for years that the laws should be unambiguous to everyone. As far as I know, a former colleague, Maret Maripuu, has written research on this subject. But we will continue to face this issue with this draft, too, and not just with this one. A good colleague, Urmas Reinsalu, pointed out this topic here today. I'm pretty sure if we're going through the laws that went under her hand while she was ministering, we'll definitely find these very long, long, intercom and allusions there too. In fact, a solution has to be found, because it wastes people's time. Any lack of comprehension creates interpretations in the courts and thereby exhausts the judicial system. This is a separate issue that all laws must deal with. In this case, it should be dealt with by the responsible minister, Urmas Kruuse. But to the minister responsible, I have questions. He's not here today, but his officials can certainly take questions to him. Just this morning I received a letter in my mailbox from the Estonian Rural Tourism Association, which includes more than 300 tourist companies from all over Estonia. They are still waiting for a solution; one issue remained unresolved in the state budget procedure. Kruuse promised rural tourism operators that a solution would be found, so far no crisis aid has been found either through the MES or through any other sub-offices of the Ministry of Rural Affairs. This issue definitely needs to be resolved and quickly resolved, as it is a problem for all rural tourism companies across Estonia. We know that tourism has lost the most in this crisis. Strawberries on the Riga market. I want to refute the claim made by a good colleague, Tarmo Kruusimäe, just like selling strawberries on the Riga market, if there is a sign that they are Estonian strawberries, to prove something to us. Even less, it proves that we have enough strawberry pickers so that we can even place these strawberries on the Riga market. I think that the sign near there might be a slogan to sell the strawberry, because it will have a very positive effect on the Latvian customer. We have no system in the world to take on two strawberries and say iron-proof knowledge, scientifically proven, where this strawberry grew and where the second strawberry grew. There is no such system. This can be done, perhaps, in the case of the use of pesticides, if there is some sort of coding on this pesticide, by which it could be identified in any way, but this is not a single proof that this strawberry has ever grown in Estonia. After all, we have had the same problem here in the markets when we put in advertising phrases, but we can never check whether it is actually Estonian strawberry or whether it is Polish strawberry. There have been problems. So, unfortunately, we're facing this... Thank you. One more minute, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U73	One minute more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U74	... on the subject still. All these issues should be addressed in a complex way, through ministerial agencies, seeking solutions. We certainly cannot, based on anyone's argument here in the Riigikogu, say whether the honey was from Estonia or the strawberry was from there. Of course, this requires a very thorough scientific analysis and, in turn, proof that these claims are firm. But let's definitely continue on these issues. Thank you to everyone who is interested in the issues of rural people and who has taken the floor on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U75	Tarmo, you'll be able to perform with a reply once, no more. [[A voice from the hall.]] Someone else is trying, but now it's Tarmo Tamme's speech. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U76	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It seems that the Riigikogu's night sessions have had a positive effect, as there is a great deal of talk on agricultural issues. It's just a pleasure. When it comes to this directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on Sven and other economic people, there is, in fact, a difference, because it is not directly subject to competition law and market-economy rules, but it was dealt with in the European Parliament and in the Council for a very long time. For its part, Ivari Padar may recall that this issue has been on the agenda for a very long time. The aim is to protect their producers. There is no other way to protect our producers. One might say that, according to the rules of the free market economy, some producers simply die out in the market; they cannot get the money for their product. He is, yes, going a little beyond the rules of competition and market economy, but this is what has been agreed in the European Parliament and the Council, and I think it is very positive. Estonia is one of the last countries to join it in the first place. In any case, we must protect our manufacturer. Imrele: In fact, in Finland the strawberry is already detectable, this methodology exists. We have the exact same thing, it's possible even with fish. I remember when I went to the University of Tartu to get to know scientists, they said that it was possible to make sure that the fish was from Estonia. We were talking about riverfish. There was a lot of talk about beekeeping. To the president of the Beekeeper Support Group, I will also say the name to Tarmo, I can say that there has been a great deal of positive progress in this area. For example, plants can only be sprayed at night. It was not before that, from 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 a.m., only it would have been possible to squirt flowering plants. It's a big step forward to protect the bees. But we only talk about bees when we talk about men. Actually, we should talk about them as pollinators. If there are no pollinators, a very large part of the crop will be lost. I think it was even the kind of statistics that were produced in the European Union that pollinators give 12% of GDP, and that's a pretty big number. We have to protect all pollinators around us, from flower to flower, etc. There's a small part of the honey here. But I thank you for this meaningful debate and I hope that this bill will become a law. Then our producers will be protected equally with producers in other countries of the European Union, as the purpose of this bill is. Thank you and good luck.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U77	Imre Sooääre has a line.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U78	Thank you, good manager. Good colleague Tarmo! You gave me a chance to reply, I'm sure I'll take advantage of it. Yes, I fully agree with you that there is a system in Finland, it is used, but this system is not recognised across the European Union in all countries. Everyone fights for their own market, and everyone fights in a way that makes them better. If there is ever a single system that all the countries of the European Union really recognise, we could talk about it as a certain and waterproof thing. Today it is only in Finland, and very many European countries do not recognise it. So there's still a long way to go. But I agree that it would be useful for Estonia if we could protect our goods through it. So there is definitely a point here to create such a system for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U79	Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U80	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I think, as my colleague Imre Sooäär said, that it is very positive that so many members of the Riigikogu have actively participated in the rounds of questions and also presented their opinions and speeches. Agriculture in its nature is one of the important sectors in Estonia, the proportion of which is significant in terms of both the provision of work to people and the monetary value of the total GDP of the country. I think all the different activities that are being carried out in this sector could and should be subject to increased attention. It is good to see that here in the Riigikogu, too, where, I do not know, nine or ten people are specifically on the Committee on Rural Affairs, who are so-called in-depth involved in this, but this topic interests a much larger number of members of the Riigikogu outside this committee. Now for the bill. I think this bill is reasonable and correct in its nature. As Tarmo Tamm stated, the regulations and clarifications that are made in themselves in order to reduce dishonesty, I think, are reasonable in nature. Actually, they're reasonable. I remember, once, when I spoke to the administration of the tax administration, as the Minister of Finance himself, the IRS said that they would make the maximum effort to remove unfair entrepreneurs from the market and the maximum effort to make it as easy for honest entrepreneurs to work as possible, starting with declarations, etc. So it is reasonable to regulate in itself and to put in place possible nuances that would rule out dishonesty and the potential competitive advantage from it. Indeed, this particular draft provides for this. But everything has its own buts, as usual. It is also often said that it does not matter what you say in the first half of the sentence, but it is important that there is a question that comes after. Maybe I'd like to talk in a few words about the so-called "but" too. The intrinsic objective of this draft is, in fact, minimum standards of protection against unfair commercial practices in the European Union. This is, in fact, the general objective of this directive. It should be noted that, if we look at the whole text of the draft, which in itself involves 16 unfair commercial practices, which are listed here and which receive greater attention in the context of this particular draft, then Estonia, as has often happened before, has perhaps taken a longer step than the European Union has provided for us with its own directive. I very much acknowledge, as I said on the question, the chairman of the Commission and the committee, before I may go into the content of a few points. I think it is very important that market participants and umbrella organisations are not asked for an opinion only when this draft or any draft is being prepared. It is generally done at government level and has its own coordination circle practices. In fact, however, there is also a substantive debate and a question of opinions in Parliament. It is true that this has been done here, and on this point the chairman of the Commission and the committee must be commended. An opinion has been requested. Moreover, how often it is that the opinion is asked and it may seem formal and feedback may not often come, because all opinions and disagreements have been fixed in the course of previous coordinations, it was a little different this time. There were a lot of opinions this time. I looked at that list. I'd say everyone who was asked for an opinion made it known. And what's more, with this bill, it's like... I'd like an extra three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U81	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U82	In the case of this draft, this is an interesting thing, and it happens from time to time, that opinions are contradictory. While market participants often agree on one thing or another, this time it is true that these visions are quite contradictory. One would like to turn on the winch, and the other says, "Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, In this sense, the confrontation between producers and sellers is felt to some extent, which is reflected in the amendments. Of course, every member of the Riigikogu has an opinion on this matter. I have to admit that I am certainly, and I am not ashamed to say this, an admirer of this school, who says, rather, the less sanctions and regulations there are, the better. I'll be honest with you, I'm a fan of this school. There must be legal frameworks for how to act, otherwise there will be anarchy if there aren't, but the fewer there are any rules that restrict us, the easier it will be to do business. I have always said that if the budget has to be conservative, then the economy should be liberal. It's like that logic. Here I would rather share this view with the Chamber of Commerce and the Traders' Association. I think we've put too many restrictions on this place. I would point out that I think we could rather have stuck to minimum standards. I also say that to the Commission. I thought you two met at the beginning of June. Perhaps, but I do not feel it, I am not a member of the Commission, I should have kept it then, it is not a reproach, I really do not know exactly the background of the negotiations with market participants yet. Life usually shows that if we voluntarily impose greater restrictions on ourselves, this will lead to greater frustration and greater discord in the market. Perhaps this should have meant what I see in my Committee on Home Affairs, in the Committee on Economic Affairs, where we are doing large round tables, hovering and yapping on some subject. More to talk than less to talk. I don't want to be here, once again, from the pulpit with some epistle reader, but it seems to me that these inconsistencies may have stayed on the table more than maybe they should have. But in the end, yes, it seems to me that we have gone a little too far from such a minimum harmonisation with this bill. This is, in my opinion, a problem to some extent, but, by its very nature, this bill is on this table today and, in itself, it is actually the right thing to do in this market that creates certain gaming frames. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U83	Thank you. Next up, Urmas Reinsalu. Three minutes extra time right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U84	Honourable representative of the people! I am concerned about the dynamics and the tendencies to which our legislation is moving on an ever-expanding scale. Estonia has a total of 400+ laws. Now we are creating an independent law, the so-called novel law, which deals with a very narrow outline of solving the legal problem. I do not question the content of the European directive. Clearly, if Estonia has participated in and agreed to its development, then it is also Estonia's duty to harmonise European Union law, the acquis. But the question is why we have chosen this path. I must, however, regardless of the great respect for Tarmo Tamme, say that I am confused as to why we have not chosen this route, so that we would have taken the Estonian Competition Act, which sets out the general part of the competition rules that I believe should apply to competition in agricultural products anyway, and incorporated, also using the same concept system, into one chapter of this special part of the competition law. The second thing I drew attention to concerns the language of the law. I quoted (who is in front of the draft law, you can read) § 1 (1). This reminded me of school-time, university-time philosophy classes, where at other times there were concepts that you had to read twice or three times, because in the middle of the term, it was translated from the language of philosophers, the understanding of the German concept was interrupted. You had to come back and count it many times. But the language of the law can't be like that. I recall the famous German legal philosopher Savigny. Savigny's words, which should be our guide, are that a lawyer must think like a philosopher and speak like a peasant. Its paragraph 1 (1) has happened backwards: it is spoken like a philosopher, but the content is actually a peasant, very practical code of conduct. I call because I think that we do not have such a storm with the transposition of this directive that we are considering an interruption and trying to make it a legal language that meets the minimum requirements of the comprehension of the Estonian language. The current text of the law, first of all, as a separate novel law, is unnecessary in the legal space. Secondly, I argue that language comprehension is a cultural issue in the case of language in general, but it must be a minimum requirement in the legal language. These are my references to this bill. I would like to hope that, if these matters are resolved, it will be possible to move forward with this legislation without delay. The volume of legislation is increasing, and its centre of gravity in Parliament must be such that, not to say yes to all legislative initiatives, any government will be in Parliament, but there must be an overwhelming argument as to why a new independent legislation should be created. I didn't see that explanation in the explanatory memorandum at the moment either. With the new legislation, with the law making array, the situation is that we have, like, the presumption of innocence in these texts, but should be, on the contrary, the presumption of guilt should be. I hope that this spirituality in this Parliament, this will and readiness in this Parliament will be on a stronger and more solid basis over the next few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U85	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U86	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I may be a little bit in the beginning to sum up why all this has happened and whether, today, by approving this legislation, we will finally break the liberal market economy. I have even thought that we have two liberal parties here, we have a Eurosceptic party here, but it seems that everyone agrees. I agree, by the way, with this bill. But where is this deep reason? The deep reason is all over Europe, but I think it is also such a global issue. Trade is much better concentrated and stands up for its positions than primary production, or agriculture. That's just it. I also said this thing here at first reading. For example, I remember one comparison with the Netherlands. The Netherlands is the right country and the population is much bigger than ours, but in fact agricultural policy is regulated there by seven trade chains. If we look at all the Member States, that is the case. I don't want to say anything bad about the chains, but it's bound to happen that they're like the yachts. As a result, and as a result, on the side of the European Parliament, the first thought was given to what regulation to find on this matter. The other side is that it is the common agricultural policy of the European Union. After all, we are trying to support agriculture and rural areas with 30 to 40% of the European Union's common budget, or somewhere 0.4% of the European Union's GDP, goes to support agriculture on the one hand. On the other hand, the money that reaches the final consumer is going out of agriculture. There was no other option in this respect. This matter needed regulation, it was long negotiated at the level of the European Parliament. Now there's a solution. This is a minimum standard for all Member States of the European Union for how relations between primary production and trade should be regulated. We don't know how it's gonna support it, how it's gonna really live, but we're gonna do the best we can. I simply inevitably think that trade is more robust and more concentrated and out for its views than farmers are. It was that big idea of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U87	Thank you. Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U88	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I wasn't planning on coming here, but Sven got what to say, heard the speech and listened to the Urmas speech, and I still had to come. This law is a law to prevent unfair commercial practices in the agricultural product and food supply chain. That's a new law. With every law, we create more boundaries. That's how it's twofold. Does this law give us the opportunity to do things more honestly, or is it going to limit the opportunities that we really have? Listening to Sven, it became clear that it would be a siege. Because with every new norm, we're creating more obstacles. But once again, democratic society is one such interesting organism, where there are constant restrictions on different norms, different approaches. The way it is, if we want to live by the Wild West, it's as if we don't need laws, everyone has a colt on his belt, and someone with a bigger colt and a more accurate hand, it sells their business much better. We want to sell fair, we want it to sell our thing, too, who doesn't have that heavy colt on his hip and who hasn't learned how to shoot well. So if we've said a, we often have to say b. That's it. If we adopt certain laws that give someone some kind of right to be stronger and bigger, and leave the unregulated weaker side, then this is what happens when the weaker side gets weaker and the big one finally eats the weak one. So you always have to think about two sides here. What do we do now? I can't tell you what's good. But I have this feeling that it's still good to protect the weak when we're starting to go somewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U89	Thank you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U90	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Another directive. I don't know how much we've talked about these last night. The numbers are different: 2019/633. It should be as if already adopted by 1 May, in the autumn, on 1 November. Midsummer is approaching, but there is a tradition that the directive needs to be adopted, but we are dragging on. This period is not very long. But it's a great thing in itself, and it applies everywhere. It is also said at home, and parents have said that a large person must not hurt a smaller person. It's as simple as that. But now, in the context of this directive, when you look at the fact that the big one must not hurt the smaller one, who is the big one and who is the little one? There are five large ones in the context of this directive. You know who the five big ones are, you go there every day, I think. The name of one is Prisma, the name of the other is Selver, the third is Coop, the fourth is Maxima. Five big ones. Their retail turnover is 1.7 billion out of all the other 2.4 billion. The profits I have counted, the total profits on the retail chains that sell the food, of course, we talk about food above all, are 85 million and these retail chains, this 80% or five large, 71. It says that it's big, when you start comparing them to those who grow something in the country, they're strawberries to be on the wave that's about to come, or something else. The buyer can dictate and dictate these terms. I was surprised to read here that Estonia is among three in Europe who have not applied such things before. Now this directive is before us or on our backs, you can say that, depending on who to look at. I watched last summer when the minister was Arvo Aller, which was discussed at the Ministry House. There weren't any estimates that were going to happen back then. Urmas Kruuse was then simply a member of the Committee on Rural Affairs and spoke eagerly about the spoiled goods that were God's truth. It's one of those things that can cause problems. Now let's see, here I took out what the producers' organisations have proposed and what the so-called buyers' representatives, merchants have said. The assessment of merchants or their representatives is not very happy. Sirje Potisepp has said: "The consumer does not know how the product of his home shop will develop and why the product has suddenly not become his customary. It would be logical to assume that the product did not have enough buyers and was therefore withdrawn from the sale. But it's not always like that. " So food manufacturers are in a strange situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U91	Peter, do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U92	Yeah, a few minutes, three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U93	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U94	Yeah. I'm not going to quote Sirje Potiseppa anymore. But I wanted to bring out one when I find it, a suggestion. It's from farmers. Here it is that, since the directive is at the back of the neck, it must be implemented in any case. I am already saying in advance that I think it is a good thing that Europe has now at least begun to force us, even though we have had the opportunity to adopt this good practice voluntarily before and there is much more of it than in this directive. But what, for example, has the Farmers' Confederation offered? Unfair commercial practices must be prohibited in all business-to-business relationships, regardless of the size of the company. Now there is an interesting answer, which is repeated for the various proposals, not just for the proposal of the Farmers' Confederation. It's always said they weren't counted. "Although Directive (EU) 2019/633 requires minimum harmonisation (see Article 9), it is possible in Estonian law to establish protection against unfair commercial practices other than those set out in the directive, the purpose of the draft is to transpose the provisions of the directive into Estonian law and not go beyond them until the implementation practice of the law has arisen. " Such a chorus is repeated on different occasions. This answer is clearly put here with a copy-paste. But in conclusion, another directive. I do not like the directives, but sometimes they are useful and, above all, I think they are good for the producers. In my district in Jõgeva and Tartu, this is certainly useful because we have small farmers who need to be protected from the big ones. I repeat, for the big ones who hurt the smaller ones. How they do it, at least I haven't read the impact analysis on it. But these are five big ones where we all inevitably go almost every day. So think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U95	Thank you. I will not see any more requests to speak, I will close the negotiations. We can go to the examination of the amendments. There has been one amendment to the draft, the author of which is the Committee on Rural Affairs, and the Steering Committee itself has decided to take full account of it. The commission has proposed to stop the second reading of draft 377, but the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia has proposed to interrupt the second reading of the draft. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U96	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. On behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, before the vote on the cut-off proposal, I ask for a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U97	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U98	Break's over. I shall put to the vote the second reading of draft 377 proposed by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U99	In favour of 0, 63 votes against and 1 abstention, the proposal was not supported. Okay. The second reading of the bill has been completed and is it really? The second item has also been closed. Very good!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U100	We will move on to the third item on the agenda: First reading of the Bill amending the Income Tax Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 402. Please contact the Minister of Finance of the Riigikogu Chair Keit Pentus-Rosimannud. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U101	Thank you very much, Chairman of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has submitted a draft Income Tax Act to the Riigikogu for its first reading, ending the tax relief introduced in the mid-nineties, which has affected the possibility of deducting interest on the mortgage from the taxable income. To begin with, I would like to thank the Committee on Monetary Affairs, where the debate on the draft was very constructive, and the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, who unanimously gave their support to this draft. So thank you in advance to all the political groups. In the nineties, the continuation of the advantage created by the then very high borrowing rate environment in the current situation is simply no longer an intelligent and effective cost of taxpayers' money. It must be said that this will also not help to achieve the objective that was ever involved in the introduction of this advantage. The aim was to encourage borrowing, even so that people could acquire housing, real estate. Moreover, at the time of the introduction of this advantage, in the nineties, the credit market was still undeveloped, so far it has evolved, the interest rates on the loan were over 10%, 12% to 13%. To date, as has been said, the loan market works first, secondly, the interest rate on the average mortgage loan was 2.17% in March this year, according to Eesti Pank. This difference is very significant. Of course, it can also be said that, at the time the advantage was introduced, the incomes were much lower, and the costs of servicing loans also accounted for a much larger share of the incomes than they are now. If, for example, we look at the average housing loan balance as a ratio to the average wage, I do not have real data from the nineties, but for example, in 2005 it was 4.2%, and last year it had fallen to nearly 2.5%, or 2.6%. So in short: At present, the incentive to promote housing loans and the purchase of new housing is simply not met in this form. Young families who could be targeted and who still need such support or support for borrowing in general will certainly be significantly better able to obtain housing loans, such as the KredEx loan measure, which is more targeted and also more effective. I would like to emphasise immediately that this amendment will not result in a change in the overall ceiling of EUR 1200 on the possibility of deduction from income tax. Thus, people will have the opportunity to deduct more costs of training, for example, or even donations. The effect of the change. First of all, those and only those Estonian people who have a large enough income to be able to borrow to acquire housing, and also a large enough income to pay the interest on this loan, will benefit from the mortgage interest tax credit. We've been looking at the data. They confirm that taxable income is often not high enough for people with lower incomes, so that they do not have the possibility to deduct interest on a mortgage from the taxable income. A rather comprehensive overview is attached to the explanatory memorandum. I repeat, for example, last year, i.e. 2020, declared the lowest income in the decile, the first decile, the interest rate on the mortgage of 3183 people, the number 444446 in the most prosperous decile. It is also important that, for the first decile, the lowest income-generating decile, 0.24% of the interest on the declared mortgage loan was actually available, while for the highest income, for the tenth decile 25% of the interest could be deducted from the interest on the declared mortgage loan. It characterizes the advantage and describes that it is an advantage for the most wealthy people in Estonia. The maximum impact of the termination of the tax advantage on the current beneficiary can be up to EUR 60 per year. In the last four years, it has actually been EUR 45.48 per year, i.e. EUR 3 75 cents up to EUR 4 per month. I would now like to remind you once again that the original purpose of creating this advantage was to help people take out loans. When we are talking about an advantage of EUR 4 per month, it is understandable that this advantage, which is mainly applied to higher income deals, does not fulfil this objective. The impact of the change on the state budget is up to EUR 6 million in 2023 and 2024 and up to EUR 6 million in 2025. Finally, thank you once again for your consensual support in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and I would also ask the House to support the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U102	Thank you very much, Minister. You have questions. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U103	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! These criteria, which you have spoken about, and the reasons are perfectly understandable. The interest has changed, the effect has decreased. However, I personally think that in Estonia, where there is a country of owners, this measure makes sense. Those banks that mainly deliver (although banks already based on Estonian capital have started to issue more housing loans and their interest rates are slightly higher), the Scandinavian banks operating in Estonia, are here for some reason several times higher than in their home country. Why don't you tell us why in Finland and Sweden the interest rates on housing loans are much lower than those offered by the same banks in Estonia? Is their money here any more expensive, or what's the problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U104	Thank you. You want to drag me on a slippery road so I can comment on the decisions and policies of the banks. I think that this is certainly a question and, if it is of interest, the Committee on Monetary Affairs can certainly continue to address this issue with the help of either the banking union or the representatives of the banks.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U105	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U106	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good minister! You have said here how this measure is not targeted, effective and does not produce any results. On the other hand, it doesn't cost much. It is customary for people, and they have taken it into account, so why lose it because neither will it harm them. But the savings money, 6 or 7 million, what have you counted on, where does it go? Is this going to take another measure to help young families get their own home? Or what do you offer to replace young families in order to get a home that is better targeted or better functioning?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U107	Thank you for that question. As I said in the introduction, the KredEx measure, which is indeed aimed at young families and which is a loan guarantee measure, in order to make it easier for young families to borrow, especially for this most important target group, is also best targeted. So the KredEx measure is what, in its effect, is much bigger precisely for those who might otherwise have a problem taking out a mortgage. This definitely has to go on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U108	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U109	Good manager! Dear Minister, As you mentioned in your report, there is no reduction in the number of deductions from taxable income. I must admit that I do not understand why you are restricting the possibilities for people to deduct certain costs from their income. It is clear that in Estonia most homes are either bought on a loan or rented. We're taking one chance now. Yes, this amount is not the highest that can be obtained, but we forget that in most cases, the home loan is still taken on by the family, so that both parties can benefit from this EUR 300 tax exemption. Why are you canceling this opportunity?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U110	Thank you. First of all, good Aivar Kokk, thank you for supporting this draft in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. In the case of any advantage, I think, it is always necessary to ask what the purpose of this advantage is. The purpose of this benefit, as I said, was initially to make housing loans more accessible, to support people in taking housing loans. As has been said, if the effect of this advantage is now EUR 48 per year, i.e. EUR 4 per month, it simply does not help to achieve this objective. Indeed, therefore, various policy analyses have led to the fact that, for example, the guarantee provided through KredEx will help this target group to be hit much better than a very small tax relief that does not have a real impact on those who might need this support.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U111	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U112	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! Kalle Muuli has written about the Reform Party in the third part of his trilogy "State of Citizens." Of course, it is a pleasure that the Fatherland partner was the Reform Party at the time, or well, what had hatched out of the Fatherland. We also have Heiki Kranich who remembers these times. It was a good and strong message to the citizens of the country. Today, I see people slipping into that tenant country and all these things so that people are no longer masters in their own home. I know, in 2014, actually this paradigm shift took place. But do you also have any convincing reason why you no longer want the owners to be, say, central in order for the citizens of this country to keep it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U113	Thank you. We do.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U114	All right, that's the answer? Got it. Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U115	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I look at this draft as a whole and I also noted in the explanatory memorandum that you stress on several occasions that this is a costly tax credit. At the same time, your speech is rhetorical at two extremes. On the one hand, you say that a costly tax credit, and on the other, you say that, oh, but it's such a small amount everyone gets, it's not like the other, which is still kept, inefficient, etc. I don't think it's going to go very well after all. Mr. Ligi, please don't interrupt, don't hang around! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I have a question. I don't think it's up to us to assess with you whether up to 60 euros a year is a large or a small amount. I think that for a person who lives on a minimum wage and there are a lot of them, by the way, 60 euros is a very large sum. This is about our political priorities. If we want to direct people to homeowners, we should make maximum efforts to take these steps forward. So here's my question to you. How do you relate, on the one hand, to a more costly tax credit and, on the other hand, to this very small number, [the amount] that people get?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U116	Good questioner, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U117	Thank you. First of all, a person who receives a minimum wage cannot benefit from a 60-euro tax credit. It can only be so high for those whose loans are so large and whose revenues are so high that they can deduct so much at all. As I said in the introduction, this same explanatory statement included an overview of the proportion of the various benefits in this tax credit gives a pretty good picture. So the recipient of the minimum wage would rather be completely deprived of this tax advantage. As regards the fact that the budgetary impact of the tax credit as a whole amounts to EUR 6 million, this is not the question of whether this 6 million is low or high. If we want to encourage borrowing for a specific target group, will this measure best contribute to this? As a drafter, I say that if there is a desire to make lending to young families more favourable, EUR 4 per month, as a later tax credit, is unlikely to contribute to this. Therefore, the assessment is indeed that it no longer meets the objective of the nineties when the interest rate was completely different and the entire credit market was actually quite different.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U118	Tarmo Kruusimäe, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U119	Thank you, good Chairman! I have a procedural question. Is it possible for the Commission's waitress to make a statement first, because she is so vocally anxious to make a statement, which actually prevents the Minister from listening to the answers? Is it possible to change?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U120	Thank you. No, at the moment, the commission has set out, as is our practice: the Minister of Finance and then a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, a member of the commission. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U121	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, My question is two-part. I've seen who you've been asking for an opinion from. There were three organisations, but there were no real representatives of homeowners, the Estonian Owners' Confederation. Why such a choice? But the second question or the other part of the question relates to your claim that the richer people will not benefit from this tax credit. I understand you want to bridge the social divide. If you lose that advantage, it cuts from below, not from above, not from the richer ones. So we're just making it harder for the middle class to get a home. Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U122	Thank you. No. You have a little misconception about its influence. As I have explained quite a number of times, those in the lowest income deals are currently the least likely to benefit from this tax credit. Yet again: the question is who we want to encourage borrowing and how best to do it if we want to do it. If we want to make it easier for young families to borrow, then the KredEx measure will certainly be more effective than the four-euro tax credit per month. So everything starts with what this target group is and how to hit this target group most effectively. According to this, you will also need to design the corresponding measures-benefits.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U123	Now Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! I didn't want to drag you anywhere, on a slippery path or on a narrow path. But just the first moment I have found was at the beginning of last year when it is referred to that if the average interest rate on housing loans in Estonia was 2.6, then in Finland at the same time 0.8, in Sweden 1.52, etc. I'll think about the background. You say it's so small. Did you consider lifting it? In the past, much more than EUR 300 could be exempted from income tax. Did you consider lifting it again? If it's small, let's make it bigger. The question is that if we look at what is happening on the real estate market, the real estate will clearly become more expensive, at least in Tallinn. Eesti Pank, if I remember correctly, has also discussed with the retail banks in order to cool this market a little bit, also to change certain conditions. The question is in your comment in line with the changes that take place on the real estate market and the proposals made by Eesti Pank.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U125	Thank you. We are talking about a specific target group that we are trying to capture by this measure, not so much about encouraging or inciting borrowing, but, above all, about young families. That's one. Secondly, no, we did not discuss the need to move this tax credit back up. In fact, together, the Fatherland and Reform Party, in 2016 and 2017 we brought this border down together in government. This was part of this recital also in that case that it was not the most effective advantage which should be maintained in this form.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U126	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U127	Thank you. I come back to my first question, 'If one measure is taken that you do not think is well targeted or that you claim to be well targeted, what will be replaced?' You told us about the KredEx measure. The KredEx measure is also an old measure; the KredEx measure has been used for years. It is not disputed that it is an effective measure, in fact it should be extended. But it's not something that replaces it. What, then, is this thing that replaces or is better or what comes up and helps young families to get their own home? That, I understand, actually, there isn't, there's nothing to replace, this money is just being taken away from people, it's going to improve the position.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U128	Replaces still and, as has been said, significantly more effectively than the current measure. Among other things, because often those young families who take out loans are not yet included in those higher income deals and, therefore, are still benefiting from a lower-than-average benefit or advantage than the benefit currently granted in 1996. I think that the KredEx measure for young families works well, and that is a much more accurate and sensible way to target the target population. This is what replaces the inefficient use of tax money for a benefit, of which very few will benefit.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U129	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U130	Good manager! Dear Minister, I do not know if you want to mislead us or if you accidentally said so, but it is not EUR 48 for an income tax exemption of EUR 300; it is still EUR 60. I think it should be made very clear that this benefit is intended for families in the case of the home in which they are registered. This is valid since 2005. If both spouses, 50% and 50% have taken out the loan together, the total amount of income tax exemption is EUR 600 or EUR 120. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U131	Thank you. I didn't mean to mislead anyone. In my introductory speech, I said that the maximum possible tax credit would be EUR 60 per year. In the last four years, it has been in real terms in the range of €45.48, which are already known data and facts. In this sense, yes, you understand correctly that if there is such a large loan, that the amount of interest payable is so high that it is possible to use this maximum rate together, I do not have the data at the moment how many such loans there are, but it is really a very large loan in such a case and there is a loan in two, both of which have been written in, it is a bonus of a maximum of 60 plus 60.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U132	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U133	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! I guess I'm gonna have to rely on this conversation that was with one of the leading reform parties in 2014. He also suggested that it should be abolished and said that the argument is this: but everyone already has a home bought out. When I said that we were young, the answer was that young people inherited their parents'. That's my question. 7 million from hobbies, now 7 million from young families. What is even more important than young people who need this kind of investment, in a situation where economic indicators indicate that we are making such incomprehensible cuts at the expense of young people? What's more important? Balance?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U134	Thank you. Firstly, as I emphasised, the EUR 1200 cap on deduction remains unchanged. This means that there is a possibility of more deduction for training, for example, but it is also possible that someone would like to make more deductions for donations. This limit does not change, and it is a free choice for a person whether he wants to invest more in himself through training and then deduct it later. In the case of young families, on which we have previously exchanged questions and answers with several of your colleagues here, the KredEx measure is what provides them with support in a much more immediate, direct and meaningful way, unlike an inefficient tax advantage.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U135	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U136	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I guess we have some ideologically different ideas about one thing or another, and there's nothing weird about that. Things that have mainly been related to homeowners, the land tax exemption that we were carrying out at one point, I remember the heated debate we had with each other when we discussed the tax exemption for the land under our home. Not to mention possible property taxes that are virtually non-existent in Estonia. I'm sure you'll see that we could still create property taxes, always bringing out the mysterious OSCE or whoever supports it there. Here we have a difference. But my question is rather based on what Mr Hepner asked you and did not answer to. This relates to the central union of homeowners, which is, if I am not mistaken (I do not want to be unfair to others) the highest number of members of the NGO in Estonia at all. I think that's exactly who you might be asking. What led to the fact that you didn't ask where you could ask?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U137	Thank you. Well, the Home Owners' Confederation certainly has a lot of representatives in the Chamber as well. If I am not mistaken, you too have been actively involved in this movement for years. The opportunity to have a say in this very important Union also arises during the parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U138	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U139	Good manager! Dear Minister, I'm reading the effects here. Some things I agree with, the fact that there is no impact on the living and natural environment, on national security and external relations, on the organisation of a public authority. But my question is that there should be an impact on regional development here. That fifth, that's a lot of people. Has the word that has accidentally come to the point that there is no impact on regional development? These subjects live somewhere regionally, and this component is definitely there. Do you have any information on how it is distributed in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U140	Thank you. Good question. I'm sure that data can be sent. It is just once again that in this key, whom and how we want to encourage borrowing, the effect of ending this specific tax credit really does not work out in a separate way. How this current advantage has spread across regions, we can identify it, add it later and send it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U141	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U142	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister of Finance! You have well pointed out on several occasions that KredEx allows young people to obtain loans. This draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic, in particular by the Minister of Finance. I really do have a sincere question and an interest in it. Did you have an analysis in advance of how many of these young families who have turned to KredEx for a loan have actually received it? Before the bill came to the hall, I asked several people and there were quite a few who said that under these conditions they would not qualify. Did you have such an analysis of how many converts, for example, over a period of time and how many have actually received?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U143	Thank you. If it's okay, we'll send you a more detailed overview later. I can now say that the growth in the last two years has been 6%. It is also possible that, for a long time, this measure was not found or could not be used in this sense, and now it is precisely the target group that has become more active. But we'll send more details later.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U144	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U145	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I will still pick up where we left off after the first question. If we help 10,000 or 2 000 out of the 100,000 and more people who have benefited from this loan measure, then we have, in any case, met our goal. Now it could be your rejoinder to me that what happens to the other tens of thousands could not help them, they are rich enough, although I still have a question about this wealth, they are hardly rich enough sometimes. What, then, will be replaced by the 10,000 or 20000, who could clearly be helped by this measure?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U146	Thank you. I've answered it quite a few times. First of all, I suggest you read this explanatory memorandum table, which is very difficult to read again here. This is a table that describes the inter-revenue impact or the proportion of people in which income is actually receiving or receiving support. I suggest you look at it. It is clear from this that those with lower incomes will receive very little of this tax credit. This is a nice addition, and I'm not going to repeat it again for the fourth or third time. The target group that we probably want to support in borrowing or who may be difficult to borrow is, above all, young families. For them, the KredEx loan measure does indeed fulfil this objective much more effectively than the very small and later tax relief with very little effect.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U147	Dear Minister, We will go on with the questions that have been asked to you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U148	Good manager! Good minister! My question is where else to save. What other initiatives do you have in your briefcase?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U149	Thank you. All the suggestions you have on this, come up with. We'd love to hear them. I understand that in the previous government, a person sitting behind you now on a diagonal scale planned them to the size of 258 million next year. So, as I have said repeatedly in public, I am happy to accept these proposals if you actually present them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U150	Minister, thank you. No further questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U151	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U152	Thank you. Good fellows, let's move on with one letter. The letter to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu comes and the next letter has arrived. This is a statement on the extension of the sitting. The content of the statement is that the Group of the Estonian Reform Party proposes to extend today's session until the completion of the first reading of the draft law amending the Income Tax Act 402, but no longer than 14 p.m. Let us begin the preparation of this vote. Can we go to the vote? Thank you. It's good to see you all here. I am voting on the proposal of the Estonian Reform Party Group to extend today's plenary session until the end of the first reading of the draft law amending the Income Tax Act, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U153	With the result of 42 votes against 11 and 1 abstention, the proposal was supported. Jürgen Ligi, member of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu speech chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U154	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The minister told the truth, but not the whole truth. That is why I will make some additions, or also some emphasis. First of all, especially after these questions that where this money goes, there is reason to stress that this money is not in the budget. We have a deep budget gap and this is a matter such as fiscal consolidation, in this case in the form of a reduction in expenditure. Such measures are undoubtedly needed more and for many more years, because the budget deficit is very severe. Having worked on this area for a long time, I have also spoken in the Commission, but I would emphasise that if it goes to fiscal consolidation, which has been a problem in many countries for over ten years, the experts, including the OECD and the European Commission, are essentially the first recommendation to abolish tax exemptions, because they are the most costly measures for efficiency. That's what we're doing here. Whether this 6 million is expensive or cheap can be argued, but the fact is that it is rather difficult to predict. As soon as interest rates start to rise in inflation, for example, the situation is quite different, and the amount of credit is constantly increasing, so that it is an automatic budget-pressurising money that can multiply in a short period of time. The point of this recommendation is, yes, that this policy is inefficient, but it is also socially wrong. If you look at the distribution of tax exemptions, the advantage is still acquired by the most wealthy deciles. I think those numbers are in the explanatory memorandum. I'll see if I wrote some down. Unfortunately, I don't have it on paper, but basically, you can say that the lion's share of such benefits is acquired by a wealthier fifth. So there is no reason to say that there is a great deal of improvement in access to housing or property. In fact, it's backwards, this method clearly has a psychological effect on accepting a higher price. Banks with solvency have long ceased to take this into account, like income, this refund, but psychologically, such a tax relief has an increasing effect on the price. It is absolutely right, as the Minister said here in general, that we have a functioning market. We have lost interest on loans quickly, six times since the introduction of this method, and thus marginalised, but the market situation could, of course, change and then have a very severe budgetary impact. Its share of income has become rather marginal. EUR 48 per year on average for those upper decills who actually acquire these loans and this advantage are not eligible. Psychologically, yes, it can even be thoughtfully said that it will ultimately become more expensive for a house buyer. The first decile.. here are a couple of numbers, however, with the number of loans being 3163. It is clear that the first profit scale itself would not be able to make this expenditure, which is probably the contribution of parents. He doesn't show any efficiency at all, but the effectiveness is that the upper decile has taken 44446 loans last year.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U155	Good waitress, I apologize to you! A procedural question, Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U156	Manager! I really have a question for you: I understand that some déjà-vu is happening now, the Commission's rapporteur has come and started to read again before the main text of the draft law. Déjà-vu is in the sense that the Minister of Finance just came and said all that. Perhaps you will tell the Commission's rapporteur an observation or a comment. I would rather know what was interesting in the Commission, what was asked and what was answered. This is the content of the Commission's report. Right now, he's basically talking about exactly what we heard five or ten minutes ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U157	The Commission's rapporteur has time to give an overview and the Commission's rapporteur has not passed its time. Please, Mr. Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U158	I agree with that remark, by the way. I missed hearing the Minister mention these facts, but I really don't approve of this repetition. I'm sorry. This must have slipped my ears, but these are the facts taken directly from the Commission's protocol, which I think would require a repetition or a review before you. Okay. But the even greater difference is what the Minister certainly did not say that the loan amounts differ. Still, the top deciles are the ones who get the money. The number of loans doesn't show anything in itself. Upper decibels have bigger loans. But now of what was not even said to the end by the Minister for Finance: this measure has been considered ineffective by virtually all governments. When this advantage was introduced in 1996 without a cap, for a well-wide circle of citizens, that is, for close relatives, already since 2002, i.e. during the reign of our largest critics, it was set at a ceiling of 6394 euros. It was found to be unfair, we set the limit, we reduce this social inefficiencies. The government was Laar's, by the way, I remember. 2002 was that, that's what I said. 2005 was owned by Res Publica, and the measure was again restricted, restricted to housing purchased only by the Government. The ceiling was halved, EUR 3196. So we have had, as the Minister nicely said, such an over-party consensus on this method. No other government has turned back these reductions. This amount was further reduced in 2012. After all, the budget was very clear about the recession. The reduction was to EUR 1920 and 1200 from 2016. We can say that, once again, there was a great political consensus between us. It was set as a general ceiling. But as early as 2017, at the hands of one of my recent critics, who was then the Minister of Finance, the name I do not remember, the benefit was two-parted and the housing benefit was limited to 300 euros. So, once again, I like this kind of super-conscious consensus. When we discussed this on 7 June, no critical questions were received. Everyone realized the argument was very good. By the way, there was also an excellent presentation by the previous waitress, i.e. the Minister of Finance. The argument was very good and the political consensus was complete. No one asked evil questions or attacked anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U159	Minister, thank you. There are also questions for you, but first, as has already become a good practice in this Chamber, a procedural question. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U160	Thank you. I didn't quite understand. 2005 came in fact the government of the Reform Party and the Centre Party. I did not understand whether the rapporteur referred to the 2005 budget, but in 2005 the new Ansip government came. I don't remember how it was. Secondly, I wanted to ask that the rapporteur did not just talk about this bill at first, but spoke about the budget gap. Since the President of the honourable Riigikogu has previously held the Prime Minister's office, I wanted to ask if you know exactly what budget hole we are talking about. How big is it? Where is it? Yesterday, this was also discussed at length in the mistrust of Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. Unfortunately, you weren't there because you were on a foreign visit, so we never knew if you would have trusted or mistrusted the Prime Minister. What kind of August are we talking about yesterday and today?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U161	Thank you, good questioner. We don't have the form of a procedural question so I can come into this debate. But I certainly have a very specific opinion on the issues you raised. Heiki Hepner, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U162	Yeah, a procedural question. In fact, Jürgen Ligi said that he would at one point start to talk about what was going on in the Commission and what the discussions were and to answer how some arguments reached the table. But I felt like I didn't do it at all. Is it still the case that a representative of the Commission comes and says what he just wants, what he remembers maybe ten or twenty years ago, which may have been the case, but may not have been the case, but he does not talk at all about what happened in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U163	Thank you. I think that the representative of the Commission is still talking about what happened in the Commission, but it is still interesting to do sideways, such interesting parallels in recent history, why not. Indrek Saar, please ask your question! Sorry, Indrek Saar, I'm so sorry! Heiki Hepner, procedural question. A microphone for Heiki Hepner, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U164	Thank you. It still seemed to me that the whole report consisted of these diversions and jumps, not much of what was happening in the Commission. It was simply my procedural question. Is such an approach really in line with the law on home and working procedures?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U165	Thank you. I believe that we will all try to do better with the next steps. So I think we understand that criticism you said. Indrek Saar, now please ask your first question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U166	Thank you. Dear waitress, Did the Commission mention how seriously it should be to consider that the state has made some kind of promise to the people they have taken into account, perhaps there is a 'justified expectation' that the state will help these people to some extent to repay the loan? You could say that. Question two. Although those who benefit from it in the first decilles are considerably less than those with the most wealthy, with the highest incomes, these people still exist and the burden of repaying loans increases to some extent. Are there any compensatory measures available for them, or can they be foreseen? Automaticly, KredEx touches those who are going to build or buy something new, but does not concern those who are already paying loans.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U167	The answer is yes, it was mentioned, that 'right' expectation. The assessment is that it has not been violated. If we still recall that it is the fourth euro per month, then that cannot be the case where the state should take a separate measure to compensate. The lower decile loans are 3000, it is obvious that the lower decile is not eligible at all. They have not taken the loan themselves, it is probably guaranteed by their neighbouring guarantees. They don't really have any revenue to serve a loan. But I think there was another part of the question. Did I answer the whole question? Pretty much. The previous procedural questioners did not dare ask me, they asked the Head of the Riigikogu, they bullied him. In fact, the hand to the heart, all that I said, was about the Commission, and there is also the Commission's protocol, including these setbacks. It was my demand that the Ministry of Finance give a complete overview of the reduction and reduction of this tax credit over time. This history is, I think, extremely important, including the person who asked (the name does not remember) about Andrus Ansip's government (the name comes to mind well because he is not presently in the Chamber). No, it was the Juhan Parts' government that made the decision and it entered into force, 2005 is the year of entry into force, but it was also half the time that Juhan Parts was in office. Here we have never had any political disagreements, it was Isamaa and Res Publica who started delimiting this advantage in the office of Minister of Finance... No, it wasn't necessarily the Minister of Finance, but it was the Prime Minister. Later, the two of us have done these things together, we haven't really had any disagreement. I am very surprised that you are critical of this today. It's so marginal. By the way, I also talked about this in the Commission, I am not improvising here on my own behalf, but in the Commission I kept this argument up, that the left-wing parties should not be criticized for this measure because of precisely the social distribution to which it is going, that 48 euros a year, or four euros: it is still going to the top deciles, there is nothing to be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U168	Thank you. I very much ask that the member of the Riigikogu, Sven Sester, comes to my aid. Please help me explain how I can give you this third question on the basis of our rules of procedure and home.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U169	With willpower! Big man, I don't think three is too much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U170	Thank you. I would have done it right away, but I couldn't figure it out myself. Well, good waitress, dear Jürgen Ligi, no further questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U171	Thank you. I am very grateful for the support.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U172	Yes! Let's move on from here. We still need to deal with this item. I open negotiations and ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Isamaa Group, Aivar Koka. Please! Now you can have five, six, seven, eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U173	Let's see. I don't know. Yeah, I understand everyone wants to go home and there's no point in talking too long, but I'd just like to clarify a few things. Another minor mistake was made on the Commission's side of the waitress. It's not four euros a month. The EUR 300 tax exemption of 20% is EUR 60 and EUR 60 divided by 12 is EUR 5 when it comes to numbers in this way. But in fact, you should look the other way: families still have a total of EUR 600 free of income tax, and that is a pretty large amount. Only members of the Riigikogu feel that this is a very small number. It is a very large number for 75% of Estonian residents. It's a bigger number than the average pension. Question two. The representative of the Commission made another mistake: this money is not being taken away from anywhere. People are still left with this tax credit, there are no savings. But somehow today's government is against family policy, our people are being deprived of the opportunity to get a home. If anyone's talking about KredEx here, I have a feeling that the people who are talking don't know how young people have taken a loan from a bank. I think most people have borrowed for 30 years. Now all of a sudden, there's a feeling that, well, what's this pussy here and there? I have three daughters, everyone has a home, and everyone has loans. They're not gonna ask for that interest back, either this or the other, but everyone's got their home on a loan. There's no way there's any other way to get it. That is why it has raised a very serious question as to whether today's coalition is anti-family and, in particular, hostile to young families. I don't want to believe that. When I listened to these presentations today, I had a question. If the amount of income tax refund on mortgage interest is so low, are the planned land tax increases and extraordinary pension increases pointlessly low? In view of the fact that this is a bill that is harmful to families, the Group of the Fatherland is asking for the draft law amending the Income Tax Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U174	I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Lauri Läänemets. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U175	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Certainly with this bill there is some injustice in the logic of this system, I mean, there is some injustice in talking about the current system, yes. But just as has already been said in this hall, this is an important opportunity for a very large number of Estonian families, which they took into account when they acquired a home and took on their responsibilities. The state can't back out of these situations so suddenly. I liked it, and I must commend Aivar Kokka, who had a very good point. In this Chamber, we sometimes really talk about EUR 25 and EUR 50, and then the coalition declares that it is the biggest victory for pensioners and everyone else. That was a really good comparison. And when we talk about 300 or 600 euros to one Estonian family, it is no longer money and it does not matter to them. We should still look at how the people of Estonia live and what these incomes are. Really, not everyone lives as well as we do in this Parliament. The principle of legitimate expectations is, in fact, very important and, in my opinion, it should still be based on it and respected. We all remember, of course, that the Reform Party, especially the Reform Party, has experience that, where it needs to be, it beats this drum, but when we talk about most of Estonia again, it will be forgotten to make some kind of budget tricks and tricks. I recall the early abolition of student loans, which concerned students who had taken a student loan and who had had a child. The country had promised to take care of them. The state retreated from it exactly the same way. It was very sad. I remember that at the time, I was a student representative, and we were approached by a lot of students who really got into a very difficult situation. The exact same analogy could be here. It certainly does not affect all Estonian families and does not have a disastrous effect on them all, but I think there are certainly very many people whose family's livelihood may be affected and can also be significantly affected. It is also sad that this is, in principle, a last home acquisition measure or a home measure, so to speak, which is now being terminated by the State. I recall a programme of rental homes once protected by the Social Democrats and actually carried out with our help or under our leadership. The previous government coalition also decided to end it, although more and more we are hearing this talk all over Estonia, that the market really does not work. I think even today's ministers are saying that the market is not working and entrepreneurs are not building these buildings, apartments, rental homes or even apartments for sale in rural areas, where there is a shortage of housing in many places. For example, if in the past several generations lived in a single apartment in a rural area, now perhaps a pensioner lives there. But where do these young people fit? Of course, the population is falling, but just doesn't live together for several generations, and that still means there is a shortage of living opportunities. Of course, this means a forced situation for many young people who have to leave because renting a three - room apartment or a four - room apartment, when you start a life of your own, is too much for everyone, most of them are too much for you, that is not possible. If there are no two-room apartments or single-room apartments in rural areas, then in the end the only solution is Tallinn, it is. Now we are also taking this second lifeline from Estonian families. So what's politics? What is politics or what is the message to the people of Estonia? Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U176	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U177	So what's the policy of moving everyone to Tallinn? Seems like something like that right now. Of course, there are better salaries here, and here perhaps it is easier to say that people can and do not need this measure. If we really wanted, as has been pointed out, to have a fair system, it would be fair, for example, to reform the system, not to abolish it, to remake it in such a way that less wealthy families would win, in fact, in reality, and then the wealthier people would lose the privilege of this system. That would be fair, that would actually be expected of the government coalition. I think that people expect this from Parliament and the government too. Or to make a transition here when this system is terminated, at least not for those who have already made their commitments, but for all those who could be next so that they know that we will no longer deal with this compensation in the future. I'm really sorry about all this. Therefore, the Social Democrats have already sent an electronic proposal to reject this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U178	Thank you very much. No more requests for speech... Oh, no, it is. Statement by a representative of the Reform Party Group. Please, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U179	Yes, more or less everything has been said, but inspired by the previous speech: the beginning was quite good, isn't it, is actually a bad system and it is unfair, but it is as if losing it is also unfair. That's not the way things are supposed to work, so we're gonna talk about one thing and then we're gonna talk about another. The second thing, of course, is that I think the speaker overlooked the fact that when borrowing, the poor cannot, how can I say, make a discount, because they do not receive a loan. That is what other measures are for giving benefits to young families, but nevertheless, a loan is not a non-refundable aid and, unfortunately, buying a home for the poor cannot be the point of state policy. This cannot be done: there are different support systems for the poor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U180	Thank you. Any more speeches? Please, this is an opportunity, kindly! No, it's not. I'm closing the negotiations. Here's the deal. The Isamaa Group and the Social Democratic Party Group have made use of the possibility under the Home and Rules of Procedure Act in accordance with § 98 (6), the content and meaning of which is that, if the Group wishes, it can propose rejection during the negotiations. These proposals have been made during the negotiations, and we must start voting on these two proposals. In order to be able to vote, it must be prepared. Good fellows! I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the Group of the Isamaa to reject the draft 402 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-17_U181	With the result of 20 votes to 42, the proposal has not been supported by any abstentions. Good fellows! The commission has proposed that the first reading be closed. I will set the deadline of 5 July at 4 p.m. for the submission of amendments. The first reading is closed and the third item is closed. Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! I wish you strength in your work for the people of Estonia and Estonia and at international level. Today's session is closed and the V session is also closed. Thank you.
