ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We will begin the Tuesday session of the 17th working week of the V plenary session. There is now an opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U2	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, In recent months and in recent weeks, we have repeatedly heard the Minister of Defence Kalle Laanet here in the Riigikogu and talked about Estonia's security and defence issues. Regrettably, these discussions have all been very negative. We've had to ask questions about an incomprehensible decision to wear a military uniform. We have talked a great deal about cuts, unreasonable cuts, which have damaged the security and defence capabilities of the Estonian state. We have heard answers from the Minister of Defence that have subsequently proved to be wrong. The Minister of Defence has repeatedly wrestled before the Riigikogu. It is clear that Minister Kalle Laane of Defence does not understand his role as Minister of Defence in guaranteeing the security of Estonia and does not recognise the difficult geopolitical situation of the Republic of Estonia. It seems to a large extent that this is primarily the initiative and initiative of the Minister of Defence and the Reform Party, because representatives of the coalition partner, several ministers, also the Minister of Culture, have said that it is not in Estonia's interest to liquidate the Defence Forces orchestra in this way. The Head of the Central Party's government delegation has called on the Minister for Defence to reconsider the proposed cuts. So it seems that this initiative has come first and foremost from Kalle Laanet. In this context, I hand over the motion of distrust initiated by 31 members of the Riigikogu to Defence Minister Kalle Laanet.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U3	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much. According to the decision of the government coalition, the problem committee on the population crisis has been eliminated from today. In this context, I will hand over the final report on our work to the Riigikogu Board on 27 pages, from which everyone can read what we have done in this short time period, from 30 May 2019, when 54 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the creation of this committee, 22 were against and there were no abstentions. Siret Kotka, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Heljo Pikhof, Signe Riisalo, Jaak Valge and myself have been on this committee. In order not to go further, I would say that the situation with the birth rate is not positive, 10 to 11 percent below the minimum level, but in the case of migration, the picture is completely insane. Here we bring out a total of 22 proposals that could be used in the future. I'm going to read the last sentence here. For its part, the Commission, the 'killed Commission', hopes that population issues will not lose social and political attention, but that other public authorities, universities and private initiatives will fill the gap, as is often the case, and that the proposals set out in this report will not only be left to collect dust. Thank you and good luck to everyone!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U5	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U6	Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I inform you that we have initiated a draft law amending the Youth Work Act. Its content is the government's faculty of speech and its prevention in the future, and the preservation of state funding for activities of interest and education of interest at an agreed level. In 2015, when Taavi Rõivas formed his second government, the three parties agreed on a coalition agreement that the state budget would provide EUR 15 million from 2018 to ensure that as many children as possible who have not made it to the activities of interest. This measure was very effective. The increase of 10% in funding from the state in this area increased the number of children who gained interest by 30%. This is a fully justified measure. People working in this area, children's and youth organisations, parents' organisations, local authorities and very many people in society have protested against this measure. In order for the government not to be able to do such word-breaking tricks in the future, our proposal is to include an obligation in the Youth Work Act that, at least at last year's level, the state should finance a measure of interest and education. Thank you for your attention. The draft has been submitted electronically.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U7	No more wishes. Two drafts have been delivered, including one report. We will, of course, decide on further processing of the draft law in the Bureau in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Before we go to the presence check, I have a few messages. Specifically, after today's sitting, the next set-up meetings of the support groups will be here. First of all, the aviation support group, the convener Henn Põlluaas. Secondly, the self-steering vehicle support group, the callers Mart Võrguship and Timo Suslov. Thirdly, a support group for the manufacturing industry, convened by Timo Suslov. Of course, anyone who wishes to join them, please contact the callers. Another very important message is that today, after the end of the plenary session, the bureau of the Interparliamentary Union, i.e. the Estonian Group, will be elected in this Chamber. A sincere request that all members of the Riigikogu participate in this election. Okay. Now we're conducting a presence check. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U8	92 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U9	Ladies and gentlemen, Before we come to today's agenda, let's move back to yesterday. In fact, yesterday's session ended at midnight and we missed the final round of negotiations. Eduard Odinets had the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U10	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Minister of Education and Science! I thought, "What am I talking about here at midnight?" But the heart demands, because the subject is important. When I listened to yesterday's speeches and the questions that came to the Minister, I still thought it right to speak on this issue too, so that there would not be only one opinion left in this Chamber. Who wasn't here last night as a reminder that we discussed what would happen to education in Estonian and what would happen to a single school. There was a lot of talk last night on the subject of "ethnicity" and a question was raised about who is the right Estonian and who can be considered Estonian. I can tell you in secret that I am an Estonian. Whoever hasn't seen the Estonian yet, look this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U11	Mr. Odines, I'll cut you off for a second. Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest you listen to what they say about the chair. If there's talk between you and me, they can be spoken outside the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U12	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm Estonian, I'll tell those who haven't heard yet. But one fact is special for me, for an Estonian: my mother tongue is not Estonian, my mother tongue is Russian. I will say more: the Soviet authorities issued me a passport, where they wrote 'Ukrainian' instead. But today I am telling you that I am an Estonian and I am no less Estonian than many other Estonians. Of some Estonians, I am even more Estonian, believe me. This means that the thousands, tens of thousands of people living in Estonia who consider Russian to be their native language can likewise consider themselves Estonians. And no one can deny them that. This is where we come to education, which in my case meant that during the Soviet era I had to acquire education in Russian. I was not able and was not fashionable or acceptable at the time to do so in Estonian. Today, this is quite possible, and all opportunities have been created for our children and young people. They have the constitutional right to go to the school where they want to go or where their parents want to direct them. And no one can deny them to call themselves Estonian and to study in Estonian at a school with an Estonian language, whether we like it or not. I already gave these examples last night, but just in case in today's speech, 17% of Estonian non-Estonians would like their children to study only in Estonian, with 13% of them in Ida-Viru County. 20% of non-Estonians want their children to study Estonian at a school where Russian as a native language is guaranteed, 17% of them are in Ida-Virumaa. In addition, I would like to stress that 81% of Estonians and 79% of non-Estonians want their children to study together in one school under one roof. This means that this trend, which we discussed for a long time last night, that children with Russian native language or other native language come to school with an Estonian language of instruction, is inevitable. And there's more and more. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U13	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U14	To criticize these children, criticize their parents, talk about the fact that by accepting these children in Estonian school we are Russing the Estonian school, I think, is not right. Instead, we must create every opportunity for these children to do well at school with the Estonian language of instruction. These methodologies, the ways in which they can be done, are very numerous in the world. I think that the Estonian school, the school with the Estonian language of instruction, is fully prepared, but it needs support, it needs financial support, it needs support with teachers, it needs support in training teachers. As politicians, it is the task of the government to create these conditions for these children, not to call it Russing the school. Some of the other expressions that sounded last night got to me. For the last 15 years, I have been chairman of the Kohtla-Järve Järve School. This is the only Estonian-language school in Kohtla-Järve. I didn't study there. Like I said, I studied purely Russian at school. But this school was brought to the front and back yesterday, called in all kinds of words, with all kinds of terms. Most of all, it was as if the example of this school was a genocide against the Estonian people. I can't agree with that in any way. The fact that more and more Russian-language children and their parents want these children to study with Estonian-language children is not genocide against the Estonian people. I tell you more: if there weren't Russian children on Kohtla-Järve who were going to school there wouldn't have been a school long ago, because we don't have Estonian children on Kohtla-Järve. Estonians do not want to give birth, Estonians do not want to move to Ida-Virumaa. There are no children and this school would simply die out and there would be no education in Estonian at all in Kohtla-Järve if these Russian parents and Russian children did not come to the school and would not save Estonia in Kohtla-Järve rather than complete the existence of this school. The second question is, as I have already said, whether this school has every chance of making the lives of these children, both Estonian children and Russian children, as comfortable and suitable as possible at that school. What are we doing on Kohtla-Järve? We put these children in separate classes so that at least in primary classes they can learn their native language differently and at different speeds. But what has it brought to our school? We have EUR 70,000 minus in the salary budget because we keep these two classes. This is where the state could come to help, this is where the inquisitors could come to help, in order to keep these children a little more separate at first, then they could learn together so that all of them would become Estonians, so that they would all consider themselves to be the full citizens of the Estonian state, not those who, in their choice of education, carry out genocide on the Estonian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U15	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U16	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good guardians of the Republic, Vardens! I haven't done so well, have I, as the previous speaker? I didn't get that good language training. I think one of the problems was that I did not have a so-called internship. In terms of languages, I'm pretty hard-headed, just like the boys are classic. Well, to be perfectly honest, I guess I was weak. The first Russian word I learned was "fascist." Well, I lived on Lasnamägi. Other words came from there, but they didn't understand. I remember those roofed stars and signs, it was all just a random s. I was the back lantern the whole time I was studying it. Although in the eighth grade, I had an insane interest in anarchists, and then I grabbed some Kropotkin's work, hoping to get information about anarchy. It was in the old writing, in the old script. So I raped it with a glass. After I had been counted, I turned to the Russian teacher, said I couldn't wait, there was some kind of agriculture here talking about when they would get to this anarchy. Then he looked and said that the wrong book you had, it's just his kind of piece of agriculture. But I just learned thanks to internships, perhaps the Soviet police. The first time I went there, I still had that ni-boom and ni-boom. I learned, of course, not the most cultural and polite language, which means that I can talk to people at so-called sauna nights, maybe this is the kind of jargon, but not in such a polite language. That is why I am happy not to give interviews in Russian because I do not feel strong in that language. It's just a line that there's always an important practice about language. But now to this bill. I would remind you that this was probably in 1994, when Mihkel Pärnoja, by order, wrote that there should be no more than six pupils in one class coming from another language, from another language room, and this was already in the kindergarten group, which means that otherwise they will dominate and that the education of other children will be poor. My younger daughter, when she was in kindergarten, told me that they had such a lively young man from another language culture who always jokes and bullies, but things aren't going well. As such an exemplary young parent or as a green person, you had to take some further training, go there with your child, just to prepare for school, because that student was not there. That's when I saw the parents of that kid when we caught them, dressed them. They said that they had a child of great fun, of course, and that it was fun and lively. I said I was also a lively man, and I could see that I had football balls and shirts on. I said that, but look, this moment, actually your son could learn with others and use this [opportunity], he'd rather try to impose himself, which is inherent, so now I should ask you as a parent if you're willing to make up for these expenses. Not at all derogatory, but just purposefully said that your contribution to school was to train my own child to have preparation for school. This young man was reasonable, he taught along with him, perhaps his father received this message as though he spoke Russian, I spoke Estonian. Now if you could hear how they came to help Kohtla-Järve School and Kohtla-Järve shouldn't have a problem, then there is a problem. The problem still is that if a certain number of young people are from another language space, this is what happens and when they start to dominate, there will be an incomprehensible mixed class. If anyone asks if there is a problem, we can see that the reading is such that today many people don't even understand any jokes. This must have been a quote from Juhan Smuul, and, oh, wonder, everyone said: "It's terrible what he meant! " I don't really know what Smuul meant. What are you blooming there, flower? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U17	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U18	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Colleagues! The Minister is still among us, despite the change in date. Thank you so much for that. In fact, we have a much broader and more meaningful topic in the debate than it seems, one could even say that the future may well be fatally shaped by a very resounding word. When we ask each other, "Who are you?"Then one of the first and most important identities is: I'm Estonian, I'm Russian, I'm Finn or whoever someone is. For example, if you ask the North American Indians, they'll tell you if they're a crow or a crayon or a shaiene or a ricket. This ethnic self-definition of man is one of our root definitions. What does it come from? This is because we identify ourselves with some language and culture, the most important co-ordinate points in this culture. In the case of Estonia, this is undoubtedly the most important Estonian language. We can give an example of the eastern people, who live among us very much, about the Russians. Their identity is much more multilayered than ours. Now I'm gonna get blamed again for being a Russophobe, and then I'm a Russophile, and then I'm a Nazi, and then I'm a putinist. This is, of course, all the coordination of political nonsense, once again, but I think I know Russia, the Russian people, the Russian language and culture quite well, also history. It's much more multilayered there. There is a language, there are parallel cultural layers, there is a high culture that Estonia does not have. There is a high-level language that has never been fully developed in Estonia. There's civilization, membership of the great Orthodox civilization with its subcivilization. Once again, I have been insulted: yes, the Russians are civilization! Of course it is. Of course it is! There is the identity of the state, that is what Estonia is very weak. When we look at other nations, great nations, we also see much more of this multilayerity. What is Estonia's identity? It's based on our language. When we discussed the subject of school late last night, a possible Estonian-Russian mixed school, but there may also be the topic of Estonian-Russian-English mixed school, this debate was clearly reflected in the globalist ideology, which is why the Estonian people are going to their own ethnogenesis, I asked the Minister about it, although he did not answer the question Our question in this regard is very simple and very existential: can we manage it? More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U19	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U20	Is our national body strong enough for that? Is our cultural and linguistic identity sufficiently developed, confident and long-term? It is not just a school issue; it is a question of the fundamental principles of our entire nation and of this particular country. Because the school and the next generations coming from there are the ones who either guarantee its duration, who will guarantee its potential, I stress: a possible new ethnogenetic development in this model, that it is the survival of the Estonian people through change, or we cannot bear it, we cannot manage this process and survive in this process as a nation. It is such a fundamental issue to talk only about funding here, about the availability of teachers and the availability of teaching materials is a technical entanglement in something that ultimately does not decide. In the end, it is decided otherwise: the strength of national self-consciousness, the ability of a nation to adapt, but at the same time to be self-adapted. From this point of view, I think that we need to ask not only the Minister for Education and Science but also the Minister for Culture, the Prime Minister and many other ministers about this. Because I have a feeling that our current government is the kind of technical government that can't look deeper. He sees the surface of the well water, and he sees whether the water mirror rises or falls in the well. But he can't see what's at the bottom of that well and how nutritious the springs are at the bottom of that well. But from these sources, it depends on the well never being empty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U21	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U22	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to argue with my colleague, Mart Helme, but I cannot, in fact, because the absolute majority of what he said here is true. This is how you should see this situation, with one small, small exception. A week ago, in this hall, I performed on the same subject as the teaching of Estonian. The hall was practically empty, it was late. I finally said that, I actually quoted my speech that I gave here from this chair in 2002. All the teas that sounded here again, not as long as 19 years ago, are alive and in force. That means nothing's changed in 19 years. There is only one way to argue with Mr Helme: we need these details. We need to deal with the preparation of teachers, the teaching tools. How can it be that 1569 hours of Estonian in Russian school produce practically the same result as 30 years ago? Colleagues, many of you drive, you've been driving for decades. Does that make you auto mechanics? You eat sausage. Vegetarians are here, of course, but most eat sausage. Does that make you butchers? Does the fact that you speak Estonian make you teachers, certified philologists? You know what the problem is, why have we had such a bad situation with Estonian for 30 years? Because everyone in this Chamber thinks they know better than the professionals that need to be done, and the result is only political speculation, which does not end at all with any result. As long as we continue this pointless debate, the situation will not change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U23	Urmas Reinsalu, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U24	Above all, this is about the political will, the lack of its will, and whether there is a compromise that will not allow us to realise this policy, which will guarantee the protection of the Estonian language space, precisely in our education system. During the previous coalition, the level of agreement that we were able to achieve was precisely linked to funding the additional funding for teaching Estonian in kindergartens and general education. I think it was a reasonable course of action for us to do so, because now it has already created a platform for the legal transition as well. A clear goal was also taken in the Riigikogu. We remember that we confirmed principles, ten principles for the protection of the Estonian language. There was one principle that, at the previous level of education, children must have the knowledge of the Estonian language that they can easily integrate themselves into the second level of education, i.e. children who graduated from primary school receive a high school in Estonian and children who have graduated from secondary school and upper secondary school can go to a higher education institution in Estonian. The next step now needs to be taken and this step must be clearly defined: the transition to general education in the Estonian language in the country. Regrettably, both the Estonian language development plan and the educational development plan are highly euphemized documents. These are precisely the documents that, unfortunately, reflect the political compromise on this fundamental issue. When we talk about the legal framework for the transition, we must see that this legal framework must also be furnished with supervision. That is the question that I am looking at Mrs. Minister for Education. There is certainly confidence that he is genuinely involved in this. The question is that we already have in force legislation that one hundred percent of vocational education has been transferred to Estonian-language education. Actually, I'm saying that's not true. A single frame has been created legally, but in essence it has not been furnished in practice. Consequently, the first question is that, of course, we must continue. First of all, political will must be defined. I believe that this Parliament must do so by means of its mandatory guideline, and this guideline cannot be too scattered, as is currently stated in the development plans that can be interpreted and interpreted. If we read the comments of today's government's leading politicians, they're like night and day. You open up the Russian Delfi, where Mr Aab writes, you listen to the Prime Minister or the Minister of Education, and it seems like there are two governments, two in one, right, two totally contradictory policies. All in all, they're shutting each other down. The result is what? Nothing's gonna happen. Therefore, we must cut it with a scalpel and this cross-section must be precisely this Parliament in defining the political will. Now about the protection of the Estonian language and the organisation of education in Estonian. We all remember the dramatic struggle that took place at the beginning of 2019 around Kohtla-Järve Gymnasium, where, at the same time as the state's own money, with European money, a beautiful school was made, the school was mustered, and a transformation would have emerged that Estonian children would have to go into a factually Russian-speaking environment. This situation must not be allowed to happen, either in Ida-Virumaa, Tallinn or other areas. This is, of course, the country's educational responsibility. In Estonia, a great degree of autonomy in organising general education has been given to local governments, but I think the Constitution provides for the protection of Estonian language and culture, including legitimate goals for all members of society, and the state can also define its will by legal guidance. This will undoubtedly lead us to the fact that, in the law of basic school and upper secondary school at all, this is the bilingual school, which is structured with percentage shares, I would ask: is it compatible and in accordance with the Estonian constitution? Is that even a constitutional norm? There may have been justification for this a long time ago as a transitional provision, but the question is whether the infinite transition is constitutional in nature. It must be seen as an implementing provision and an implementing provision must have its own sunset or sunset. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U25	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U26	Good chairman of the sitting! Good friends! Madam Secretary! What has been said here is all the truth. But actually, I just liked what Mr Stalnukhin said that this hall hadn't done what it should have done a long time ago. Let's look at all this language training. I as an Eastern virumaan and just as I graduated from Kohtla-Järve High School 1, which is now Järve Elementary School, know very well how these things have evolved there, how the desire to learn Estonian has grown, and how the Estonian language has been learned. I myself have taught in several schools, not Estonian, but in Estonian. First of all, I say, there is one very important thing that needs to be resolved for children in other languages: there is a need to teach them to love this country and that language. Yesterday, there were also performers in the stands who said that the situation had improved; the Russian children or the Russian-speaking company already understood the nature of Estonia in Narva and Sillamäe. Yes, we can, but we need work to be done, and we need to have the same review in the libraries of Russian-speaking schools. I've been there. What's in there? There are largely books on "How Harden Steel" etc. The Russian embassy is constantly taking literature to these schools, and it is for this purpose that these children learn it and understand what is really, how to say, the educational direction of the great Russian empire. Fortunately, those teachers who have been educated in Russia and who teach history to our children are on holiday, whether they have already earned or not. It must be started so that these children can understand where they live and what country they love. It's evolving. The second level is those children and those people and parents who are not Russian, but who have been forced to put their children into Russian school. They're Ingerizomians, they're Poles, Ukrainians. Ukrainian society, the ethnic group, comes here and complains that they want to put their children in Estonian school, their children must learn by force in Russian school and Russian kindergarten. It's not normal. This is what we have to solve, which we also have to solve precisely through the education system. How do you do that? We have spent tens of years of money. I also once had suggestions on how to grow educators very quickly and train them. They've been like water on a goose. It's over for today. There's no way to do this anymore. I'm not even gonna talk about it. We have spent money where we do not need to, but we need teachers, teachers and once again teachers who teach in Estonian. Russian schools also need teachers who can give all subjects in Estonian. We're talking about vocational education. The vocational education system of Jõhvi, Sillamäe and Narva is in Russian. Masters don't speak any Estonian, but they raise these children, from hairdressers to welders. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U27	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U28	I have a good friend who taught welding in vocational school. He came out of there. He was the only one who knew how to weld [teach] in Estonian. That's the kind of thing. If we get these people in Estonian, we can't get there who's going... And not like that friend who worked hard and taught these children or young men to weld, but he spoke Russian to them, not Estonian. I told him repeatedly that you can't, you're a master, and you only have to speak to them in Estonian, the children want it. We ourselves are comfortable, lazy, sloppy. If we get through this, maybe it'll help what we're channeling there. Good luck to everyone in this job! We'll be good on our own, then maybe we'll get through this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U29	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U30	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that none of you in this Chamber are arguing that education is the most important part of our future. All parents fight for children's education in order to give their children the best education. Our young people are already so smart that upper secondary school, upper secondary school, our children choose in most cases themselves, not parents. Young people already know where to go, what to learn, in which school some professional teacher is better. But does everyone have those opportunities? I believe that years ago the right decision was made to build state secondary schools. Today, most counties have their own state gymnasium. But there are also regions where it is difficult to get a good education at close range in practice. I'm talking about local governments on the shore of Peipsi. There are several concerns. One thing is that in many places school houses may not be as beautiful as we hope. Another concern is that there are not as many children as the municipality would want. The third concern may sometimes be that there is no choice between teachers whose knowledge of Estonian would be very good. This problem is pretty serious. I look at the Mustjõe municipality, where there are two upper secondary schools: one in Estonian Alatskivi and the other in Mustvee, where both may not have as many children as they want. At the same time, it creates a lot of tension and problems. The second is Peipsiääre municipality, where there is no upper secondary school. Alatskivi has a beautiful school building, but children who speak Russian at home are now between two schools. They want to shut down the school on shores. There used to be a high school there. That's where the problem is that there aren't enough children. At the same time, the small municipality does not have the capacity to build decent, beautiful school houses. I think we have often spoken and listened to this talk in this Chamber, how we help children who speak Russian or other languages at home to learn Estonian. At the same time, we forget these regions and do not give these municipalities special support. Here is where we should look more and more so that, in the case of early childhood education, primary education and comprehensive school, all parents who want their children to be able to study Estonian alongside their own mother tongue have these conditions. Unfortunately, this is not the case today, and it creates tensions and concerns in the regions, tensions between parents, local governments, councils. I believe that, when the state budget is being discussed here in the autumn and peaks are being broken, the Minister of Finance can bring here with the budget that in all regions that wish to provide good education in Estonian to other language-learning children, these opportunities are being created, and financial opportunities are being created so that there is no need to fear any more. There are also smaller upper secondary schools in some areas that are a little more remote. It doesn't make sense to take a bus from a distance of 40 to 50 kilometres for children to meet. It's going to be a very long day when the bus has to go through several and several areas. The child gets up at six o'clock to be at school by 8:30 or 9:30. It'll be a very long day. The power and the strength to bring the Minister the right thoughts to this hall! I believe that the Riigikogu is ready to support more and more Estonians and children of other nationalities to learn in Estonian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U31	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U32	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear co-workers, Estonian language keepers, protectors and developers at the same time! The Estonian language is the most beautiful language, the closest language to the heart, I think, for all of us in this hall. But there are so many beautiful languages in the world. Surely, no language should be humiliated or elevated in any way. But it is clear that language and culture are the hallmark of one country and nation and must be preserved, it must be protected everywhere, at every moment, especially in a small nation like us, Estonians. I've had the happiness of my skin, my family's skin to feel a little baby grow up to be a schoolboy, and at one point she's going to school, a near-home school. A boy named ARNO put him there. This school is a Russian school, Tammsaare school. At the same time, the local government has had so much ambition and common sense that it has been understood that the future of children is the future of all of us and that the Estonian language must be known as the state language of Estonia. And finally, it's decided to make that transition. Marko Šorin, sitting right here in the hall, waving and waving, has also played a part in this. But we all know that this is not going to be easy. It doesn't come easily because the name of this thing is politics and politics at the expense of our future, our children. I am very aware that these decisions are difficult. But this talk to the point that it is somehow difficult for children to cope in a cultural environment where Slavic culture may be more dominated, perhaps Russian often sounds during recess, despite the fact that the first class is also open in Estonian... Perhaps the problem is that assistant teachers who are in a long-day group or socialize children after school do not know enough Estonian and that small problems arise when it is necessary to communicate with parents or to convey a message to the teacher and the teacher does not understand it, but these are the signs of society growing together. They happen in every society, and it is inevitable if we want to make a difference. But I'm more than sure our family son will be happy at this school. He's happy. I think he's going to learn more because of this change than he would have been in regular school. But the truth is that these tears of concern, this amazement that possesses parents at this nostalgic moment, when their bushes go to first class and sound the rhythms of Russian and the walking boys and girls who speak Russian, are great in the hearts of parents, especially in the hearts of Estonians. But I believe that exactly the same concern that at one point something would change for these Russian people in Estonian society is great. Both sides must be understood and understood. Once something has started in politics, it is clear that it must be brought to an end. If such a great change has been made in our educational network, then it must go to the end. The worst that can happen is that it will somehow linger, it will remain incomplete, it will send confusing messages and it will harm our country, our decision-makers and, in fact, the future of the country as a whole. I very much hope that Pärnu's educational strategy will continue this line. The decision states that no new Russian class will be opened for the next year of study. So far, it's been done. I hope that there will be a straight back and a firm word in this continuity, and we will not, in fact, at one point, prefer small Russian-speaking classes in order to maintain Russian-language learning. Thank you. Good luck with our determination and clear Estonian in Estonian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U33	The members of the Riigikogu have no more wishes for words. The Minister for Education and Science has also asked for the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U34	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to conclude by thanking you for a very long and meaningful debate on an important subject and by confirming that we have indeed agreed in the coalition that we will draw up an action plan for education in Estonian. I have convened a working group of experts to draw up this action plan, which has met twice today and held very long and meaningful consultations. This action plan should be ready by November. It was also said here at night that, in fact, public opinion studies show that both the Estonian-speaking community and the Russian-speaking community are of the opinion that our children should study together, under one roof. This is already demonstrated by real decisions. Every year, thousands of children in other languages come to the Estonian-language education system, either for early childhood education or for primary education. The question is how we support these educational institutions so that they can do as well as possible. If we do not support these educational institutions in Estonian and more and more children in other languages are coming there, then the problem and the problem is because schools cannot handle them. That is our task; we must support these educational institutions so that children in Estonian can receive a very good education, and children in other languages also receive a very good education in Estonian-speaking schools. One thing we can certainly do is that all children can learn their mother tongue as their mother tongue, that Estonians learn Estonian as their mother tongue and Russian as their foreign language, and that Russian children learn their mother tongue as their mother tongue and Estonian as their foreign language. In addition, we certainly need to deal with the language training of teachers. We have 1900 teachers who do not meet the language requirements. There is certainly a need to motivate these teachers to learn the official language. We certainly need to develop a methodology. To teach children in other languages in Estonian, to teach subjects in other languages in Estonian, separate methodologies are needed and, of course, educational tools are also needed. For all of this, we've planned the money. I also look forward to proposals from the working group so that in essence all Estonian children can receive the best possible education in the Republic of Estonia. Thank you for the debate and for the strength of all of us to achieve this goal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U35	We have exhausted this item nicely.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U36	Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of the Republic has sent us, pursuant to § 134 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu, a request to discuss the requirement to express censure to the Minister of Defence Kalle Laanet at today's session of the Riigikogu. Accordingly, the President of the Riigikogu has added to today's agenda item No 2, which is the debate on a motion of censure. In order to prepare it technically, I'll take the chairman's break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U37	Honourable Riigikogu, I'm going to go over this for a moment. I understand that some members of the Riigikogu had questions. Since yesterday's last item on the agenda became today's first item on the agenda, the debate on the motion of censure is the second item on which we are now going. I would like to remind you that when you process a motion of mistrust, a representative of the initiators of a motion of mistrust will first get the floor. First there are 20 minutes of the speech of the representative of the initiator, then the minister has up to 20 minutes to answer and then every member of the Riigikogu has up to two questions. Only the representatives of the political groups can speak during the negotiations. In the final vote, the minister has been distrusted if the majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is in favour of the publication of censure. Okay. Let us go to the debate on this item. First of all, on behalf of Mr. Helir-Valdor Seeder, on behalf of the speakers of the distrust of the Chair. Please! Imre Sooäär, you have a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U38	Good chairman of the sitting! I would like to clarify exactly how the negotiation procedure states how many speaking rights, the right to speak rights. Can you be more specific about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U39	I even said that only the representatives of the political groups have a say in the negotiations. Please, Mr. Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U40	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In recent months we have had to talk a lot about national defence and Estonia's security. The Minister of Defence has been in front of Parliament to respond to both briefings and enquiries. These answers have led to the fact that today 31 members of the Riigikogu have initiated a distrust of defence minister Kalle Laanet. In our opinion, Kalle Laane, as Minister of Defence, does not understand his role in ensuring the security of Estonia and does not recognise Estonia's difficult geopolitical situation. The Minister has, with his explanations and answers, misled the public before Parliament. The Minister has confirmed that defence expenditure will not be reduced. There are no reductions in national defence expenditures; he has repeatedly emphasised this here. Also, the capabilities and our security situation will not be undermined. However, the question then arises: if national defence spending is not reduced, but even increased, why is there a need to bring together an additional 270 people in the field of administration of the Ministry of Defence, active troops, officials, members of the Defence League's staff? These cuts are very foolish and undermine Estonia's security. Who are we really kidding? Of course, defence costs will be reduced compared to the previously approved national budget strategy and the RES will be reduced to over EUR 100 million in the coming years. To say that it is fictional and now finally an invented nationalist ever-mobile, that we are reducing costs and our defence capabilities even improve, not decrease, that is a direct lie. Staff. The cuts that concern the Defence League are particularly painful. The Defence League is a voluntary national defence organisation that maintains a high level of morals and protection. This message, which we are now issuing, that we are bringing together a small professional part of a voluntary national defence organisation, which is a paid part, is a completely wrong step and the wrong signal inwards for those who contribute their time and energy to the security of the Estonian state. But that is also the wrong signal for our allies, our allies in NATO, and also our neighbours who are not in NATO. These cuts are not only a direct concern for the Defence Forces and the Defence League. These cuts also concern our external relations, diplomacy. Let us recall the importance of a credible predictable policy for a small country, as well as diplomatic communication. We're going to lay off the defensive attachés, including in Poland. Poland is also one of our biggest allies in Eastern Europe as part of NATO cooperation. We've become so poor. But let us recall that the Republic of Estonia was also born in 1918 and in the ensuing war of freedom not only on the battlefield, but also in cooperation with diplomats, smart politics. We restored independence during the singing revolution, where music, song and music played a very important role. It is therefore not worth underestimating or underestimating the elimination of the Defence Forces Orchestra in this form. Deferring many capabilities is a reality, although at first the Minister of Defence denied it. But today the Commander of the Defence Forces has confirmed that the development of several capabilities will be postponed, and in the current situation, the development of capabilities will be postponed. In the current situation in the Baltic Sea region, on the contrary, several countries have decided to increase national defence spending and the threat assessment given on security in Europe at large, but also here in the Baltic Sea region, is worrying and rather deteriorating, not improving. I will now return to the country's budgetary strategy. There's been a lot of debate here, too, and the minister's been wrestling right here. The port of mine is planned in the state budget strategy for the revenue side, i.e. it is planned to sell. The Secretary-General of the Ministry of Defence has confirmed, however, that the Minister himself has later stated that he does not really intend to sell the Port of Mine. We've got a piece of shit on our eyes here. We've got air planned for the revenue side. The government hasn't really planned the sale of the mineyard. Hopefully, when it comes to the adoption of the actual state budget, we will find out the truth about whether there is going to be something to do with the Port of Mine and what to do. Some long-term investments and capacity developments are postponed to an unknown distance. Therefore, the current development plans need to be revised. Now from the orchestra. It can be viewed in one way or another. Should funding a single orchestra directly within the Ministry of Defence area be a priority or not? Is it a symbol? Is it part of the culture? Yeah, it's all that. It's also part of the defense. Defence forces and the army are also part of culture, and vice versa. What's happening to this orchestra right now is resentment. Now people get laid off, they get paid annual compensation, and then, in some form, they create a substitute for the museum, the war museum. What does that mean? Will the museum not be financed at the expense of the taxpayer of the Estonian state? Will it then be financed by Latvian taxpayers? No, it's also coming from the Estonian state budget. This is also coming from the Estonian state budget. This behavior is incomprehensible. Other ministers have responded to this. Minister of the Centre Party, Minister of Culture, Coalition partner of the Reform Party, has said that this activity is not in accordance with Estonia's interests. So, in fact, the coalition partner at the highest level, at ministerial level, has also assessed this activity that it is not in Estonia's interests what the Minister of Defence has proposed with cuts. Jaak Aab, the head of the Central Party's government delegation, has also said that the Minister of Defence should reconsider his proposals for cuts. From this we can conclude very clearly that this is not a broad-based and coalition common decision to go to make cuts, but it is clear from this that it is a very strong personal initiative of the Minister of Defence. At the very least, it has not been possible for the Riigikogu to have broad-based government support for these decisions as coalition partners, ministers, other members of the government make such statements and assessments. Chaplain Service. In the same way, the psychological and spiritual status of defence forces is important for defence capabilities in order to be morally prepared to act in the name of Estonia's defence in the event of unexpected developments. Our young men, who go on missions, find themselves in very different, very difficult situations. As I said, a number of countries have chosen a different path in the Baltic Sea region, an increase in national defence spending. In the current security policy situation, this has been the right choice. It's not wise for us to swim against the current. The Fatherland Party has always supported conservative monetary policy and that we do not survive beyond our means. But our language, culture, financing our health care system and our education system and everything else that is necessary for our society and which is the basis for the functioning of the Estonian state can be [at present] when we have security, first of all national independence and security. If we do not have it, there is no point in contributing to other areas of life and their development. So it is not basically a matter of saving needs that could be saved, and this should be done on a reasonable scale, but on what cuts have been made. More broadly, we have been talking about the education of interest here, we have been talking about ending the compensation for housing interest and many other things, which are also completely unreasonable cuts. But they're particularly large and disproportionate in the DOD's jurisdiction. Let's ask him where the shoe is squeezing. At the same time, the government is planning to build tens of millions of new office buildings for the Ministry of the Environment. But we don't have enough money for defense. We need to lay off 270 people from the front line to build an office building for the Ministry of the Environment right now. So narrow is the Estonian state. I can't believe it. These cuts are being made in the wrong place. If the Minister justifies and defends these proposals, it is completely incomprehensible. So the issue is not just about the people involved in the Defence Forces and those who are worried about Estonian national defence. The cultural public and the public have also addressed both the members of the government and the members of the Riigikogu in a public letter and have not received a clear and sensible response today. Very many people have also approached members of the Riigikogu and asked why you are not doing anything about it. But why don't you do something about it? Yeah, we've been asking questions. We will certainly present alternative proposals in the autumn concerning the preparation of the state budget, because the state's budgetary strategy cannot be improved and changed by the Riigikogu and the opposition. This is government competence, exclusive government competence. However, we can have a say in drawing up the state budget. We will certainly also make our amendments. But I very much hope that these signals and the latest reviews, which reflect the development of the Estonian economy and the forecast for the near future and which are rather positive, will give hope that such insane decisions should not be taken by the government. The sooner these decisions are reviewed, the less tensions in society and the better. But, unfortunately, neither the Minister of Defence nor the Minister of Education who was present here yesterday showed that he did not stand ready, even if the real economic development and tax receipts turn out to be significantly better than previous forecasts, so that they could reconsider these decisions. Today's motion of distrust is also a signal and pressure for the Minister of Defence to think and the government to think very seriously that these decisions need to be reviewed. As a result, 31 members of the Riigikogu have initiated a motion of distrust. We hope that this debate of censure will contribute to smarter decisions and lead coalition politicians to understand and believe that it is reasonable to review these earlier decisions, especially in a changing situation, also taking into account feedback from the public and society, and given the very difficult geopolitical situation and security situation in Estonia, which is extremely anxious and unstable near our borders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U41	Mr Kalle Laanet, Minister of Defence, is now welcome to the speaker's desk. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U42	Honourable Vice President! Happy members of the Riigikogu and signatories to a motion of censure! I'm glad to be in front of you in that sense, that I've been spotted. The most important thing for a politician is to understand that a politician is doing something. But I will start with the fact that the protection of the Estonian state, the security of the state, is a priority and extremely important for me personally, for the Reform Party and for the coalition. It was written in the text of this distrust that I lied, said, and didn't know anything about national defence. Yeah, I'm certainly not a top military defense specialist, but I haven't lied and whipped. If, just a moment ago, Mr Seeder said that the Polish defence Attaché place would be laid off, I will say that he is lying: not being laid off. When we talk about the budget, the RES, which is a government document, the previous government with, in particular, the head of the finance minister, one of the coalition partners, wrote a lot of air, what is really unrealistic. And that's why we're in the picture we're discussing here today. Let's talk numbers. The total cost of defence was EUR 622.9 million in 2020, EUR 646.0 in 2021, EUR 712.3 million in 2022, EUR 700.3 million in 2023, EUR 697.1 million at present and EUR 717.3 million in 2025. But we know, everyone in this Chamber, that the RES is a political document of the government, based on what could be planned in this financial and economic situation at that moment. You, honourable members of the Riigikogu, have not confirmed this, it is not a law. You also know that the RES will be reviewed every year. So talking here about how the world collapses and how we don't stand up for national defence is wrong. EUR 277 million will be invested next year. Yes, we are saving daily costs in the field of defence in order to invest in our country's military defence capabilities. Yesterday, I read out what the main directions to invest are. But thank you for standing before you today and answering your questions. I'm waiting for your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U43	These questions will begin with Leo Kunnas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U44	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Kalle! We're sorry we're in this situation today. But my question concerns strategy 2035 which the coalition ambassadors voted down in this Chamber on 12 May and where we proposed that the defence costs should be increased to 2.6% and we should keep it until the end of the decade and, if necessary, take out a loan. Can you explain why the ambassadors did this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U45	The short answer is I can't explain it. There are certainly very important reasons. As far as the National Defence Development Plan is concerned, by 1 September, the Ministry of Defence has an obligation and agreement to submit the National Defence Development Plan to the Government of the Republic for the next 10 years and all members of the Riigikogu are more than expected to give their input there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U46	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U47	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, I'm about to say I don't agree with the initiators. I don't think, at least according to the information you've known so far, you've done anything that deserves to be mistrusted. But I guess this chair is gonna give you a chance to clear or unravel these things. One of the topics is indeed the Orchestra of the Defence Forces. The military orchestra has always been part of the military bloodstream. It hasn't been just an order orchestra. They have a slightly different posture, a different form of marching, thanks to the fact that they have to meet NATO's requirements each year, to carry out all the same physical tests performed by the rest of the Defence Forces. It also guarantees that they have the same breath as the Defence Forces. Now, if you send them to the museum for "musicals," first of all, they're old enough? Is this really the final decision? Maybe it's worth seeing them as pride, as part of our Defence Forces system, the same bloodstream, and finding some other, better solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U48	Thank you, good questioner! I believe that working within the Ministry of Defence's jurisdiction is not a museum and that it is proud. I think it should be that way. The orchestra continues in the Ministry of Defence area, one of which is the War Museum.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U49	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U50	Thank you very much. Good mistrust! I am pleased to hear that national defence is very important to you. But I suspect it's a slogan like this, not a very serious sentence. The question, therefore, is whether you have any seriously good ideas for telling our politicians how to stop our defence ability, our national dignity and the decline in defence standards.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U51	It starts here in the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U52	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U53	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I'm very worried when I see that there's a plan in the Defence League to gather 40 more people inside the 270 what this cut is all about. Could you be more specific about what kind of positions these are going to hit in the Defence League, these chiefs of chess, these instructors, these are the members of the Defence Forces School? Apparently, I think a lot of people are watching this broadcast right now. What kind of jobs are we going to lay off?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U54	Thank you for your question. First of all, I think a lot of people aren't watching this broadcast because these transfers from this hall are devaluation. That's point one. Point two is that the main function of the General Staff of the Defence League is a peaceful function and the Defence Forces headquarters are taking over these functions. So nothing like this is about to happen that could damage our defenses, but it actually strengthens our defences.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U55	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U56	Thank you, good manager. Good Kalle! I know you, I know you for years, and I know that in fact you are wholeheartedly in favour of strengthening the defence capabilities of the Estonian state. But you've been put in a very bad position right now. I have this feeling that it works like this motivation, how to say, a factor that's in total modes, that you promise to kick your ass, and then you don't kick your ass afterwards, you've motivated this society a lot more. Right now, it looks like it's exactly the same with the money, that we take it off, take it off, but we're not gonna take it off. But I still want to tell you that this very orchestra of the Defence Forces, I do not agree with it under any circumstances that under the Ministry he is just as dignified as under the Defence Forces. I have been working on this and I know that it is not a matter of one day to shape the spirit of defence. Please take a look at this and don't do anything stupid!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U57	Thank you, good Riho, for your warm words. You understand exactly as I do: if you're a leader and you're going to change the decision of your subordinate, who's the leader of the unit, you're going to have to replace that leader. I trust Martin Herem and I don't intend to replace him. So the orchestra is moving under the Department of Defense. I think at some point in time everyone will understand that this was the right decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U58	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U59	Good manager! Dear Minister, I understand, Kalle, that as a minister, you have to do teamwork and make certain decisions that have been agreed upon in the coalition. And I also understand that somehow you've come across the front line because your people have fought against cuts. But I'd like to ask you. Your party partner, Ants Laaneots, has said that only the fifth column will cut defence costs. How do you comment on that sentence and the point? Does our coalition today have anything to do with column five or what's behind it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U60	Thank you, good Aivar! Let me ask you, maybe rhetorically, is the number 712,3 greater than 646,0? What Ants Laaneots meant with his opinion, you can ask in the hall after.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U61	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U62	Thank you. Good mistrust! You mentioned earlier that the previous government has written into the defense budget a whole lot of empty air. Please explain whether this was a hint of midland anti-aircraft, and have you really finally given up and gave up on filling this significant power gap?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U63	The air was written into the country's budget strategy, which was the basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U64	Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U65	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I'm asking a statistical question about mistrusters. How many distrusters have themselves worn the Estonian Defence Forces uniform during military service?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U66	Thank you. Very good question, please next. Unfortunately, I owe you an answer, I don't know. But I'll specify it when I can, and then I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U67	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U68	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. As soon as you took office, one of your first concerns was that you did not like the term of military service. What kind of fish do you have with this military service? Once upon a time, your party made desperate efforts to make our army equal to Latvia's [Army]. And that didn't work, so you took the number of conscripts down as much as you could. But what kind of fish do you have with this term of military service, what's wrong with him and what do you offer to replace?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U69	Thank you for the substantive question. The word for military service does not really represent the activities that young people do for 8 and 11 months; they do not serve any time, but they are training to protect the Estonian state. With regard to 2007 and the opinion expressed by Jürgen Ligi at the time, it was only an opinion at the moment, it was not even seriously considered by anyone in the party, nor was it the party's idea from the end, it was just one of the thoughts of that moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U70	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U71	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The desire for protection can be amplified by the so-called physical environment and the things that cost money. It is difficult to measure such a willingness to protect in money. But my question comes in the context of the Defence League. We both know that Saaremaa has got a new center, there was and there is Pärnu, who also wanted a new house. In the discussion, we already reached the point in the previous coalition that, in fact, it would be better to fix the old one. The Tartu Chev looks forward to the same contribution. Are these cuts now also affecting the investments of the Defence League? These decisions must indeed be taken by the chief within the budget of the Defence Union, but the development of this physical environment is an integral part of defence and capacity development. How's that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U72	Thank you, good Andres, for this question. As has been pointed out several times from this remote control, austerity points relate to operating costs, i.e. management costs and personnel costs. As far as I know, the investment plans and what concerns these buildings have not been changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U73	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U74	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. First of all, I'd like to remind you why you're here on the remote today. Two main reasons. The first complaint we have for you is that you are not standing up for your field. The second complaint is that you have not been honest with the public or with the Riigikogu. With this dishonesty, you've continued to be here on the remote. Somehow it's my fault that today you guys have to cut down on some bluff or some wrong numbers somewhere. This is bullshit. In the previous RES, very large investments were foreseen in the field of defence, and our party was prepared to make even greater investments. The fact that the budget receipts were also projected to be very small, I knew already last autumn that this was not true, and that is why my head was not bothering them very much. There's really no need to cut. I have a simple question. If you keep saying that revenue is actually increasing and the cost of protection in the state budget is constantly increasing, why are you doing cuts? Why are you putting people together and closing the orchestras?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U75	Thank you for your question. I recall the time when the esteemed [former] Minister of Finance was in this Chamber and answered a motion of distrust as well as various other questions. One key message was that there is too much public sector. But that's it. Business newspaper Delfi, 08.09.2020: "Minister of Finance: With a lot of money, we risk putting it in places where it won't come back. But we're spending a lot of money right now. " I quote: "While he has supported the subject, defence expenditure, which is fixed at 2% of GDP, should be reduced in the current situation where gross domestic product is also falling."
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U76	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U77	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, You claim that you are not planning a reduction in defence costs. But of course, if you look at the previous RES and today, that's not the case. You can juggle and claim anything with numbers. That is, in a way, one of the reasons for your mistrust. Yesterday, we were discussing a reduction in interest education money, and at least the Minister honestly said that he was very sorry that he had made such a decision. He was honest and sincere. The problem that you are not honest and sincere is one of the reasons. But the question is, why do you still lay off the staff, why do you reduce the number of people working in the Defence Forces if it is not necessary to concentrate if the money is not reduced?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U78	Money, good questioner, no less. In order to further enhance our defence capabilities, our military defence capabilities, we are raising the budget internally, from operating costs to investment. And sometimes when you say I'm lying, give me specific examples.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U79	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U80	Good manager! Good waitress! I don't like the so-called decoy of the Defence Forces Orchestra either. But yesterday, we met early in the morning, and, frankly, the Minister of the Interior made me very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very scary compared to you. You were frank and frank. Honestly, I feel sorry for you, women have put you in a tank with their obsessions. I have two questions for you. Tõnis Kaumann, the composer, has proposed excellent new proverbs. One of them, which also applies to the army and to you, is that a good cut wins the power of a stranger. And the second is that whoever cuts in the spring, it goes in the fall. I'm asking you, as Secretary of Defense, how would you comment on this new old word that a good cut wins the power of a stranger?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U81	I think that's the way it is: a good cut wins the power of a stranger. And I guess I'll go when the Riigikogu Hall decides.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U82	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U83	Honourable Minister! I didn't come up with anything to do with the possible closure of the attaché. I've been looking right into the memory to refresh. On 1 June, information appeared in the press where both the Minister of Defence and the Commander of the Defence Forces comment on the proposals and plans for cuts. It explicitly states: the Ministry of Defence is also planning to abandon a defence attaché in Warsaw and Tbilisi. So I rely on the information that has come through the mouth of the Commander of the Defence Forces and the Minister. I've never heard of it being disproved in a public space. But that's it. In your brief speech, you said that the RES is simply a plan, a political plan that the government is planning, and it may not be accurate and real. Can it be said, then, that if such ideas or plans as the government has, and as a result of which 270 people are actually laid off, the orchestra is eliminated, the chaplain service is abolished, everything is implemented, and then it becomes clear that the plan will change, then the process will be reversed?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U84	Thank you. Every year, the RES is reviewed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U85	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U86	Thank you very much. Good Kalle! When I listen to you, I remember the words of Charles de Gaulle that politics is something that cannot be trusted by politicians. But what good advice, a heartfelt recommendation, would you give to our politicians so that we can have a good, competent and responsible Minister of Defence?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U87	After all, the Minister of Defence usually comes from among politicians. I think the easiest thing to do is to keep the politicians' reputation and flag high, not bring it down.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U88	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U89	Thank you. Good minister! I'm going to specify my last question. Let me get this straight. The 40 places in the Defence League we're talking about cutting down are the plan to make them at the expense of the positions of the General Staff of the Defence Forces, taking them over to the Defence Forces headquarters? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U90	It's wide, mostly, not all of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U91	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U92	Thank you. Dear Minister, You did not answer Seeder's question about the Polish war Attaché. In the Committee on Foreign Affairs, when it was said which places were being cut, the last information was that the place of a war Attaché in Poland would be lost. If you have any other information, I would like to know what it is and how fresh it is and how Seeder must have known it, unless even in the Committee on Foreign Affairs we have had any other information so far. And then one rhetorical question: is 5.02 much bigger than 5,12?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U93	I don't have to answer a rhetorical question. [[Laughing.]] But yes, I said exactly the same in my introduction that Poland's defence Attaché would remain in office. It was a debate, but not a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U94	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U95	Thank you. These questions, which you are discussing and on the basis of which we have to make decisions, are still going to be very difficult if all the ideas and debates that have been put forward are not openly overturned, but then you come and say that they were, in fact, debates that did not reach the decisions. Interesting! On 23 March, you said that it was no longer possible, as was the case in 2009, that internal resources could be delivered, that significant internal cuts were already made in the preparation of the National Defence Development Plan 2030, both in fixed costs and in the modification of military units. Maintaining 2% on the basis of the post-epidemic economic forecast would essentially lead to a reduction in the military structure in the current plans. Now you're talking about how the current 2.3 is the same as the previous 2%. I have a question: in the meantime, what has happened in these three months that you have reached the cuts that you said on 23 March that there is no sense and no internal resources?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U96	I can answer your good question in such a way that defence spending is the only area that has been said today where the state budget will grow next year. Point one. Point two is that the new government, which had then been in office for a few months, understood what the state's financial position was. Unfortunately, this clarification did not arrive immediately the next day and it was introduced in this time frame. Thirdly, as I said at the beginning, I will stand as long as I am a politician, an Estonian person, a member of the Riigikogu for strengthening Estonian national defence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U97	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U98	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! A few comments on your responses to date. If you say that you trust Martin Herem, that is very strange, because it is precisely the words of Martin Herem and the unruly steps which, we have understood, were not coordinated with you either, there is one reason why you are distrustful here at the moment. If you trust a man like that, it's a strange story. The second question is that Martin Herem will not be able to use this budgetary money, which you claim will increase in defence spending, to increase our real defence capacity. That's why you can't trust him, and you shouldn't trust him. The question I have is: if you cannot protect people in your field, orchestras, other workers in your time of peace, how do you imagine that in a war situation you will be able to protect people who are going to risk their lives?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U99	Thank you. Thank you for your comments and comments. I'm protecting people working for the Ministry of Defense, lifting them from the Defence Forces under the Ministry of Defence in the form of an orchestra.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U100	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U101	Thank you, Mr President. Good mistrust! On the basis of what analysis have national defence cuts been made, and what is the impact of these cuts? Who did the impact analysis, and what does this analysis say?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U102	Thank you. As Minister for Defence, I told the leaders in my field that they had to find 5% cuts in operational expenditure, and they came to the Minister with their proposals. On this basis, decisions were taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U103	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U104	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'd like to ask you more specifically. How do you intend to compensate for any significant changes in your abilities? In particular, I am interested in mid-earth anti-aircraft, which is also extremely important from the point of view of cooperation with the allies. It was pretty close last year to make it happen, but according to the latest pieces of information, I understand that this is not a speech. What are you going to do to compensate for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U105	Thank you, good General, for your question. September 1 is the deadline when we have to submit a national defence development plan to the government again. I'm waiting for your input on what it would look like the best way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U106	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U107	Minister, thank you very much. I'm gonna give my date Paul to Puustusmaa a little second and ask you a further question. His question was, do you have any good idea how to stop our country's defence capabilities, national dignity and the moral decline of the Defence Forces? You answered yourself in character, as a warrior, as a laconic: it begins here in this hall. I believe that you would deserve recognition if you made up your coalition mates with this sentence, who have voted in favour of cuts in this Chamber, and will now make this clear. Is that right? Who were you thinking?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U108	Thank you, good questioner! It's not just money that makes you want protection. The defence is made up of many components, one of which is definitely the example of the members of the Riigikogu, the use of words, the way they participate in the wide-spread defence of our country on a daily basis, etc. If you think it's all about money, I'll say money is one of the few resources in this whole process.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U109	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U110	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Good minister! Of course you can quote Delfi. Then you're just going along the same path that you're spreading lies here. But it would have been good if there was a context to this quote. What I fought for last autumn, and for which our party fought last autumn, was that the defence budget would be used more rationally and, together, that money would be given to specific investments. In the end, we did so, and in the end, we increased the national defence money significantly. But you didn't really answer the question. My question was: if more money comes, why do we need to cut it now; if more money comes, why do we need to concentrate people? You mentioned here, in answer to another question, that there is some potential that can be increased at the expense of these austerity points. What are these capabilities, then, that will be increased compared to existing plans? What do these people do for their cut wages, cut bands and all these things that weren't planned before? And if there's more money, why do you have to cut it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U111	Thank you. I hope that the honourable member of the Riigikogu, the deputy speaker and former Minister of Finance also know that the plans in the field of defence are very long. There's a ten-year plan, or RKAK, it's a four-year plan, or KMAK. I mean, they're working on those plans, aren't they? As a general rule, the coalition agreement, which is agreed upon there, will be used as a basis. Of course, a country's budgetary strategy, or its financial forecast, is certainly the basis for some kind of action. The cornerstone of the coalition agreement is that the defence budget is at least 2% of GDP. This clause of the contract shall be fulfilled with great accuracy. I very much hope, of course, that the next government coalition that will come after 2023, or the same one that will continue, will keep in the same direction so that Estonia's defence capacity will improve.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U112	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U113	Good manager! Good minister! Perhaps then [in response] to one of the previous speakers. I'm gonna save you from investigating how many militias we have. I can tell you that there's a very high percentage of the signatories that are armed forces, officers, and there's reserve officers, that's that side, and defence allies. The second thing I want to say is that everyone understands: the defence capability is based on three pillars. It is a defensive spirit, a human resource and a material resource. It's the basis of the will for protection. But for these foundations and all the resources to work, it's gonna take people. Training people to have this spirituality is a very big process. How do you intend to replace those people and those activities that are currently trained in active service in the Defence Forces, who now have to go under redundancy and find pay-per-view work elsewhere because they are very good?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U114	Thank you, good Riho, for this question. I didn't make it very clear how many people we have here who have been in military service and how many defence allies there are, but there are certainly many of them in this Chamber. But as for our future, it is planned to increase the number of conscripts from 350 to 4000. As for young officers coming from the Academy of the Defence Forces to join the service, there is a large number coming from there in 2023. In my opinion, this number is not exactly used. There are very many outstanding posts among these 270, they have not actually been filled. As we know, there are people in every organization who are pensioning, there are people who leave for health reasons. This is the vision of the Commander of the Defence Forces, how he guarantees Estonia's defence capabilities in the form of personnel.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U115	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U116	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Secretary of Defense! First of all, I would like to congratulate the Ministry of Defence on the invention of your strategic communication worker, who claimed that the Minister was not lying, the Minister is generalising. That was resourceful. But the Russians reported a few weeks ago that they were forming 20 new battle forces along the western border, in addition to this vast army, which is all the way to the Urals. My question is, have you now paraphrased the outstanding Estonian philosopher Mikk Pärnits, in the government of wicked middle-aged women, explained the changed threat assessment and the military situation? If you have explained, what has been the understanding?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U117	Thank you, good questioner! Those people in this Chamber who have been members of the Government of the Republic know that certain ministers regularly receive reviews from the Defence Police Department, the Intelligence Centre and the Foreign Intelligence Department in the Security Committee of the Government of the Republic. So I am more than convinced that those members of the cabinet who need to know more about the security situation know that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U118	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U119	Thank you, manager. Honourable! The previous questioner asked for your threat assessment of the current situation, but I have to ask it again. You'll get more briefings, but it shouldn't be a surprise what just happened at the Ukrainian borders. I call it escalation. The question is whether you think the situation is more alarming than usual, and if it is more alarming than usual, should it not be responded to by the rapid rise in defence costs. What's your assessment?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U120	Thank you. If I may be more specific, the previous questioner did not ask for my position, but asked whether the members of the cabinet of the Government of the Republic were informed of the situation, and my answer was that yes, the relevant ministers were. That was an explanation. Now your question specifically. Money is a means, money is not an ability and readiness. If you think that the sign we are discussing here today will increase Estonia's deterrent towards Russia, you are, unfortunately, wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U121	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U122	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! You trust Herem, okay. I told you yesterday that your resolve honors you. Although he has gone after the orchestras, he has constantly resisted targeted funding that would strengthen our defence capabilities in both armoured capabilities and midworld anti-aircraft. We all know where this general plan of cuts comes from, and we know that in this form it's crazy and wrong. You, as a minister, should be in the government to make sure that this nonsense does not reach your jurisdiction. But you have not been able to do so as Minister of Defence, and that is already a very clear reason why you are here today and why we mistrust you today. If you do not want to understand this and take responsibility for what has happened in my area of administration, then I would now refer the matter to a different location. You say you have trust below, but let's look higher now. Do you trust those clippers, the architect of this plan? I am talking here about the Prime Minister, your boss and the real responsible. Do you trust the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U123	First of all, thank you for your question. I have to tell you that the Prime Minister is not my boss, but he is my colleague and head of government. As you know very clearly, decisions are taken in the government in a collegiate way. I would like to emphasise once again that defence is the only area today that is going to grow budgetably next year, rather than shrink.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U124	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U125	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The answer to the previous question was that we are cutting economic costs and personnel costs. At the same time, we know that the debate on the National Defence Development Plan, in the form of the OTRK that has already been in this Chamber, will be reopened in the autumn. National Defence Development Plan is a document that primarily involves investments. Let me get this straight. We are actually going to make a cut in investment in the autumn, and we are going to talk about more money than we are today? Am I getting this right? Well, plan A and plan B. Internally, we've talked about plan B. I think we will soon reach the context of Plan B at international level. Has the invitation to NATO headquarters already come with the question of what's going on at that eastern border?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U126	Thank you. I can start by seeing NATO defence ministers on a regular basis and exchanging information on a regular basis. Together with Estonia, there are nine Member States, NATO Member States, or less than half of which fulfil the agreement of 2% of GDP. Yes, next year, they are expected to be 11 and more by 2024. I have always believed that defence, both military defence and wide-spread defence, we must contribute to continuous development in order for our country to be protected. I would point out that the National Defence Development Plan must have been placed in government by 1 September, i.e. locked down, and that it will review all these stages of development.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U127	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U128	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You said it wasn't all about money, and I'm okay with it as long as there's money. Once the money's gone, it's gonna become a big problem, whether it's wages or investments. The budget is the kind of thing that depends on where to look. If you look at the budget, it really is rising over the years, but compared to the previous RES, which had been made for that year, it will fall significantly. But my question is whether the areas where the cuts occurred were also discussed. For example, if you look at the National Audit Office's report on bus and coach traffic, in 2024 it amounts to 64,6 million euros, which is actually almost the same difference as the national budget in 20242025. Bus traffic according to the National Audit Office is not very effective. If no other savings have been found, it is my question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U129	Thank you for that question. All ministries were given this task by agreement within the ministry's fields, i.e. ministers themselves had to look at where these opportunities would arise. Maybe the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications will come up with that idea. I don't know, I don't know. But since the DOD's planning process is a little different, we wanted to do our homework quickly and properly. That is why I am certainly before you, too, that since we are the first and have done our job quickly and properly, it has created such an aziotage. That's how life is. But I would also like to add that, for example, our neighbouring country, Finland, has decided to replace its destroyer's park, investing in flight capacity with 59 new fighters, this is some 1.7 billion out of the Finnish state budget. But in order for the whole country to develop, they have the same task of reducing operating costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U130	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U131	Mr. Secretary of Defense! You are certainly aware that petition.com has issued a petition for the protection of professional brass orchestras, signed by 2565 people today. Let me quote from this text: "On 17 May, the Estonian Music Council, together with other important institutions in the field of music, jointly addressed the Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, the Minister of Defence Kalle Laanet and the Minister of Culture Anneli Oti, to express concern about the plan to liquidate the army orchestra. " In fact, this sentence is clearly stated in this text: "It is not appropriate to discuss the termination or reorganisation of professional brass orchestras. " Perhaps restructuring is not appropriate. You are going into culture and symbols with your actions; that is exactly what your colleague Urmas Paet has formulated. Can we count on you to reconsider?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U132	Unfortunately, I don't change my mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U133	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U134	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Minister, thank you very much. I have a question. Can you tell us about the government in which you work, what the priorities of this government are, and whether or not you, as Minister of Defence, consider the defence to be one of those priorities? You've been talking about absolute numbers on several occasions. I have a request that if you don't have a percentage adjustment written behind it now, maybe you'll do it and send it to me, compare defence costs to GDP. Because I thought Lotman's question wasn't rhetorical when he asked you to prove that 5.02 is awfully much bigger than 5.12. That's what you're trying to explain to us all the time, to tell us about absolute numbers, but we all know that defence costs from 2.3 are going down to 2.0, which you yourself have never considered reasonable before. And then you're talking about the huge budget gaps that the previous government left you. I have a question. The State's budget strategy includes the sale of the Mine Harbour to compensate for defence costs. You've disproved it. Is it air in the RES, or what is it that's written in it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U135	The sale of the mineyard is hypothetically indicated there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U136	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U137	Good manager! Good waitress! Again, Kalle, I am truly sorry that you are standing there right now. I'd rather see the Prime Minister there. The company in the government that should be there is much bigger. You're not the first one in my eyes. But I think the women, the women with the balls, have put you in a tank, the ones with the obsession with the cut. I ask whether you have said it in the government, that this idea of cut-off is not the most sensible thing to say, and that the leaders of the government do not have an adequate overview of the financial situation of the Estonian state. Or who has been in a government meeting with "eggs," who has said their differences of opinion that this is not the smartest thing to start cutting, especially in some areas? Open up some cards.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U138	Thank you. I have expressed my opinion in the associations and forums that are shaping the politics of our Estonian state today.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U139	Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U140	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns the chaplain. First of all, can you name the chaplains for all the duties? If you don't, why don't you generalize? Which of these tasks could be performed by a professional psychologist, is it baptism, is it a funeral? Since I still have time to ask a question, I ask what happens to fired or concentrated chaplains. Will there be a new article on the Estonian labour market called "freelance clergyman"?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U141	Thank you. Yes, I have to admit, I really have not been familiar with the chaplain's duties and job descriptions. But as far as I know, the church is separate from the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U142	Raivo Tamm.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U143	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Well, we're gonna have to rely on rumours here. It has been heard that these cuts, orchestras and chaplains are still part of the iceberg. Now we also heard of the idea of losing some military attaché seats. At the moment, we heard from you that this was, however, an idea concerning the Polish attaché. I want to ask whether the Polish attaché will be replaced by an attaché from another country, and if so, whether the orchestra was just an idea and, in fact, the orchestra will remain.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U144	Thank you for your question. As far as I know, the post of the Polish Defence Attaché will not be replaced by any other post in another country.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U145	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U146	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, It is, of course, a little regrettable that you are in such a role today and on a spike and that you will accept these questions, but it will accompany the profession. Let me ask you a little bit more. First of all, the cut itself is a beautiful animal and in ancient times he was an effective weapon. On 19 May, we discussed a development plan, R &amp; D, innovation and business development plan. To my surprise, and I say, to be shocked, I discovered that there was, unfortunately, nothing there about the military sciences, defence sciences and defence innovation. We also have the Defence Research Centre, we have the Academy of the Defence Forces. Shouldn't you be watching what they're doing here? Well, that wasn't justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U147	Thank you for that question. I had a meeting last week with the leadership of Tallinn University of Technology, or TalTech. We had a discussion on how it is possible, or rather what they are offering for cooperation with the Ministry of Defence, the Academy of Defence and, of course, the Defence Research Centre, about everything that is in the Ministry of Defence's domain. We agreed that in the coming weeks, the Ministry of Defence will provide feedback on how and how R &amp; D cooperation will continue in the military field with TalTech.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U148	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U149	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Yesterday, the Riigikogu had an inquiry into the order not to wear the uniform of the Defence Forces. Please tell us what this legislation is, what is the military rule under which such orders may be given to subordinates. As we know, let's say, any commanding officer must be lawful. But if he's not legal, then it's an illegal order that's being held accountable for. Since this issue has been largely yummed here and there, please state the name of the norm (paragraph, paragraph), which gave the right to give such an order.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U150	Thank you, good name, for this question. Well, the rule of wearing a form isn't what's behind it. But since you want the exact basis, the point, the comma and the paragraph, I'll give it to you in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U151	Aivar Chef, please! Let's go to the next question. Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U152	Dear Minister, I spent years in my previous life at the General Staff of the Defence League. Believe me, officers of the Defence Forces, including the Chiefs of the Defence League and some of the Chiefs of Staff, sometimes have not understood the nature of the Defence League, its voluntary nature. Now you said that some of the tasks of the General Staff of the Defence League will go to the General Staff of the Defence Forces. Can you tell me which departments, what capabilities are we talking about going over to the Defence Forces? Are you convinced that this will not have the opposite effect on voluntary national defence?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U153	Thank you for this question. After all, we cannot talk about the armed forces in active service, who work in the Defence League, volunteers. They're employees. Point one. Point two is that this proposal came from the Chief of the Defence League and the Commander of the Defence Forces, together they have discussed it. Which departments, the departments exactly, unfortunately, I owe you an answer. But I can clarify it and send it to you in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U154	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U155	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, We have heard in this Chamber today that the Minister is not lying, but that the Minister is generalising that these have not been decisions, but that the idea that 2.0 is greater than 2.3 is that the sale of the Port of Mine is hypothetically planned. That is why my question is whether, at the end of the day, our defence forces will not become hypothetical because of the attitude you have shown us in this Chamber today.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U156	I am very clearly convinced that the Estonian Defence Forces are capable of fighting and ready to defend Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U157	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U158	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I'm an old border guard who used to deal with units, border guards. We were trained by the Finns and this was a strong element in national defence. At the time, you were in politics when the border guard's inside units and military service were lost. It was also a big hit for national defence. Now you're back in the company that's weakening or destroying national defence like a little bit. I don't know how to think about this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U159	Thank you for your question. It's very difficult for me to answer in this key. I've said today, I think, many times, that I stand for national defence amplification. We have very different attitudes from very different world views, which does not mean that one party is weakening and the other party is not weakening. I very much believe that in this Chamber, regardless of the row in which a member of the Riigikogu sits, he thinks about it and works every day to ensure that the Estonian state is protected and preserved.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U160	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U161	Thank you for the floor. My second question concerns cuts. I ask whether the cuts concern defence forces outside Estonia, whether they are on missions or in other structural units.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U162	Thank you for your question. As far as I know, missions are the area where we can be in the international picture. We can show that Estonia makes a solidarity contribution to the peace of the world with other countries, regardless of where it is located. In the case of missions, there's nothing planned to be moved from anywhere. With regard to others, on various individual missions, such as active troops somewhere in headquarters, I do not dare to say at the moment that they are absolutely not concerned. Maybe there's one of them somewhere, but I can give you an answer in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U163	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U164	Thank you. Good Secretary of Defense! From your previous answer, when I asked you if you trusted the Prime Minister, who actually is responsible for all these cuts in the administration of absolutely all ministers, we learned that you do not have authority in the government. An authorship that will ensure that you are able to defend your area of administration, which is linked to the security of our country. If you cannot explain in the government how our security situation has changed recently and what needs to be done in order to strengthen our defence capabilities and to ensure that cuts in the field of defence will certainly not do so, yes, today's mistrust is very relevant. Why don't you make that decision and step down so somebody more capable can take over this job?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U165	Yes, unfortunately, it is not for you alone to decide whether or not I resign. This is decided by the Grand Chamber of the Riigikogu. Secondly, I have also mentioned this several times today that defence has been the only area in which the budget will increase in 2022, according to today's plans. If you value it as my weakness, it's your right.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U166	Helir-Valdor Seeder has a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U167	Thank you. I have a procedural question because the Secretary of Defense has claimed to the big hall that whether or not he resigns will decide the big hall. This cannot be decided by the great hall. The great hall can decide whether we will express a mistrust or not to express a mistrust to the Minister, but whether or not he will decide to resign, it is up to him to decide. This is a very important procedural remark that the members of the Riigikogu would know this in the large hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U168	That's right, yeah. The Minister can get rid of his office in three ways: the Prime Minister will let go, he will resign himself or the Chamber of Riigikogu will let go. Of course, you can call the party back. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U169	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! I'm gonna take care of one thing you snapped at me yesterday when you answered the question. That is why, as Minister of the Interior, I did not speed up the process of building the eastern border. I'm sorry, in my time, we found the money, arranged a deal and started building the control line. It's still going on. I was happy to read that this money would not be torn down, but that it would continue to be built. So please don't incriminate me with things I'm not responsible for. This, by the way, shows how open-mouthed you're lying. But I come to the question and the question is very simple. Listening to your problem there and to brief answers, which are often incompetent and vulgar, it is quite clear to me that you should now volunteer to preach to us from this remote control: I resign and hand over the office to someone who, with a clear voice, stands up for the field and does not trust those who drive flies to their heads and actually mix it with standing up for the field.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U170	Thank you for your views. If you want me to speak with a clearer voice, I can speak with a louder voice. Yes, Mart Helme has set an example for me: not a step backwards, just a step forward. Especially when he's been on the remote as a minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U171	Peter Ernitsa has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U172	I have a procedural question. Since we decided that more than one o'clock we are not discussing things here today, does this mean that the Minister of Defence will continue to grill tomorrow day and the Minister of Defence will have such a sleepless night, or will we somehow change the agenda, [working hours], and we will continue grilling?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U173	No, it doesn't mean that. Today's item will be closed, whether it is one o'clock or not. With a statement of confidence, we're gonna be done today, no matter what.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U174	Can I give you a reply?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U175	Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U176	I really appreciate Peter Ernits worrying about me.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U177	But there is another procedural question that needs to be answered before the next question. Kalle Grünthal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U178	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to know from you and your good advisors that if this thing now stretches over two o'clock, I will have two meetings of the Commission and how we will act. There can't be two places at once.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U179	That's it. In the Rules of Procedure of our Riigikogu, there are some such places that there is no proper way to act. Then it must be decided which is more important, whether voting in this Chamber or being present in the Commission. This must be decided by both coalition and opposition ambassadors. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U180	Thank you, Mr President. Good mistrust! I did not receive an answer to my previous question, which is why I have reason to conclude that no analysis of the justification of the cuts was carried out and no analysis of the effects was carried out. But here's my question. Has an analysis been carried out of the impact of cuts on our allies, especially in the light of what we ourselves say all the time that we need help, but at the same time we are cutting our defence costs? I'd ask for an answer!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U181	Thank you for your question. But I say that, compared to the previous government coalition, no other coalition will be able to damage allied relations as much as this coalition did.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U182	Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U183	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. To my previous question, you briefly answered that, as far as you know, the country and the church are separated. It's true, but it's still about the chaplain. Archbishop Urmas Viilma wrote a long-range article in the Estonian Church on 19 May, which he concluded with the words: " Minimising the activities of the chaplain service of the Defence Forces may pose a long-term threat not only to the members of the Defence Forces, but even to the security of Estonia. " He dares to draw a parallel with the national level. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U184	We have a democratic society, a free country, everyone can guess what they think.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U185	Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U186	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! I asked before about the Polish defence Attaché, I didn't get a good answer. If it was only the idea of losing this place and the Estonian defence Attaché in Poland will remain, then my question is whether the place of the Estonian defence Attaché in Russia or Ukraine or somewhere else will be lost in another country instead.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U187	They won't lose it in another country instead of him.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U188	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U189	Thank you, Minister. Your answers today are so laconic, skinny and stumpy. The only thing left to be amazed at is your curfew. But you said that the state and the church were separated, and you explained why the caplanade service was laid off and dismantled from the Defence Forces. So, so far, have all of the previous governments in which the Reform Party has participated, and you, albeit in the position of another minister, acted wrong when you considered it important for years and financed it? Is it really a misguided use of public money, and now we are finally making a sensible and correct decision and separating the country from the church? Secondly, Mr Aab and the Minister of Culture have both been critical of these cuts, at least they have expressed their criticism in the media and said that you should reconsider them. Did they also express their opinion in the government when discussing the country's budgetary strategy and how they acted?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U190	Thank you for your question. Saving operating costs was a consensual decision of the government. This means that the ministers you mentioned also agreed with this in exactly the same way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U191	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U192	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I've praised you a couple of times in this room for being an officer and being straight-handed. Today, with regret, I must say that you have taken over the Kaja Kallas style, who will first accuse the EKRE of all seven deadly sins, I mean the current criticisms made to Mart Helme. Try not to copy people who are not the best. But I'll come to the question. As I was told, I was asking about the uniform of the Defence Forces. You said you'd send me the answer in writing. It's causing another problem. Have you really not examined this issue in such detail? Are you going to initiate some kind of procedure, an investigation, if that is still possible for you on this matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U193	Thank you for your question. In the event of an offence, of course, an investigation will be initiated.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U194	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U195	Good manager! Good minister! I read that on 1 June at the press conference you said that defence costs will be reduced by 114 million euros compared to the current National Defence Development Plan and the Defence Investment Programme over the next four years. I have an important subject of my own, apart from the Defence Forces, it's a question of entrepreneurship and everything else. At the moment, due to the fact that military intelligence would function well, there has been a problem in Ida-Virumaa that it has not been possible to install windmills. The previous coalition agreed to find the means, and it was also included in the RES calculations that the defence forces would have the means to install radars there. Now that financial investment funds are falling in the next few years, are there or are there no investments in radars?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U196	Thank you for that question. I am pleased to say that not only will this radar capability be replaced there, but there will also be passive radars in the coming years, which will create those areas in Estonia where wind farms can be set up. It's coming up, it's all growing radar capability.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U197	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U198	Oops! Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. It's now... I don't know if the notebook or what pushed the question, but I guess I need to ask. I'll ask you that then. I understand there are cuts in the government. It's very difficult to find someone who would say, you know, I'd start by cutting myself first. Well, thinking of ministerial officials and the inefficiency that is often unpopular among the public. Something is still found somewhere further away, which seems irrelevant to the core tasks, it is either an education grant or an orchestra or a chaplain, and it will then be cut somewhere further away, wishing to push it away. And then, when someone screams really loud, the orchestra is lifted under the museum, some other solution will be found, so that no real savings will be achieved. It's a round game. Yesterday, we heard from this remote unit that although economic growth is significantly better, taxes are coming, the Minister does not intend to revisit the advocacy grant cut, even if the money comes for it. How's the defense? If now taxes are received much better...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U199	Time, Riina!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U200	...are these orchestras and chaplains really coming back, or aren't you planning on reconsidering the death sentences?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U201	Thank you for that question. You stressed in your question that when a cut is started, you should start with yourself. I started with myself, like shipping tickets and plane tickets, when I drive home this weekend, I pay out of my own pocket, not in a public car, usually paying for it myself. Secondly, the Ministry of Defence started with itself in exactly the same way, operating costs were well saved and reviewed in the same way as personnel. In the area of the Ministry of Defence, there are other institutions in addition to the Defence Forces, and in particular the head of each institution is responsible for the extent to which he considers that operational costs can be saved. You think the Minister is so capable that he can go to all levels and say whether one position is important in this area or not. I'm very afraid that although some may be just as capable in this hall, in general people are not so capable. That is why there are different leaders at different levels who are responsible for things.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U202	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U203	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Kalle, you're a very nice person, honestly, and you were a very good co-worker. But as you can see, today we're not talking about you as a person. We're talking about the position you're in. This leads to these questions and has a motion of censure on the part of my fellow Members. You said a quick, decent homework. Well, I don't think so. Minister of Social Security Signe Riisalo has said that the chaplain or those workers, the hingekeepers who are in nursing homes, are not affected, mental health is at risk and all that. You chose the orchestra and the chaplain. In fact, it is very sad to hear that you insist on it not only by you, but also by the head of government and other ministers, that previous governments have done crap, led the country to a disadvantage, and now have to be cut. Could it not have been a joint decision, however, rather than just sending out a message immediately that a quick and decent homework? Are you actually happy that this happened?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U204	Thank you. Of course, every minister is responsible for his words and actions. So am I. Each minister has political responsibility and responsibility for the position of minister. Everyone also runs his ministry largely as a result of what his personality qualities are. There have been quite a few times here today that I have straight and clear answers. I'm that person. I don't like it, and it's not normal for me to come in here and mess around. I'll tell you what it's like. And that's the way it is. I can't go in charge of the Defence Forces instead of the Commander of the Defence Forces. I can't go in charge of the defence resources instead of the head of the Defence Resources Agency. It's his responsibility. You understand that. Yeah, I understand it's politics.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U205	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U206	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! Of course, we could take a humorous claim that if previously planned defence budgets are reduced and cut, this is a major step forward and defence capabilities improve and develop. I'm afraid there's nothing funny about it. This is about our security and our independence. But I'd like to ask you about the Port of Mine. It's got tens of millions in it. Now it's been said that the government is planning to sell it much cheaper, with 20 million dollars. The construction of a new port here has had a wide variety of estimates, from 80 million to 200 million, which comes from the absolutely defence budget. What's the plan? There has been no clear answer as to whether or not to be sold.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U207	Thank you for your question. This decision must be on the table in the autumn when an analysis has been made during the ten-year preparation of the National Defence Development Plan. It must be ready by 1 September. But you probably know that, too, because you certainly have a friendship in the Defence Forces and the Navy that the Port of Mine, in order to be able to receive with its infrastructure the ships that it actually needs to receive, will need tens of millions of euros to be reconstructed in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U208	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U209	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, good Kalle! I respect you very much as a person, and that is why it is very surprising why you are making cuts, which result in the aggregation of dozens of people, and which actually weaken Estonia's defence capabilities. Here's my question. Are you doing this because you are convinced of these cuts yourself, or are you only doing this because it's a government lead? Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U210	Thank you. Good Jaak, can you advise me that if there are operating costs consisting of economic and human resources costs, how can this sum be raised? Point one. Point two is this, using the words of President Ilves: what has brought us here will not take us forward in this form. We need to make some changes. In order for us to be able to contribute more to real defense, we have to do things a little differently. This is also one of the key points.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U211	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U212	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! You guys said you weren't talking shit around here. But my question... What's the question, there's no answer to the questions here, so we'll have to guess for ourselves and put these lines together here. I get the impression that you were very pleased to answer your question yesterday. You obviously found the ball must have been killed, the problem if it didn't. Why am I jumping to that conclusion? Yesterday they asked about the Defence League, and today you come and still say you weren't there. First, your own responsibility. So, who's being laid off in the Defence League? You say you don't know, you haven't been there, you don't know what's in charge there, and you haven't even prepared for this night or in the meantime. Do you really have everything in your field?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U213	I understand that a member of the Riigikogu is not obliged to listen to all the responses of the waitress. But if you look through the verbatim, you'll see that I answered that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U214	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U215	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You're gonna say here that you're not gonna get involved in where you're being clipped, and you're gonna tell me you're not gonna lose your defense. However, it has already happened that the budget for exercises in the Defence Union is being reduced, people who actually support volunteers are planned to be made redundant so that they can come, practice and exercise at all. All this process is happening. In fact, the state's defence capacity is literally being reduced. Yes, maybe the development of some of the capabilities that are planned will not be combined, but what concerns all people, and what also affects people's activities, will be reduced. This is your choice as Commander of the Defence Forces, but do you approve of this choice?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U216	I can trust the Commander of the Defence Forces in my proposals. The proposals he has made, and I have changed, that I have changed. I haven't changed that decision today, so it's that decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U217	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U218	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I will repeat the key question at the end of my previous question. If tax receipts improve, and now it seems more to be coming into the budget than the RES was planned, will you give up cuts and, in fact, orchestras and chaplains can stay in place?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U219	Well, it seems to me that you may have misunderstood that way. The orchestra isn't going anywhere. The orchestra is moving under the Defence Forces under the Ministry of Defense. It's gonna stay. [[A voice from the hall.]] When it comes to improving the situation, we are speaking hypothetically, I have said many times today that I stand firm for budgetary resources to grow in Estonia's national defence, military defence and not only military defence, I also stand up for internal security to be in a better position. There's only one thing we're talking about here today, isn't it? It's about military protection. Let us also take a deep look at the Ministry of the Interior. There are several former Home Affairs Ministers here, but it's kind of forgotten, it's not politically interesting or sensible right now. Security is a whole, both internal and external. I see it as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U220	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U221	Thank you. It is no secret to us that Estonia's defence spending in NATO is one of the lowest, which because we have been very exemplary and good, we have met this 2% requirement considerably better than most of our allies. But it is no secret that our allies have repeatedly emphasised that this is not enough, we must contribute significantly more, all our shortcomings, all our gaps in ability to fill: mid-earth air control, armoured capabilities, etc. And it won't come. What face do you look at them with? And another thing. You said the cuts were consensual in the government, you kindly agreed. Please describe this process. Did you really fight it, and as a brave man, you put your fist on the table, saying that our defence, security and independence are not the cause?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U222	Thank you for your question. I usually, especially when there's a wider circle, don't punch a table with a fist. I'll talk calmly. Point one. Item 2 is that 2021 has a defence budget of 646 million, and it will be 712,3 million in 2022. Why are you giving up? That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U223	Ladies and gentlemen, Firstly, Jürgen Ligi has a procedural question and then we need to have a vote, because the Isamaa Group has proposed to extend today's sitting until the agenda is exhausted. I'll give you an explanation. This item will be dealt with to the end, regardless of the decision to extend the sitting. If we decide to extend the sitting, we will take the next item on today's agenda until two o'clock. But first, Jürgen Ligi's procedural question. Oh, he's already off. In that case, we will go to the vote to decide whether or not we are extending the sitting today. Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, I'll explain the procedure. We will discuss the motion of confidence to the end in any case, we will discuss the item to the end in any case, regardless of whether it is over one o'clock or not, even if it is over two. We have received a proposal from the Isamaa Group to extend the sitting until the agenda is exhausted, in other words, the Isamaa Group would like to continue with the existing agenda until 2 a.m. after the point of distrust has been dealt with. Whether we do this mistrust before 2:00 or not, I can't tell you right now. But the request has come from the group, and that is what we must vote on. Hanno Pevkur has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U224	Yeah, thanks! Indeed, the law says that the vote of censure does not need any extension or anything, since we are going to finish it in any case, it is § 64 (3) if I remember [right] from the head. We also have an IPU discussion planned today. This means that, in order to discuss the IPU, we cannot extend the sitting, otherwise we will not have the IPU delegation approved. My sincere request would be for the Patriotic Union to withdraw its request, but if it is now put to the vote, then we must vote through it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U225	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U226	Thank you. No, we think that we should work as on the agenda as far as possible, as we have planned, and continue this traditional practice, as we have done here repeatedly and repeatedly, that if the scheduled agenda is not over at one o'clock, then we will work until 2:00. That is our point, whether or not the mistrust process is over by then. The agenda is long, so we try to work intensively and reasonably until 2:00 p.m. And another remark for the record: The Fatherland Union is history, but the Fatherland is and the Fatherland is eternal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U227	Okay. I'm sorry! Yes, I understand your request. Even if we are done with this item, you would like to proceed with the agenda. That is why I am putting it to the vote. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U228	The compromise could be this, I say, having listened to the defence minister's answers, which has given a great deal of thought to the coalition ambassadors as well, so that perhaps the motion of censure may be interrupted after questions, so that we can think about and return to the motion of censure tomorrow.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U229	That is not what our Rules of Procedure provide for. But the procedural questions are over. Once again, I will put to the vote the proposal of the Isamaa Group to extend today's sitting until 14 o'clock or until the agenda is exhausted. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U230	The proposal was supported by 12 delegates, with 63 against. The proposal was not supported and the sitting would not be renewed. This means that we will only go to the end with the item that is currently under way, i.e. a motion of distrust, and it will last until we have reached the vote. Please, Minister, the remote again! I would add that if we go over two with the current item on the agenda, the work of the committees will not start at 2:00. Commissions don't start until the big hall is finished. Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U231	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Kalle! A number of colleagues here had questions about the Defence League, if this cut of 40 people were to be accomplished. Here's my question. The Defence League is facing considerable difficulties in manning and developing militias. If this cut is implemented, how would it affect the capabilities of the militias?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U232	Thank you. If that's okay, I'll give you a written answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U233	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U234	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! I am convinced that the government is also familiar with some economic indicators. There is no news that, surprisingly, GDP in the first quarter rose by 5.4% compared to last year. For example, in the absolute number of Latvians, Estonia's GDP is higher, while they can afford this capacity. We also know that after the third quarter, we will have a double-digit economic growth. With this new information, we are said to have to cut down because this cut-off is a new situation. Some ministers promise to review their area of responsibility, and you continue to hold... What kind of pod do you have against the Defence League?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U235	Thank you. I don't have any pod against the Defence League, I really respect their actions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U236	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U237	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. As many people are known to be laid off, the question arises as to who will do the work they did. Does this mean an increase in the workload in the Defence Forces, the Defence League and the Ministry of Defence, or is there actually some kind of cutbacks and no more things being done? Perhaps you could simply describe the reasons behind these cuts?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U238	Thank you. The work will be organised around.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U239	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U240	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of Defense! The Ministry of Defence's statement on Friday says that for four years the Ministry of Defence's administration will save an estimated EUR 71 million, moving somewhat slower in the development of defence capabilities. You wrote the following lines about the defensive cuts last autumn: "It is particularly irresponsible to give such messages now that the international situation does not even allow us to think about reducing defence spending. If the Kremlin is likely to be pleased with such signals, they will only damage the reputation and credibility of the Estonian state, not to mention cooperation, in the eyes of our allies. " Are you still in those words today, considering that your actions have, unfortunately, become the basis of the greatest criticism of your autumn words?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U241	Good Urmas! These words were spoken in a context where the previous government coalition discussed a 50 million reduction in the defence budget. Today we are in a situation where the budget of 646 million this year will rise to EUR 712.3 million by next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U242	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U243	Mr. Secretary of Defense! I wanted to be more specific about the chaplain service. When you began to answer the question posed by Üllar Saaremäe, you said that you did not know exactly what the content of their work was. Now I have the question: how dare you and you want to cut something that you have not discovered?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U244	Thank you. The Kaplan Service is a member of the Defence Forces and the Commander of the Defence Forces decides what is or is not part of it and comes to the Minister of Defence with this proposal. At least one chaplain in the Defence Forces and at least one chaplain in the Defence League will continue in the Kaplan Service.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U245	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U246	Thank you, Mr President. Good Secretary of Defense! Well, these messages have still been relatively confusing during this period, especially in the last few weeks and in the last month since the adoption of the country's budget strategy until today, you have come out of your mouth. I think it might be quite appropriate and good to clarify here what cuts you are actually planning to make in the near future. You've been talking about orchestras at some point, then you say no, no, orchestras aren't going anywhere, they're putting something together somewhere, it's moving from one structural unit to another. In the case of Kaplan's service, in response to Viktoria Ladynskaja, you also said that no, no, no, there's somebody staying there, isn't there. There have been hundreds of active military personnel leaving somewhere, both in the Defence League and in the Defence Forces themselves. Perhaps you will give Members a more detailed overview of what you intend to do in the near future. What cuts are you planning to make over the next four years? You have such confusing messages, and it really seems that, frankly, you already have a hard time understanding them. Would you be so kind!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U247	Thank you, good Sven, for this question. The savings are made in operating costs, i.e. economic and personnel costs. So, under the current agreement, two years, i.e. the period 2022 to 2023, need to keep economic and human resources costs at this level, i.e. 5% savings, we or the next coalition will be able to move in the right direction. Plus next year's defense budget is gonna grow. This is, in my opinion, a major step, compared to other areas, which have been achieved in the field of defence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U248	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U249	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. What is there to deny, on this whole debate, is that you have not been able to defend your area excessively well in terms of budget. But my question is about your attitude as a member of the cabinet. After all, as a member of the cabinet, you have also signed, agreed that we are going to make further cuts during this time of crisis. All the experience to date says that, unfortunately, inequalities and injustices tend to increase during the crisis. The role of the government should be to reduce it, to level it out, but our government is putting it down. Among other things, you have signed up for half the money being cut off from the activities of interest. The municipality of Saaremaa must find more than EUR 200000 if it wants to continue to be able to participate in the activities of interest for all children who have been there before. The defense will also decrease because some of them will no longer be able to work out where they used to be, not to mention that the talents will not be developed. How do you justify this because you have signed the government's decision to amplify the negative effects of the crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U250	I guess I signed different government agreements like you, being in the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U251	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U252	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. What is your position on how you look to the future? Would you be willing to restore the tasks of the border guard during the war and restore the internal units of the border guard, which is a very effective and important matter for national defence?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U253	Thank you for your question. Restoring the wartime assignments is on our table. We'll discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U254	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U255	Thank you. Dear Minister of Defence! In response to Sven Sester, you said that the cuts concern personnel and economic costs. But I'm still more interested in what relates to cutting down on the development of military capabilities. June 4 Ministry of Defence's statement makes it clear that we are going to move on and pay attention! just a little bit more slowly, the end of the pressure in the direction of achieving the goals of defence capability planned in the 10-year National Defence Development Plan: development of both brigades, protection of the sea, protection of the land on the basis of the Defence League, and now my focus, attention and attention. My question is very clear: what capabilities, in addition to those mentioned in the open list, but also which capabilities given in the open list are going to have a lower target or a missed development in the next four years?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U256	Thank you, good questioner! By 1 September, things will be clear when the ten-year development plan for national defence has been presented to the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U257	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U258	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Well, at least there's some things that we've learned. If, in the meantime, there was a debate about whether or not to be clipped, then now we've been arguing about this process. Clearly, 5%, as you yourself said, will be cut in the near future in terms of management costs and possible staff costs. Now I have the following question. But what are the costs? That's actually the problem we've been talking about here. The question is whether these costs should be incurred and, second, what are the priorities to which they will be allocated. Why don't you try to give Parliament a clearer answer? After all, you have a plan of your own, which costs you want to spend in the near future within 5%. So let's not talk about whether you're cutting or not, we've had this argument. You're cutting. The question is, what are you cutting? Why don't you give me a closer look, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U259	Thank you, good questioner! We're moving from one pocket to another. We save on daily expenses, perhaps to boost investment. If you want a more detailed list, I'm ready to answer you in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U260	So, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that the questions have run out. Thank you, Minister. Now is the time to move on to the negotiations. The first to speak is the representatives of the group whose members have initiated a vote of distrust. Ah! Urmas Reinsalu has a procedural question first. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U261	You said the questions were over. Not at all. We have a lot of questions, because neither did we get answers to the questions that were asked. I would ask the President of the sitting to correct this wording in the interests of the minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U262	No further questions have been written. We can go to the negotiations. Only the representatives of the political groups can participate in the negotiations. The first to speak is the representatives of the political groups whose members have initiated a vote of distrust. First Urmas Reinsalu. Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U263	Thank you. Honourable representative of the people! The expression of distrust by the opposition is our weapon to demonstrate our protest in Parliament against what the government intends to do. He's going to savagely cut defense expenses. The coalition agreement of the new government, the government that took office, states that national defence funding will continue at the level foreseen in the existing plans. It was not yet possible to dry the ink in the mandate that sought Parliament's trust in this government when it was set to break it. The story, orwellian, is that cutting is not a cut-off and, in fact, when money is taken away, military powers are growing, it is actually a smearing of the servant and a lie of the slave. National defence is not a priority for this government in the current security situation. This situation, where we are moving to a slower pace in developing our military capabilities, as recognised by the Ministry of Defence on 4 June, does not correspond to the security interests of Estonia. The Commander of the Defence Forces, as the highest military adviser to the government, has made clear from this very Parliamentary speaking chair on 23 March. a what the plan of the new government really means. In 2024 and 2025, the new government plans to bring national defence costs to 2.02% of GDP. I quote the Commander of the Defence Forces: "If the cost of defence is estimated to be 2%, we are less dangerous for the opponent today and we must reduce the Defence Forces. " In fact, we see that this is what is happening both in reducing the Defence Forces' personnel in the Ministry of Defence area by 270 people and in developing military capabilities that are important to us. The question is, why is this being done? It is not because the budget is decreasing that we are talking about cuts. That's a lie. We all know that. The website of the Ministry of Finance contains the budget volume for the following year. This is half a billion euros larger than planned, without taking into account the additional budget, compared to this year's budget. This money is being channelled into other areas. Here was the most marked example of the construction of the new building of the Ministry of the Environment. That we protect ourselves from Putin, his unfathomable, imperialist and aggressive activities with the great log house of the Ministry of the Environment. No, this is definitely not in the interests of our national defence. These authorities' houses may be delayed in the future. According to the budgetary strategy of the Estonian state, Russia does not organise its own potentially dangerous actions towards neighbouring countries. That's a fact. It is not the case that we agree to foresee cuts in the country's budget strategy, and then it is said in the Kremlin that well, we will postpone a few years, we will then expect you to shape plans for the development of defence capabilities at a slower pace. It is short-sighted and [not] responsible behaviour and policy. This policy cannot be approved. I am very sorry that Defence Minister Kalle Laane has come into a situation where he is forced to implement this government policy. Here too, in the Riigikogu's speech chair, he repeatedly emphasised, and I believe his words that he does not support the cuts in himself, and he believes that defence costs should increase rather than cut them. How, then, has this situation come about, that we have a minister of sacrifice, and that our country's defenses have been sacrificed? Who is really responsible for this? State governance is a responsibility, state governance is standing up for this area if you have taken an oath as a member of the government to protect this area. In the current situation, we can say for all other expenditures that they can be timed, they can be organised according to financial abilities, but state independence, national security is a prerequisite for all other activities and for state creation. Indeed, the words of the Minister for Defence, which he said when he was in opposition, when it was about cutting the defence budget last autumn, are particularly dramatic or ironic, and now, like the sword of the Kääpa River of Kalevipoeg, have turned against him. I would point out: "It is particularly irresponsible to give such messages now that the international situation does not even allow us to think about reducing defence spending. If the Kremlin is likely to be pleased with such signals, they will only damage the reputation and credibility of the Estonian state, not to mention cooperation, in the eyes of our allies. " I believe this Kalle Laanet, a good minister who wrote these lines last fall. I think he was sincere in his statement. But the question is, how has this government, which in the coalition agreement promised that the funding of the existing schemes would continue, brutally turned its back on it? If this Parliament fails, it will set an extremely dangerous precedent for political action to go against defence expenditure. We must also bear in mind the future of Estonia. After this government, the next governments will come, life will evolve, but we must not create such a precedent that cuts in the defence plans that have been approved so far will be under way. Last week, the Isamaa Group based its proposal on giving the government time to make corrections and retreat from its clear slogan on cutting defence costs. Regrettably, this did not happen last week. Therefore, in consultation with the other opposition forces, we have chosen a higher form of protest, for which there is a motion of distrust in parliamentary democracy. Good friends! I call on all those Members who think for a moment about daily political confrontations and fighting. Our friends and allies are watching this decision that we are going to the defense costs. I would remind you that it was precisely at the end of last year that the United States gave its budget to the Baltic States the greatest security aid in history. When the United States Congress gave it, it also knew that the Baltic States would abide by their word concerning the defence commitments that have been made. It is monitored by our allies and equally monitored by potential opponents. The message of the Fatherland is clear: it is a blow to the back of the Estonian national defence that this government is planning. We cannot support the Minister of Defence such a political agenda. We regret to say that all the rhetoric that has actually happened and what has happened is so dim, so vague and controversial. Today's answers to the questions have deepened the confusion.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U264	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U265	As far as I am concerned, we are in the greatest national defence crisis since joining NATO.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U266	Urmas, your three minutes are up.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U267	I'll give you another quote. Where is our President of the Republic, why has the National Defence Council not gathered to discuss such matters? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U268	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are sticking to the time, we have five minutes and we have three more minutes. That's the rules of procedure. Please, Leo Kunnas!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U269	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U270	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U271	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Kalle! Here we are. It's August 8th, I'll fix it: May 8th. (Voice from the floor: "June. ") June. On 23 March we were here and held a debate on a very important national issue. We did not hold any heated debate here, but we made important speeches where we all stressed that national defence was very important. At that time, the government was actually close to approving the new development plan. This is the development plan 2021-2030, which sets out the following figures: the share of the base level of defence expenditure in GDP, baseline 2021 2.29%, exchange 2024 2,23% and the 2030 target also 2,23%. This is the basis on which the new approved development plan was built. Unfortunately, we are in a position that this development plan has not been approved or will probably not be approved before autumn. We've come up with a new RES. I'm quoting again. On page 98, "State Budget Strategy 2022 2025 and Stability Programme 2021', Table 82, rows 7 and 8. Real 7 is the total cost of defence according to the NATO method, i.e. the budget, and row 8 is the percentage of GDP. It says here that the 2021-year-old achieved by the previous government is 645.5 million, or 2.27% of GDP, resulting from the increase in GDP. Next year it will be 704.9 million and 2.31% of GDP, i.e. a significant increase, but not such a big increase, i.e. not 721 million, which was recorded in the previous RES. Keep going. 2023 is 688.3 million and 2.14%, 2024 is 680.5 million and 2.02%, and 2025 is 712 million and 2.02%. So this 2,23% is going to be 2.02%, which is a very big difference. Here was the question of what is the priority of the current government. It is clear that the budgetary balance is the priority. It's supreme, and it's more important than anything. This is the decision of the Prime Minister, and it is the decision of the Minister for Finance. Can we make this decision in the current security situation? I'll be honest with you, I'm not. In the current security situation, we will not be able to make cuts for a cent, either in military defence or in internal defence. That is a very clear understanding. In this situation, good Kalle, what chances have you had? The first possibility is that you have certainly tried to explain to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance that this is not a good decision, let us not do so, but these explanations have not borne fruit. The next things you can do. If I was in your position as Secretary of Defense in a government that would make such decisions in such a security situation, then I wouldn't have a lot of other options than resignation. I've been in this situation once in my life, in 2007, when I had to decide if I was going to do any things that were basically unacceptable to me, somehow, with my teeth crossed, or I'm not going to do them, and basically I'm not going to do them. These decisions are different. But the message of the Conservative People's Party is very clear right now. In this security situation, we cannot make such decisions, nor can we draw up a new development plan with a base level of 2.02% of GDP; our proposal was to raise it to 2.6% of GDP, which we did in the framework of the 2035 strategy, and it was voted down. Of course, it would mean borrowing around 5% of GDP, which is a large amount. But I'd say, in fact, we're actually done with all kinds of defense debate. Because what are we debating? Are we debating that someone said something bad and how it worked, or are we debating what decisions we make and how these decisions affect military defence? Of course, it is not possible to accommodate any new capabilities in 2.02%. It doesn't fit midland anti-aircraft, it doesn't fit tanks, it doesn't even fit to keep up current capabilities in the amount that is. By 2,23% we'd do it so we don't have to cut anything or cut what we're already doing. The clear aim of our motion of censure is that the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance would change their decisions by autumn, so that this proportional cut in the field of defence and internal defence would simply be removed. There is no point in discussing what is a better or worse chance of death. In the current security situation, these cuts cannot simply be made. This is our message, and I hope it arrives. It's a matter of time before our allies start asking questions. President Biden is no different than President Trump. Everyone's asking. The United States is taking massive debt to finance national defence. If they were to go the same way now that, well, we are going to balance the budget, they should, for example, eliminate the entire American European command. That's not gonna happen. The British don't think that well, we can't finance a battle group either. Lithuanians and Poles raise to 2.5%. The Swedes and Norwegians have rejected their development plans because they have not been sufficient. Here are your reference moments. In the current situation, we simply have not had a second chance than to give this signal to the government that this cannot go on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U272	Thank you. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U273	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. We are discussing today the mistrust of the Minister of Defence. In fact, we should discuss the mistrust of this government as a whole. The Secretary of Defense is one of those who has signed this cut in his office, just like all the other ministers in one way or another. The Minister of Defence has either been honest enough or simple enough or has not managed to manage the field so well, but the Minister of Defence has indeed been the first or one of the first to have been made public. The Commander of the Defence Forces has made them public one by one. And what the Minister has had to do with his criticisms (or today it has to be said that for the bullets of criticism or for the crowns of criticism) for a long time, as one of the few government ministers, because possible cuts in his area, or at least some of these possible cuts, have received public attention. They've been stupid cuts. In fact, the Commander of the Defence Forces has managed to make wooden and red everything that the members of the government couldn't make clear in the government. The talk that we have heard, when the government has justified these cuts, is that the state apparatus has grown up, we should cut this bureaucracy and increased operating costs, have solidarity with the private sector. But let's see what's being cut. Where are the bureaucrats? Where's the bloated state machine? There are defense costs, orchestras, children's activities, education. And most of what's going to be cut is still in the dark. We don't know what else is coming from there. There are no such mysterious bureaucrats anywhere, let alone what benefits the private sector if this solidarity is manifested by the loss of Estonia's defence capacity, that Estonian children are no longer part of the activities of interest, including the development of their physical abilities, not to mention their spiritual abilities. Estonian education will be more and more elitist because in higher education, the wallet will increasingly cost more, not your abilities. This weakens, among other things, our defence capabilities, but also our country as a whole. And what the government is doing... Let me quote from this remote again, because the person is up to date again. It is today, you can say, the only official candidate for president. Tarmo Finlande has long said very clearly that all crises have one thing: the rich are getting richer and the poor are becoming poorer. The task of the state is to reduce this polarisation, to balance this process. Our government's going down. All the cuts that are being made will actually increase inequality or, if not directly, at least injustice. It seems screamingly unfair what's being done. That is why today's government has satanicly chosen the wrong way, the opposite of what anyone who, in the perspective, is even more intelligently able to analyze what society needs. Unfortunately, the Minister of Defence is also one of the ministers in all this. And on the contrary, Kalle, what you said about this remote control, you're responsible for these things the same way I'm responsible for the things I did in the government. Yeah, I did in the government. In the government, I agreed with your party associates from the Reform Party and the Patriotic League to find 15 million more in children's activities. You're taking half of it, not to mention the many other decisions you're pushing on right now. Yes, I am prepared to take responsibility for this, but you must also understand what your responsibility as government ministers is more broadly, not just in your area of responsibility. That is why we believe that a member of the government, Mr Kalle Laane, has not done his job as well as he should. The Social Democrats will vote for this motion of distrust. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U274	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U275	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! The Riigikogu Reform Party Group trusts the government, the Minister of Defence, the Commander of the Defence Forces and the Defence Forces. Estonia's defence capabilities have been in a growing trend over time. This is because of realistic planning. This is done very thoroughly, seriously and in accordance with our capabilities. Already in the autumn, further discussions on the development of our defence are also awaited here in the Committee on National Defence. These discussions are seriously underway within the sector. Interim decisions to be taken in the Riigikogu on the topics and pieces of press information that have been heard in the debates and to shape censures on the run are downgraded parliamentary professionalism. Today's distrusters acknowledged the rational design and use of the budget in their speeches. Rationality is based on the perception of its ability. It is as if we have forgotten that we have been in a real crisis for over a year now. The COVID crisis has taken over 1,200 people away from us. Our society, our economy and our finances have been seriously damaged. Being ignorant and non-solidary in this situation with other areas of life, all of whom today have the task of finding savings, is not an appropriate recommendation for those who serve in the field of defence and for those who shape it. The Defence Forces are part of society, live with society and take solidarity to bear the difficulties of recovery from the crisis. Let us not undermine this. The defence budget is the only area that will grow next year. A visible increase in investment in the development of defence capabilities is a fact. At least 2% of GDP to national defence, plus resources for the allies' presence, and the defence investment programme are clear and firm. Less than half of NATO members can hold such a budgetary promise. National defence needs not a billion more promises from the previous coalition, but real money, which we are making today when we invest in defence. Is it a pity that operating costs are subject to cuts? Of course it's a shame. In all areas of life, it is a pity. But the country is strong when it's strong all its components. Even in difficult decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U276	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U277	Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, we support the continuation of the Minister today. We have a coalition agreement that we will continue to adhere to. We see no reason to change the minister; we consider it wrong to express a mistrust to a minister. Of course, trust in cuts is another blade. If we look at the growth of the first quarter today, it is 5.4%. It can be seen that even tourism is getting underfoot. We think that we can see at least the same level of economic growth in the second quarter. So, for our minister today, yes, it is conditional. We expect pointless cuts to be abandoned when drawing up the state budget. In politics, decisions can always be reviewed. That is the essence of the policy. The country's budgetary strategy can also be reviewed whenever circumstances change. Our advantage is our flexibility, taking into account our real economic situation and, consequently, drawing up our own economic policy. Dear Defence Forces, who are watching this debate today! You will now feel how unfair it is when the country chooses a policy of cut-off, no one will be left unscathed. When neoliberals come to power, public investment is always reduced. And, unfortunately, the field of defence is not separate from it either. If a policy of cut-off is chosen, everyone will be cut. The Centre Party has always said that cutting is not going to be rich. We always stand against cuts, whether in the field of defence, whether in the social system, whether in the education system or in culture, and we also stand still. Especially against the cuts that affect people. In today's economic situation, we think it is particularly important that our people have money to make their own investments. So that's what we stand for. We believe that with a minister as good as Kalle Laane, we will certainly come to an agreement on how to make a budget that will make Estonia actually grow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U278	The negotiations have been concluded, but now there are some procedural questions. Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U279	Thank you. I really do have a procedural question. You mentioned earlier that representatives of the political groups would get the floor in the negotiations. I wanted to ask which opposition party Oudekki Loone spoke today. May I ask you to clarify this question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U280	Yeah, I get the question. Oudekki Loone spoke on behalf of the middle group. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U281	My procedural question, too, is driven by the speech of Oudekki Loone. Oudekki Loone claimed that the Centre Party has always been, is today and will be against all kinds of cuts in the future. But I understand that the Centre Party supported cuts while in the government. Have I misunderstood something, or did Oudekki Loone represent a different group? Did he still represent the middle fraction? Can you confirm as chairman of the meeting?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U282	I can confirm. The name of Oudekki Loone is the letter "K." [[In the Laughing Hall.]] He is a member of the Central Party Group. I will not comment on the content of his speech. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U283	I have the same procedural question about Oudekki Loone. He was like a big animal friend, but he's just saying that the Centre Party is in favor of human cutbacks. Does this mean that animals need to be cut? [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U284	The negotiations are closed. The positions expressed in the course of the negotiations as chairman of the meeting do not have any reason or right to comment or to extend or clarify here. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now going to the vote. Here's the procedure. The Minister has been distrusted if the majority of the Riigikogu is in favour of the publication of censure. Yes, Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U285	No, I got ahead of myself. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U286	Understood. I am voting on the motion of censure on Minister Kalle Laanet, initiated by the Fatherland... Yeah. Kalle Grünthal has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U287	I don't know, maybe I'll start repeating myself, but I was on the other side of the house. I just happened to get here. Did the signal sound or didn't it sound? [[In the diner.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U288	Ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the political groups were able to take part in the negotiations. Representatives of all political groups have spoken. Helir-Valdor Seeder has not stated that there would be a procedural question, and I have not yet announced a vote. But please, procedural, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U289	No, I don't have a procedure, I want to take a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U290	I believe that, but I have not yet reached the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U291	Okay, yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U292	Let's do it in line. I am voting on the motion of censure on Minister Kalle Laanet, initiated by the Isamaa and the EKRE Group. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U293	Thank you. We have something to think about, and I'm asking for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U294	Ten minutes of recess, please! Urmas Reinsalu, procedural first.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U295	I'll ask you a procedural question after the break. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U296	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U297	So, ladies and gentlemen, the break has ended. But before we go to the vote, how else would it be a procedural question? Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U298	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. This issue we are discussing is extremely important. Substantial answers from the Minister of Defence are also important. The Minister of Defence replied that he would provide answers later in writing to all the questions that were essentially seeking to open up the subject. That's very nice. I think it is important for Parliament to get these answers, regardless of the forthcoming vote. In fact, in my opinion, this must be seen as a substantive part of the debate on this motion of censure. My question to you, President of the sitting, you can also refer it to the Minister for Defence: when will all Members receive these written answers from the Minister for Defence to the questions that have arisen here?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U299	Yes, the Secretary of Defense would like to respond. Please! But we're not going back to the debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U300	Thank you, good manager. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Mr Reinsalu is a very important question and I am pleased to reply that Mr Reinsalu has already been given the task of taking out all the questions that I promised to answer in writing from the verbatim, ASAP.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U301	As soon as possible. Peter Ernits, procedural, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U302	Yeah. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. A procedural question. In the meantime, hearing in the middle of the hall is not the best, although I have a pretty good hearing. It's a little better now, but...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U303	Yeah, I get that the note is that there's a lot of noise in the hall. Let's try to make sure that the stories that are not on the agenda and related to speeches are kept outside the Chamber. There is also a procedural question on Tarmo Kruusimägi.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U304	Thank you, good vice chairman. My procedural question concerns the free mandate of ambassadors, the expression of their free will. I have remembered that the opposition is always concerned about the coalition ambassadors so that they can vote according to conscience. Here I heard that representatives of the coalition spoke for all the Central Partymen and the Reform Partymen. Have you received any signals that they are being repressed or that this is no longer a problem, say, a free mandate for ambassadors, from the moment that the coalition has already arrived? Have you had any protests already or not, and is that guaranteed?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U305	Certainly, a free mandate is not a problem. The problem is that it cannot be realised, but I have not received any signals that anyone has been repressed. I'm sure you should intervene immediately if someone gets repressed. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U306	Thank you. Doesn't it come from the rules of procedure and home affairs that the Minister has the right and opportunity to conclude after negotiations? You didn't offer, at least I didn't hear you offer the Minister this opportunity. Perhaps the Minister would have used it before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U307	Such an opportunity is indeed due to the Rules of Procedure and was not signalled to me. But I've closed the negotiations, so I can't do it anymore. Anyway, it really was an opportunity. Kalle Grünthal has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U308	Thank you, Mr President. A good colleague here, Peter Ernits, said that there is a very poor hearing in the middle of the hall. There's nothing to hear back here. I am extremely sad to see a good colleague, Madis Milling, who for a long time looks blank at what is happening in the hall, and nothing gets there. Thank you. Maybe we could put on some more.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U309	You can add more, and you can also ask for less talk in the hall. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U310	Thank you very much, Mr President. My procedural question is motivated by Urmas Reinsalu. He pointed out that a lot of questions were allowed to be answered in writing by a respected mistrustful person. Now I think our mistrust is still due to his actions. We basically have two options. We have a chance that there will be a mistrust in the Chamber, and we have a chance that it will not come. Well, theoretically, there are both options. I know how to do 101...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U311	Please, please, the hall! Hall, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U312	However, if the disclosure of censure goes through, the questions that have been put to the Minister are obviously unnecessary. In that case, do you not have to answer them anymore, or how is this procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U313	I think that once a man has promised to send the answers, he will send them away, whether or not he has that responsibility anymore. As a minister, it is undoubtedly his duty to respond to the Members of the Riigikogu. Riigikogu ambassadors cannot and do not have to consult other Riigikogu ambassadors. But we are voting on trust here. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U314	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I have the same question again. I can't hear it in the middle of the hall either, but the main point is that I heard that my colleague Milling has, like, an empty look in the background. Does this have anything to do with her not hearing anything, or is she somehow affected?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U315	I have to say, from where I look, I can see the glow in everyone's eyes. Heiki Hepner, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U316	Thank you. Instead, my question is motivated by the subject of the Home and Working Procedures Act raised by Helir-Valdor Seeder. We did not give the Minister the opportunity to conclude and, in fact, we have broken the general debate procedure in some respects. We are now going to vote before we have listened to the Minister, even though we still have a very good hope that he has understood the nonsense of these cuts and that he can provide assurance that he has changed his mind. Here are two questions. One is that we are not creating a chance for the Minister to correct himself, and the other is that the question cannot arise that this vote is illegal and we should start the whole procedure again, just as we did this morning.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U317	Kalle Laanet is a longtime ambassador to the Riigikogu and knows our procedure. He knows he has the right to participate in the negotiations. He didn't signal it to us. Negotiations were opened, negotiations closed, there were no more requests. We will not reopen negotiations; we will try to reach a final vote once procedural questions have been answered. We certainly have no risk that today's vote will somehow become illegal. Mart Helme, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U318	Yes, I have a procedural question about the fact that flowers have been brought into the hall. I see there's only one bouquet of flowers. I understand that these are related to the disclosure of mistrust. Since there are two groups of distrust, the Conservative People's Party of Isamaa and Estonia, I insist that not only one of the authors of mistrust gets a bouquet of flowers in this case, but also another one who expresses mistrust gets a bouquet of flowers. And if it's meant to be mistrustful, then there must also be two bundles, because there are two factions in the coalition, too, and in that case it would be fair that there would also be two bundles. So procedurally, I'm asking you to take care of the flowers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U319	Fortunately, or unfortunately, our Rules of Procedure do not regulate the granting of flowers, and those who give flowers must decide for themselves who they give or do not give them to. Of course, justice must be pursued. Madis Milling, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U320	Thank you very much, Mr President. I understand that my colleagues Ernitsa and Grünthal had serious concerns about my possible empty eyes. Indeed, an empty look is a matter of interpretation and beauty is in the eyes of the viewer. On the other hand, empty and pointless procedural questions, which are not procedural matters, are very unambiguously empty questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U321	Paul in the woodland is a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U322	Thank you very much, Mr President. I still want to return to the question of Urmas Reinsalu again. It was already said that, first, the Minister gave a lot of answers in such a way that they would come in writing, and then it was said that the closing statement was now cancelled, and then the suspicion was thrown out that maybe now the rejection of the closing word is a very harsh violation of the procedure. I had the question that if the answers are given in writing, not orally in the Chamber, and we have to decide according to the answers, then at the same time the final word can also be given in writing, in the sense that we are all. In the end, the third question is the most important one: if these answers only come in writing, well the final word will be in writing and the answers will come in writing, then perhaps we could also give our distrust final position in writing, in that sense when we have read these written answers. Is that possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U323	That is not what our Rules of Procedure provide for. In the end, the floor can no longer be spoken, once negotiations have already been closed. Peter Ernits, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U324	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. As we all know, barbecuing live fish is not the most beautiful. But I'm going to ask you now, I'm going to look at the honourable Secretary of Defense in the face of whether it's nice to barbecue the Minister of Defence alive for so long. Maybe we should do it now. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U325	I've been trying to get to the vote for ten minutes, but there are procedural questions ahead. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U326	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu website contains the rules of courtesy which should be observed in the Riigikogu Chamber. It states very clearly that there will be silence in the Chamber of the Riigikogu and respect for colleagues who wish to observe and participate in the ongoing procedure, that phones will be switched to silent mode and that interviews between themselves will normally be held outside the Chamber. Would you be so kind as to remind our esteemed ambassadors of that? Also for those who have been here for decades and who still do not know it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U327	That's a good point. The Riigikogu hall must be able to work peacefully. Rock Hard, please, procedural question! Oh, he took it down. And look how quiet it was. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the final stages of barbecue. I am voting on the motion of censure on Secretary of Defense Kalle Laanet. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-08_U328	[[Let's hear it.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have a few more messages. Today's trial is over. At the beginning of the session, it was announced that we will have meetings of support groups and that we will have today the election of the governing board of the Interparliamentary Union, the IPU Estonian Group. Since we need at least 40 minutes to be elected, and we have 2 o'clock or should have committees sittings at 2 o'clock, this election is not going to take place today. We'll announce a new time when we find out.
