ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Tuesday session of the 14th working week of the V plenary session. And now it's possible to hand over drafts and inquiries. Henn Põllamaas has registered first. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U2	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, A few days ago, an extremely shameful story happened when the Estonian Defence Forces were banned from wearing the uniform of the Estonian Defence Forces in the fear that someone might misinterpret it; someone might consider it a provocation. This is a completely unprecedented arrangement, a completely incomprehensible and absolutely unacceptable step in the Republic of Estonia. The Defence Forces have confirmed that Lieutenant Colonel Priit Averkin, Commander of the Staff and Communications Battalion, ordered his staff, if possible, to refrain from moving in the form of the Defence Forces around Filter campus on 9 May. The decision was justified by the fear that the movement in the Republic of Estonia in the form of the Defence Forces may be ripped out of context and placed in a context that harms Estonia, or represented in some other way. In this regard, we have a number of questions for the Minister of Defence. I'm not going to read them for lack of time. But indeed, if we are afraid of anything, we do not know what context to tear out of and put it in context with the fact that the current coalition reduces defence costs and one of the current coalition partners has wanted to eliminate military service in the first place, and it is claimed that a draft is also under preparation to wear the uniform in the first place...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U3	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U4	...don't ban them outside the barracks, so I'd like those answers. I am giving this question on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U5	Ladies and gentlemen, while respecting the Estonian Defence Forces, allow me to say a small line. The militia itself has the saying, "The uniform has potatoes, the men are in shape." Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U6	[[Remote connection]] Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu wishes to issue a draft procedure on the ranking of the construction and renovation of important cultural facilities of the state. The bill also contains this ranking itself. Pingereas is a cultural centre in the centre of Tartu, Narva Kreenholm Cultural Quarter Manufaktuur, Arvo Pärt Music House in Rakvere, the building of the current building of the National Opera. The draft and the accompanying documents are submitted digitally.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U7	Thank you. Kalle Grünthal, procedural.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U8	Thank you, Mr President. You said the line. I didn't quite understand what you said, I think you were talking about potatoes, but there's a uniform, and there's a uniform for a soldier to stand up for to the death they're fighting for. So it's inappropriate for you to ridicule this thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U9	Thank you. I certainly didn't ridicule you. If anyone took it that way, I'm sorry. I was just passing on what one of the Defence Forces told me: they're talking about the uniform of the Defence Forces. But if there's a desire to talk about the uniform of the Defence Forces, I'll say it once again, if it offends anyone, I apologize. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U10	[[Remote connection]] I would like to remind you that the chair is the chairman of the sitting of all the political groups represented in the Riigikogu, not the maker of the interim reviews and not the person making any inquiries, which, moreover, tries to ridicule these views. So I call on you to give up this sort of thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U11	Thank you. I will certainly take this into account and say once again that this line did not concern any questioning or anything else. It was just my midterm. And I said if it offended anyone, I'm sorry and I won't say it again. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Isamaa Group, I am handing over the draft law amending the Citizenship Act. The purpose of the draft is to exclude the granting and restoration of Estonian citizenship to persons who have been repeatedly punished in criminal proceedings for intentional crimes. We believe that people who have committed crimes intentionally and repeatedly should not be granted Estonian citizenship. In June 2006, a provision was introduced into the Citizenship Act during the Reform Party, the Centre Party and the People's Union, or the current EKRE Government, which allows for the grant of Estonian citizenship to persons who have repeatedly committed intentional crimes. With this draft, we want to repeal this provision and restore the situation that preceded it. Originally, when we passed the Citizenship Act, there was no such opportunity. There was no provision that people should be given the opportunity to become Estonian citizens for repeated intentional crimes. So we hope for a constructive and substantive debate in the Riigikogu. At least in the opinion of the Isamaa Group, the current practice from 2006 until today has not justified itself. In fact, proposals have been made to give citizenship to people who have committed very serious crimes against individuals, including those involved in killing, etc. We believe that such a thing is not justified and needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U13	Ladies and gentlemen, I have adopted two drafts and one inquiry. Of course, as usual, we will decide on further proceedings in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Now it's time to carry out a presence check. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U14	91 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U15	We will begin the review of today's agenda. The first item is the draft law 284 on the amendment of the Law on maritime safety initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws; we are in the process of its third reading. I'm opening negotiations. Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U16	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'm going to open this bill a little further away. Hopefully it'll be the law here in an hour. In fact, "we bring ships under the flag of Estonia" means that we bring Estonian sailors back to work on the domestic shore. Very many Estonian sailors travel the world's seas and work in foreign ports and abroad. These are the ship's officers. If there is a shortage of qualified labour in many areas of Estonia, shipping is an area where Estonian highly esteemed seafarers who have perhaps travelled the sea for 10 or 20 years wishing to work the other half of their careers in their home country have quite few employment opportunities. The reason why countries are fighting to bring ships under their flag is that countries mostly earn tax revenue from shore services. It is also common, or rather common, for states to make very extensive tax incentives for their flag ships and, with the other hand, to oblige the owners of these ships, the shipowners, and the companies operating these ships, chartering companies, to have an office in the country where the tax revenue is due. In addition, there are all kinds of monitoring services. Estonia is no exception in this respect. It is very difficult for Estonia to compete with Panama, for example, where the ship's staff pay virtually no taxes and there is no competition in this area. As a country, we can compete with very good digital services and very fast and practical bureaucracy. And it is in this direction that one step is now the final vote. The draft will cut red tape and make registers in electronic and English. A great deal of work is still ahead of us, of course, and many maritime legislation remains unregulated. We are likely to move towards the English pilot test. Vessel traffic services, or VTS, are likely to become English because shipping is international and the language of international navigation is English. I therefore ask for support for today's draft. There is also a point in the coalition agreement of the government led by the Reform Party that we will bring the ships back under the Estonian flag and prepare a comprehensive package of political measures to ensure this. Please support this bill and we will bring Estonian ship officers back to work on the domestic shore! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U17	Speaking in a position. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U18	[[Remote connection]] I would have had a question for the waitress, but she already left.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U19	But there is no way we can do that in the current round of negotiations. We have the third reading and the speeches of the representatives of the political groups. Do you want to...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U20	[[Remote connection]] I would like to remind you that this topic was actually brought to the table by the Estonian Conservative People's Party already during the previous composition of the Riigikogu. And at the time, the Reform Party, the Fatherland and the Social Democratic Party were very ironic and skeptical about bringing down the flag of Estonia. And the previous government led by Jüri Ratas was the one who went on with the subject. I am very pleased that the current coalition of the Centre Party and the Reform Party has not wiped this praiseworthy event off the table and will continue to deal with this issue as well as with the draft. So I would have asked Mrs Akkermann, which has caused this change of mind, especially in the Fatherland to which she was formerly a member, and in the ranks of the Reform Party. But I can also be satisfied if my line is simply taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U21	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out once again that we have a third reading of the draft. During the negotiations, representatives of the political groups can take the floor either here or on the spot of the Riigikogu. And Annely Akkermann gets a rejoining chance because her name was named. Does Annely Akkermann want to make a reclining or a procedural remark?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U22	I want to make a procedural remark. This is where Mart Helme went to violate the procedure, but for the sake of the truth, I recall that I was a member of the XI Riigikogu in the Fatherland Union and Kristen Michal, Minister of Economic Affairs, called a working group to prepare the shipping package. The EKRE Group was not part of this Riigikogu. So, Mart Helm's pure false claims are multiple in a row.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U23	Okay. I will close the negotiations if there are no more requests to speak. Annely Akkermann still has a finger up, but I assume it's an accident. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I hope we do not have to make a call because it is the first item on the agenda and everything has been nicely heard. I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on maritime safety initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the amendment of other laws in connection with it 284. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U24	I said I wouldn't do the call because we're on the first item and everything's fine. The draft was supported by 91 members of the Riigikogu and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U25	Our second item today is the third reading of draft law 310 amending the Law on the Organisation of the Fisheries Market and the Penal Register Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. No calls, we can go to the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I vote on the draft law 310 amending the Law on the Organisation of the Fisheries Market and the Law on the Penal Register, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U26	94 members of the Riigikogu supported the draft and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U27	Our third item today is the first reading of the Riigikogu's resolution "Proposaling the Government of the Republic to compensate for sick days from the first day" by the Social Democratic Party Group. Please introduce Riina Sikkut, member of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U28	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, the subject of sick days is on our table. And so he is, time will tell. This time I will introduce you to the draft decision of the Riigikogu, which we will propose to the Government of the Republic to compensate for sick days from the first day. In view of the spread of the infection in March when we presented the draft, it is essential to have more instruments to control the spread of the infection. The draft concerns the spread of infection in particular at workplaces. Since many other activities have been limited, jobs have been places where people have still got together and the infection may have spread. Unfortunately, both the draft law that we have tabled and the proposals to amend the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases and the additional budget of the country were voted down. None of them found any support. It wasn't a matter of substance. There were no arguments that more generous compensation for sick days would not work, leaving the sick at home. Ministers kept saying in front of the hall that the second day's compensation would have an impact. Yes, and generous compensation would really encourage people to stay at home sick rather than go to earn their wages and infect others. Why, however, so stubbornly oppose the change that is actually aimed at people who work at a higher risk of being infected, especially in positions where teleworking is not possible? These are people who, even in a pandemic situation, have to go to work to do their job, often for a much lower-than-average salary. Contact avoidance may only be possible to a limited extent. And the cost they bear of staying in close contact with the home when they are self-insulated or corona positive is nearly EUR 100 for the minimum wage during a two-week stay away from work. So this fine of staying at home for a low-paid person seems reasonable to this hall. That doesn't make sense to the Socialists. After all, the aim is to control the spread of infection, as was the case in September last year, where, yes, the corona was already here, but it was not a situation where hospital work was limited. The necessary cost would be EUR 8.5 million, which, in the context of a package of crisis measures, or as a cost from the reserve of the Government of the Republic, is in no way excessive. In the past two months, it has become apparent that this stubborn opposition to a reasonable change is largely ideological, due to the unwillingness to increase the state's costs. Well, the reluctance to raise costs is very strong, but I do not see any reluctance to increase the spread of infection. During the discussion of sickness benefits, including this first day's compensation, the members of the government had to advise that the municipality would be reimbursed. The municipality has the resources from the additional budget, the revenue is increasing, the municipality can decide to reimburse the first day of sickness. And we saw that it was possible. A rich municipality like Tallinn has made such a decision in the interests of its inhabitants. But together, we are borrowing to finance crisis management, crisis measures, but it will benefit primarily those people whose municipality can make such a decision. And now it's gotten even more complicated. Yes, Tallinn has made this decision, but in the case of local governments at all, we realise that the tasks that the state places on the local government in the shadow of the crisis are increasing. Municipalities need to consider whether to reward more generously sick days or to allow children to continue their activities of interest, which the government has decided to cut money. So it's a pretty complicated decision for the municipality: whether the children get an interest education or whether we prevent the spread of infection at the workplace and want a situation where no one needs to be afraid of going to the test, that maybe they get a positive result or be admitted to close contact and then have to spend two weeks at home with the fine for staying at home. Fortunately, the spread of infection is significantly smaller than two months ago. But R is still moving around there. There is no rapid reduction of infection against the summer. The number of people infected each day is high and we also hear about areas where the spread of infection was much more moderate in the meantime, but now there are workplace sites People who work in the local timber industry or the food industry really have to go to work. It is not possible for them to avoid contact entirely, but it is important for all of us to have them at work. Yeah, should give priority to frontline workers. Those who are unable to work remotely should also be prioritised for vaccination to prevent infection from being released into those working groups. However, as long as we are not all in a position to vaccinate, there is no indication that 90% of the vaccination coverage will be reached in the near future. The 70% target set at the end of the summer means that a third of adults will not be vaccinated, and that will be the case if we achieve this goal. After all, unvaccinated people are not spread evenly among families and groups, so outbreaks in larger groups are still very likely. Now, if you think about the end of summer and autumn, there are no wage subsidies or sectoral measures currently planned. This must be a very large spread of infection, a large third wave if additional budget measures are foreseen. At the same time, compensation for sick days is neutral in terms of sectors. Those employers whose collective virus has been caught would not bear this double burden in the event of a more generous reimbursement of sick days in order to pay the replacement and to compensate the person at home. The sickness days would still be more generously compensated by the state's costs and letters. That would be support for those employers who are really hit by the virus, whatever sector they are in. The condition is only that they have infected or close contacts with workers. There is no need to build up a separate system for applying for aid; everything would be administratively sound, sectorally neutral and at relatively low cost. In fact, it makes it possible to prevent the spread of infection from spreading more widely. So still a reasonable suggestion. We made a similar comment or comment on the White Paper, suggesting that we should agree on the level of spread of the infection we are dealing with in society. We based our impact assessment on September. The question is, are there 50 new cases of infection per day that we can deal with in the longer term? Is this a goal to aim for, or can we also act as a society in the event of a higher number of infected people? Or do we need to keep the spread of infection even lower in order to avoid hospital overload, the closure of schools by region? But in order to compensate those affected by this virus, who suffer economic damage, even if the level of infection is low, it is more generous compensation for sick days. It also gives the government, in such a non-special situation, the opportunity, without orders or prohibitions, to help achieve the objectives set. The current ideological opposition concerning the state's costs as a whole actually hampers the way to cope with the health crisis, increases inequalities, leaves the burden on those who are at greater risk of being infected at work and who cannot work remotely. And they're usually people with lower pay, who have a two-week stay home fine that really hurts. In the current health crisis, we should not impose this burden on them. And this second-day sickness compensation agreement is also temporary, valid until the end of the year. This compensation scheme ends in half of the typical season of infectious diseases. I fear you will have to listen to me again in the autumn if this decision is not supported at this time. In the autumn, we are in the same situation that we are discussing how to proceed with the reimbursement of sick days from 1 January. And then, when we make up for it, the spread of the infection will certainly be such that the government, too, who fears an increase in costs, will see that it is needed to control the spread of the infection somehow. I would like to ask for support for the draft decision submitted by the Socialists and Raimond Kaljulaid. Let's make up for sick days more generous! Let's take the burden off the people who can't carry it and don't have to wear it to prevent us from getting infected! This is an additional instrument to control the spread of the disease. But thank you! I'd be happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U29	And there are. Starts Lauri West Forest. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U30	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Of course, there is a very unequal situation. If you live in a rich municipality like Tallinn, your sick days will be reimbursed, but in weaker municipalities it will not be done. If you have to stay home because society can move on, but you'll be forgotten, it's actually very unfair to one person. Under the leadership of the state, I think there should still be other principles, so that all Estonian people are treated the same way. But tell me this. How much will this measure now cost until the end of the year, as much as it is left, compared to all other measures to overcome this crisis? Maybe you're making some kind of comparison: is this cost higher or lower, or how do you see it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U31	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for your question. Indeed, the cost of money for all measures has been an important subject for discussion. The measure considered to be very effective last spring was the wage subsidy and was repeated. The public criticism of wage support isn't funny. It had an impact of just over EUR 250 million over three months. But it's purely compensation for damage. If the company is unable to operate, is unable to continue its business, the turnover is falling, in order to keep people at work, to pay them wages, the wage subsidy measure was a means of keeping people at work. Or we will take sectoral measures, those grants and loans distributed through the MES, the feasibility of which may be questionable, loans, grants and guarantees granted to business in general through KredEx and grants granted through EAS to the tourism sector, for example. In all of these, we are talking about significantly higher amounts than would be necessary to compensate for these sick days. And compensation for sick days is a preventive measure. This costs us when the infection spreads. But we want to keep the spread under control. The nature of this instrument is quite different from that of a wage subsidy or compensation for another specific sector. They are needed when the spread of the infection is out of control and we want to compensate for the damage caused by the restrictions. The purpose of compensation for sick days is to avoid restrictions. Just as elsewhere, health prevention is more reasonable and cheaper, both because of lower health losses and because of lower economic losses, than the measures that we apply afterwards. With these ex-post measures, we are somewhat less critical and much more generous. As in healthcare in general, the corona virus is currently reluctant to invest in preventive measures. The cost of compensation for sick days is directly linked to the prevalence of infection. If we can control it, the cost is low. We are saying that it will be EUR 8.5 million to keep infection levels around September. But compared to spring, time has ticked, so at this level it will actually become even smaller. If we are unable to apply preventive measures to both reimbursement of sick days and vaccinations as expected, and the spread of infection becomes more widespread, then the costs will also increase. If we can control the spread of the infection even better, the cost could become completely marginal. So, indeed, it is a second nature of cost and, as expected, a lower order of magnitude than would be necessary to compensate for later damage.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U32	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U33	Thank you. Such an understanding and a question. I think we're in an extremely preposterous situation. I understand that if we have a health risk situation like that now, we must have universal national solutions. It can't be any other way. Now, however, in addition to having some universal solutions, we have local authorities offering their own solutions. In this case, it is the principle that the more prosperous the municipality, the more it will be able to implement "aid measures" such as compensation for the first day of sickness. As a non-specialist, I'm asking how to judge it. I think it's an extremely stupid situation. The government should swallow the fact that this is a draft tabled by the opposition party. And what does the Health Board think about this situation when we have national standards and then local government standards? This situation is completely unbearable.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U34	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Ivar! It's a very good point indeed. It is the case that we are talking about the spread of an infectious disease, and no matter how much some local governments are trying, for example, to compensate for sick days and require a strict mask-to-mask exercise, this effort of one local government cannot produce results if people move between municipalities, live in one place, but work or study in another. We need universal measures. If we say that a mask is to be worn indoors everywhere, then it really has to be done everywhere, not so that a mask is put on in one municipality, but everywhere else you can go. The same is true of compensation for sick days. If one municipality can make an effort in its budget, pull itself together, perhaps at the expense of other people, to make this cost for the benefit of its people, then yes, these people at the workplace are protected. But if other municipalities do not work hard and the infection spreads, the person can get it from the workplace or from somewhere else in the same way. So, given the nature of the crisis, universal measures are necessary. It is not possible to place this obligation on the shoulders of the local governments so that they can somehow get things right within their own limits. This obligation is actually on the state. It will also be much easier for people to understand which rules apply, what benefits are, how to behave when the rules are universal. Where derogations are granted, they must be very clearly understandable and justified. And there is another aspect besides that the spread of the virus or the nature of the crisis makes universal measures sensible. This is how we finance crisis measures. Also, all those low-paid workers who are currently not receiving sickness benefit for the first day of illness pay off the loans taken by our country with their future taxes, and these loans, which are used to implement crisis measures, will then be subsidies granted to large companies, certain sectors or municipalities. We all carry that burden in the form of a refund. Therefore, everyone could benefit from these measures. You can't let more capable local governments run away in this sense or pull a step blanket towards you. From the point of view of covering the costs of local governments, I find it very unfair if either the cuts or crisis prevention measures and associated costs are simply brought to the hands of local authorities, in fact not to discuss whether there is a willingness, whether the local government has information about who takes the sick list and under what conditions, whether they are able to take this type of intervention at all and whether it is possible to do so within a reasonable timeframe. It is unfair to decide in this way, without realising whether the other side has the strength and technical possibilities to implement these types of solutions in times of crisis. Especially when it comes to the argument that local government income increases in the form of income tax and investment support from the additional budget. The revenue of the State is, in fact, increasing many times, probably tens of times more. There are growing tax revenues and the resources of the recovery plan and the loan money are also being used. So, if you look at whose revenues are increasing more, it is certainly a task for the state, as it should be, rather than a task for the local government.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U35	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U36	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you also for your thorough explanations and answers to questions. I very much believe that this is a preventive measure. If this had been heard earlier, we would have had fewer deaths and probably fewer closures. Now there is a situation where, fortunately, there is a downward trend. This bill deals with the reimbursement of the first day of the disease for patients with the crown virus and their close contacts, and this cost is practically missed when people are healthy. However, when the autumn comes, a new wave, this cost will be largely borne by the operators. Would you recall that, from the point of view of equal treatment of businesses, this measure would be very appropriate for both small and large enterprises. And when we say that, according to our estimates, the maximum cost could be 8.5 million, how much will it cost to lock down this one-day measure for the state and business?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U37	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for your question. Indeed, when we look at Estonian companies, most of them are micro-enterprises, small enterprises. The costs of sick days do not ask whether you have 10 employees or 250 employees. For example, when it comes to a food business, you need to find money for a substitute worker and cover the costs of sick days for a person at home. In addition, personal protective equipment, occupational safety restructuring, organisation of work so that people working on different shifts are not exposed to all costs so that the risk of spread of the virus is grounded in the organisation of work has already been done anyway. Thus, this additional cost of sick days, when the company has already done everything in its power to prevent the spread of infection, really leaves the impact of the crisis to those companies whose workers are affected by the virus. But the virus does not really choose whether it is a small or large enterprise, what profit or turnover numbers have been, and whether it can be borne by paying the double cost for the replacement and the sick. Secondly, the cost of shutting down the economy. It's awfully difficult to say a specific number. During the emergency period Eesti Pank calculated the approximate size class. I may be wrong, but the order of magnitude was something like a week of restrictions and half a percent of GDP. Last spring really was Estonia, no "locked" is wrong to say, compared to other countries, but there were very strict restrictions compared to later times. This half percent of GDP per week is undoubtedly a higher cost than compensation for these sick days could ever be.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U38	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U39	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, It is, of course, obvious that this is a very necessary and sensible proposal. I don't know any public health specialists who think otherwise, probably because they don't exist. In these months, I have been constantly harassed by the question of why the government does not support this proposal. There has been talk of ownership, there have been other unconvincing reasons, but it seems to me that the last few weeks have enlightened us in this regard that this is the return of such a broader, primitive neoliberal economic model to the leadership of the Estonian state. We can see this from the choices made in the country's budgetary strategy that cut interest in education. It is a broader ideology that the state is pulling itself back, and let the people see how they can handle it. How do you feel, maybe that's the real reason that there's this broader paradigm change going on here? And what does that mean for Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U40	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I fully agree that these last few months have shed light on why such a stubbornly generous reimbursement of sick days is opposed. If you believe that every person is the blacksmith of his or her happiness, if you get sick, if you're guilty, then you have to suffer, it's like there's really no need for more generous compensation for sick days. But the virus doesn't dial, it doesn't convict anyone. Because of the nature of the crisis, I find it very wrong to leave this burden somehow to the people. Whether we are looking at income inequality or regional inequality, if we have regions that are lagging behind, or people who are lagging behind, people who carry the burden of the crisis unfairly, it really will hold us all back. A person who is repeatedly at home in close contact, for example, loses 100 euros of his or her income and then again 100 euros of his or her income. His reluctance to limit is understandable; his unwillingness to follow the instructions given by the government is understandable. And in the end, under the conditions of contagious disease, all of us are affected. If people do not comply with the restrictions, do not test or stay at home in close contact, it is very difficult to stop the spread of infection. But even after the crisis, when we have control over the spread of the corona virus and the coverage of vaccination is high, we actually want all people to be able to contribute, participate in the labour market, be active. The difficulties in coping, the inability to develop your skills, the ability to move forward to a job with better pay, more value-added, all of this will have a long-term impact on our economy. It is incomprehensible to aim for a smarter economy or for smarter work, innovation, a green turn, a digital turn, if we have a situation where not all people are actually involved, not everyone will be given the opportunity, well, to turn with others. The nature of these changes is that it requires some kind of skill development, a change in behaviour and some kind of change throughout society, so that coherence is important. The goal of a green turn cannot be met by the government if people do not make different consumption choices, do not sort garbage, for example, if entrepreneurs do not invest, I do not know, in the digital production line, but invest in the old one. In order for all these steps to help meet the objectives set by the state, all people must be involved. The goal can be formulated by the government, but the government cannot fulfill it itself, no matter how good the green people are members of the government. And the resolution of this crisis and the decisions made for it cannot in any way be separated from what we, as a society, have to do in the long term.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U41	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U42	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good waitress! The Internet is really great, the fourth attempt might succeed. But my question is that the mayor of Tallinn... [[We're breaking up. We can't hear from now on.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U43	Good Peter...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U44	... under the leadership of his party partner Jüri Ratas in the country and here in the Riigikogu. Do you think they will vote in favour of this bill? I like it anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U45	[[Remote connection]] Thank you! Indeed, the decisions made by Tallinn could say something about the general values and beliefs that apply under the leadership of the Centre Party. So I hope that the ambassadors will support the government's proposal to start paying compensation to the corona positive and close contacts from the first day of illness. The difference or gap between local government and national values is strange. And I don't know what kind of message it sends to the voters.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U46	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U47	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for the floor. Good waitress Riina! We have talked so much about this and it has become clear that the Centre Party and the Reform Party do not want to understand what the cost of this alternative is if we do not really help people stay at home when they are sick. That's weird. I have two questions about this that you might be able to answer. That the Reform Party doesn't understand those people with lower incomes who can't work remotely, I understand. But also, for example, the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises, or EVEA, protests against how the country has behaved in this situation. He will not hear what most entrepreneurs say either. On the other hand, the Centre Party, which has so far declared that they understand the people at work, and, as you can see, one of their party members, the mayor of Tallinn, can, but members of the Riigikogu and members of the government who represent the party cannot. Do you have any idea what's happened to these people?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U48	[[Remote connection]] A wonderful question indeed! Both the members of the government and the MPs, who will soon vote on this draft decision, should be reminded that most people in Estonia are not highly paid. 80% of people earn less than average wages. Not all companies in Estonia are large, not all companies send public relations companies to stand up for their rights or speak loudly in the press, knock on the door of government members or take part in committee meetings. Most Estonian companies are micro-enterprises or small enterprises. Just as children who have lost the money for an education of interest do not come to Toompea to protest, very many low - paying people will also suffer this fine if they stay at home. And the companies are groaning under this strain to pay the sick pay and find a replacement for the people. However, the decisions on the solutions to the last crisis do not reflect this proportion of low-paid people in Estonia or the proportion of small businesses. Rather, we are hearing about applying for crisis support that the first one to arrive, who has a better capacity to carry out applications, it will. It is incomprehensible why many people and businesses in Estonia are not heard why their burden in the crisis is not taken into account. Yes, indeed, in the case of the Reform Party, this has always been the case, and it is understandable in this sense, but how the Centre Party only reveals this understanding through the mouth of the Mayor of Tallinn, but it is not strange in the government, it is wrong. The current vote in favour of the draft decision would actually make it possible to make it right.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U49	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U50	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank you for a very good report that outlined all the positive aspects of how to keep the sick and close contacts at home. But my question concerns the idea that the local government will pay these sickness benefits. We had a similar case in Tartu: the city was also wanted to pay for the first day of sickness. And the question immediately arose as to how this data would still get to the city hall, who would then transmit it. We were told they were coming to the city hall, but at the same time the person has to give permission that his health records are moving somewhere. And it's basically asking for support when we're talking about the first day of illness and the local government is making up for it. Please explain how these health data will be protected and whether there is support.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U51	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. That's a very good question again. We are talking about a digital revolution and, in fact, we have virtually all subsidies, benefits, communication with the state digital. This also concerns the flow of data. But the recommendations that local authorities start to compensate for the first day of sickness are completely aliens. They do not take into account that local authorities do not have access to the Health Insurance Fund database or to the Health Information System. No one can sort out sick people from there to decide to reward them more generously or something like that. Health data are sensitive personal data. They can't be sent back and forth or watched by any interested person, they're protected. And they're protected for a reason. The municipality cannot, by its decision, simply open and dig up the health information system or the health fund's database. Therefore, Tallinn has chosen the solution that if a person has fallen ill and loses part of his or her income, he or she will submit an application with his or her data, on which basis a decision can be made. In fact, this is not a suitable solution for a digitalised country. This system, the way we move e-healthy pages, or e-inability pages, is prescribed by law. This system is all there, it is not possible to bring to it the first day of sickness compensation municipality, which does not have the right to use the information, is not able to access this information. And those compensation schemes that are applied with goodwill can only be such that people have already lost their income and the compensation decision is made on the basis of their ex post data. This is, in fact, an uncomfortable, unreasonable, administrative burden-enhancing solution that we do not need today. The state could solve this centrally, more easily, in a completely different way. There is no need to give local authorities such access to health data.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U52	Eduard Odines, please! [[No sound.]] Yes, Eduard, please! So, Mr. Odines, maybe you can... We see, I think we can hear you. [[No sound.]] In that case, I hope that Riina and Eduard will communicate directly with each other and will be able to answer these questions. To Mr Ernitsa, I would like to remind you that when we are dealing with this item, we can each ask a question. So, good Riina Sikkut, no more questions for you. Thank you! We are now listening to the presentation by Siret Kotka, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, of the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U53	Good chairman of the sitting! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! At the meeting of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu, the draft decision of the Riigikogu, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group, entitled "Proposaling the Government of the Republic to compensate for sick days from the first day of the year" was dealt with on 3 May this year. Like here today, Riina Sikkut made a very comprehensive presentation in the Commission, presenting both the content and the purpose, and answered the questions of the Members of the Commission. I am simply referring to some of the questions asked by the Members of the Commission, in addition to those that sounded here today. The proposal asked whether the first day of the illness would be reimbursed solely for the purpose of preventing the spread of the coronavirus, i.e. patients diagnosed with the diagnosis of COVID-19 and their close contacts. Riina Sikkut said yes. In addition, the Commission was interested in the number of people who are not entitled to sickness benefit or who are less than EUR 500. They also wanted to know how much the crisis measure in the draft would cost money. Riina Sikkut replied that the budgetary impact of the proposal was directly linked to the spread of infection. The impact assessment was carried out on the basis of infection indicators and if the spread of infection can be kept at a level of 50 or less per day on average and about five times more close contacts, the action would take EUR 8.5 million per year. Riina Sikkut explained that the analysis was based on September 2020 figures, since the situation was then under control. The calculation is based on the income of the recipient of the average benefit from the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, which is more than 500 euros. Thus, the actual cost is lower than estimated for the same high infection rate. The Commission took the following decisions: to propose a draft to be put on the plenary agenda by today, 11 May (there was consensus), to propose a final vote on the draft (a similar consensus) and to appoint Siret Kotka (a similar consensus) as rapporteur for the lead committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U54	You have questions too. Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U55	Thank you. Madame waitress! You are the chairman of an extremely important committee at an extremely difficult time. I have a fundamental question for you, which I also asked Mrs Riina Sikkut. In the current situation, where national universal solutions are expected to apply in terms of health protection, there are no nationwide universal solutions that affect sick days. And the local governments have been given the opportunity to pay the extra, which is obviously completely insane in the current situation. I can very much appreciate the municipalities that have embarked on this path, but on the other hand, it has also been said here that we do not know how the municipalities implement it. And local governments don't have access to personal data. How do you assess this situation? Should we have a universal approach? And in the current situation, how do you assess the behaviour of the city of Tallinn? Can the City of Tallinn actually apply what they have promised out or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U56	Thank you for your question. As far as the decisions are concerned, I would remind you that only some time ago the Riigikogu passed the draft law 355, which made it very clear that the reimbursement of sick days from the second day will last until the end of this year. As far as the city of Tallinn is concerned, I think that those municipalities who want to support people in addition to the state's measures must only be recognised and supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U57	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U58	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good waitress! I will return to Mikhail Kõlvart and Tallinn. If the cost of this decision is 8.5 million, it will be about 700000 divided by 12. If the costs of the city of Tallinn are deducted, how much have you actually counted on the rest of Estonia when the mayor of the Central Party pays for the part of Tallinn?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U59	Thank you. I stress once again: yes, the city of Tallinn has decided from its budget to further support its citizens in the context of the corona crisis. As far as I know, the fact that people receive compensation from the first day of sickness is based on applications. It has to be acknowledged, it is a good step. And I think that if other municipalities have the ability to do this, then they need to want strength.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U60	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U61	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Well, in fact, it is not enough that local authorities should fight the pandemic. During the months that we have discussed this first day of illness, there has generally been the impression that the Ministers of the Centre Party, as well as the Members of Parliament, support this proposal, think that it is very good. In the meantime, there was hope that maybe we could do it in the government, but obviously it hasn't. The neoliberal economic approach of the Reform Party has been maintained. Can you analyze why the Centre Party is so impotent?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U62	As regards the reimbursement of sick days from day one, many middle parties have expressed the view that this idea is very sympathetic. And we can see that the city of Tallinn has done so. There is no doubt that politics is the art of compromises, and if we also look at the capacity of the Estonian state budget, we will see that compensation for sick days is possible from the second day.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U63	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U64	Thank you. Perhaps you'd be more specific. You are talking about reimbursement of sick days from day one and that the local government will do so when it has the capacity. In fact, we should call things right: it's support. And many people don't go asking for support, even if they really need it. They'd rather go to work sick or in close contact. It is right and appropriate to resolve this issue at national level. But I can say that in Tartu, for example, the ambassadors of the Centre Party, who wanted to introduce this system, could not answer the question of how data on the fact that a person has been sick or has been in close contact with the local government can reach out to the local government. They said the data came from somewhere upstairs. In fact, when a person goes and writes a statement, it means that he is already asking for support. This is no longer compensation for sick days.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U65	Thank you, Heljo Pikhof! I certainly didn't say this data came from somewhere upstairs. Still, people, I said very clearly, this is what they can ask for support. That is on the basis of the statements, as you referred to.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U66	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U67	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! It is clear that compensation for all sick days is currently a very necessary measure. As has been said, your party's vice-chairman has also implemented this much needed measure in the capital. Good waitress, how are you today from the chair to the rest of us...... that they will not receive equal treatment with the inhabitants of the capital, that the state will not come to their aid and that not all sick days will be reimbursed to all Estonian people? [[The call's hacking.]] How?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U68	Thank you, good questioner! I didn't exactly hear your question, but I can assume that. As regards today's vote and the final vote, all members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to show their decision as free will whether or not they support it. And you will see that the Committee on Social Affairs made one very clear decision: it is a final vote. This means that 101 members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to clearly demonstrate their free will. There was no direction from the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U69	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U70	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, In the Committee on Social Affairs, we also had a debate about small businesses. This was also the case in previous times when the issue of sickness benefits paid on the first day was discussed. They, when they attended our committee meeting, pointed out that this would be the best health measure in times of crisis, and that would treat businesses equally. I also very much appreciate that the city of Tallinn has found this opportunity. You said that the city of Tallinn would do so from its own budget. Well, other municipalities would do so from their own budget, just the state has also directed support there. Do you think that those who are rich can afford it to their own people, but those who lack this ability or who have decided to support the missing part of the education of interest cannot do so? Is it statesmanly?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U71	Thank you. Once again: good Helmen Küttt, member of the Social Affairs Committee, yes, we have had this debate in the Committee on Social Affairs and the EVEA has also been presenting its views on several occasions. The Commission has heard these views. At present, the measure agreed in the autumn to be reimbursed for the second day of sickness is very clear. In spring, it was extended until the end of the year. I myself hope that perhaps we will have additional national budget opportunities, and we can even extend this measure. Peep Peterson, the head of the Confederation of Trade Unions, has also said that, in order to see the effect of the compensation measure from the second day of sick leave, it would still be necessary for us to do so for two years in a row. So I hope that we will actually extend this measure, which is now temporary, until the end of the year. Then we can see how we can actually move on with sick days. As far as municipalities and their different capacities are concerned, yes, they certainly have different capacities. But the coronals are not different in the municipalities, either. When we look at Tallinn and other Harjumaa, these fires are more serious. Yes, Tallinn is bigger, it is the capital and it is undoubtedly more capable. And we have seen that he has taken exemplary steps.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U72	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Now, if you're gonna finish this performance on the remote today, I suggest you go down from here to the crowd and see what's really going on there. Entrepreneurs squeeze water out of stone to handle their own business. People are wearing loans, liabilities, leases, but no pay. Some entrepreneurs, 18 people, have committed suicide because even psychiatrists have been unable to come to their aid. Every cent is important to them. My question is: what is your salary? I mean, name this number and tell me how these people can handle their lives who don't have that kind of pay.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U74	Thank you, Kalle Grünthal! The salaries of members of the Riigikogu are public information, just as your salary is public information. So if you want, state your salary publicly here in the Riigikogu Hall. As far as businesses are concerned, I have met entrepreneurs. And when it comes to larger companies and those who say that we really must not lose our economy, I understand that what I am about to say is not the answer to you. But larger companies with 500 and more employees in Estonia, and perhaps smaller ones say that in order for them to be able to meet their orders at all and be competitive not in Estonia, but in the international market, so that they can export so that they do not lose their position on the market, only one is needed. They say: good country, give us a vaccine so that our workers are vaccinated, so that we can meet orders and people are healthy. This is actually the direction of entrepreneurs, but I understand that this rhetoric is not suitable for Kalle Grünthal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U75	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U76	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I understand that the new reality of the Reform Party coming to power is that people are no longer cared for. And listening to your speech, it seems that you yourself have embraced the same rhetoric. This system, which you are talking about, the second-day compensation, means that a person loses 30% of his salary during his/her stay at home, and it is very important that he/she stays at home for a month. It's a very big loss. I do not understand why you refuse to think along with these good proposals. But since you, like this inequality, do not want to notice in any way and say that let every municipality deal with the matter itself, I note that I am a member of a council of one municipality and I can assure you that this municipality has no ability to compensate for these sick days. I am interested that when you shaped this position, did you even examine the capacity of Estonian municipalities to support people?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U77	Thank you. As far as the aspect of humanity is concerned, I would remind you that earlier sickness days were reimbursed from day four. In other words, we support a very clear step closer to the person from the second day on. As regards the reimbursement of sick days at all and how this could go forward, I can say that the Social Affairs Committee is about to bring together and discuss the various parties in the near future. But speaking of experts and asking them, experts say that, in fact, these people are much more affected by the fact that this compensation rate, which is currently 70% from the second day of sickness, should be 80%. So when it comes to expert advice and your recommendation, there's a way that separates. But I think it is right that the Committee on Social Affairs is going to have one session in the near future and we are discussing what could be even better solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U78	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U79	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! In contrast to the questioner, I understand your rhetoric that you support this bill, let's say, in your heart. And is it true that you also recommend that the Centre Party Group vote in favour of supporting this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U80	Thank you, Riho, for that question. The way the central party acts in the vote, I can't tell you that. But the Social Affairs Committee put the draft to the final vote with a very clear decision, and every member of the Riigikogu has the right to show his or her mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U81	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U82	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! It has been a number of times that Tallinn is one of the most rich self-governments that can do anything. I took out the local governments' wealth chart and it turns out that Tallinn is among these averages. The richest municipality is Ruhnu and the poorest is Narva according to this table. And all the municipalities around Tallinn are clearly richer than Tallinn. But what I want to ask you is whether you think all municipalities should always behave the same way. What is the point of local governments when everyone makes exactly the same decisions? Perhaps the difference between municipalities enriches Estonia and gives people the opportunity to decide which local government they want to live in.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U83	Thank you, good Erki, for the question. The statistics you just brought out are very good. It also clearly shows what the priorities of one municipality or another are, in fact, important to them. The fact that Tallinn is distinguished by the fact that it wants to support people further is a very clear priority for the city of Tallinn. As you pointed out, he is averaged in his ability and wealth. This means that Tallinn is very clearly setting an example. And those who are actually more capable and richer, if they had a desire, if that were their priority, would be able to follow it. But for them, other areas are more important.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U84	Every member of the Riigikogu has the right to ask a question to the rapporteur on this item. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U85	[[Remote connection]] Good waitress! You have a coalition agreement with the Reform Party, which states: "We consider it important to reduce social, economic and regional inequalities and to promote the health and well-being of every person. " It is clear that what we are talking about here today in the context of this item is directly concerned with this point in the coalition agreement that you are ignoring in all the nuances you have written in it. And I understand that you yourself have taken such an apologizing attitude and are saying that it is your coalition partner who is holding you back. But have you explained to your coalition partner what this point in the coalition agreement means and how is it a screaming contradiction to the fact that we do not reimburse sick days from day one and 100%?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U86	Thank you. Good Indrek, about the rhetoric of an apology, it seems to me that it's more like your rhetoric. But as far as the coalition agreement and the implementation of the coalition agreement are concerned, I think that the coalition currently complies very clearly with the coalition agreement. If we are still looking at compensation for sick days, if the coalition had no desire to meet people and support people in this crisis, then there would be no different support measures for both entrepreneurs and people, for example, to compensate for sick days from another day. Instead, it would have become the permanent regime for the payment of compensation from the fourth day of sickness. So I do not agree with you that we are somehow not fulfilling the point of the coalition agreement. This coalition very clearly decided to extend this temporary measure until the end of the year, which means that the sickness days will be reimbursed from the second day of sickness. And I very much hope that this measure will, if possible, be further extended.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U87	No further questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. Indrek Saar on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U88	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, we are having this debate, which we have actually held in this Riigikogu on the initiative of the Socialists since last autumn. And sadly, however, the government coalition still has not been able to take this step to actually reduce infection by using a very simple and not expensive way. This is the way proposed in the draft decision of the Social Democrats: sick days could be compensated for by day one and 100%. All of this is why Riina Sikku, the representative of the initiators, has already spoken thoroughly, and I myself have spoken repeatedly on this subject here in the Riigikogu Chair. So I would rather skip this part and concentrate on the political choices that today's coalition is actually showing us by not compensating for sick days. First of all, allow me to correct the statement made by Commission rapporteur Siret Kotka that experts have a completely different recommendation than those proposed by the Socialists. Rather, you should think about raising the compensation, which is now 70% from the second day onwards. And Siret Eagle mentioned that at least 80%. If Siret Kotka were to now examine this draft decision and previous draft social democrats' laws, he would know that they would say that, in addition to the first day being reimbursed, 100% would be reimbursed. We fully agree that this 70% of the second day is clearly inadequate, because it will impose an unfair burden on both workers and, indirectly, employers. The alternative cost is one term that the Reform Party, which is currently leading the government, could understand. And Excel's faith, as they have shown us once again with the country's budgetary strategy, leaving aside all other dimensions, could understand what alternative costs mean. We are currently failing to spend an estimated 8.5 million a year in order to significantly reduce illness and thus significantly reduce the need for restrictions, not to mention saving human lives. But this 8.5 million is estimated to take us every day when there are restrictions. If we look at different estimates, it is estimated that one day's restrictions will cost 7 to 19 million. In this context, spending 8 million a year to avoid serious illness would be a very good investment, an investment whose profitability is impossible to imagine. This could be achieved. I ask the Reform Party to reconsider its dogmatic attitude. Why is it still not advisable to pay compensation from the first day of illness? It is very sad that the Centre Party has, in this sense, proved to be a poodle of the government and a complete collaborator of the government. If we decide by the comments that have been made during the various debates, and actually by Siret Kotka's appearance, it could be said repeatedly that the Centre Party understands the need to pay compensation from the first day of sickness and 100%. Yet they go along with this reckless and harsh attitude. In fact, people who have to work every day, who are unable to work remotely and whose salary is not so high that a quarter of your monthly salary, for example, is a minor concern. I'm asking for more time, manager!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U89	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U90	I very much hope that this new creation of inequality, which has become a pattern for this coalition, unfortunately, will end at some point. On this point, this could also be reduced somewhat by today's decision. But we see in a row that, despite the point in the coalition agreement that has already been quoted, which says that this coalition attaches great importance to reducing social, economic and regional inequalities, every next step is constantly creating more inequality. It will also be created in these sick days, created in relation to a working person, created in relation to businesses who have protested that the state is putting all this burden on them and is not prepared to share this burden in any way and to help cover the damage. Not to mention regional inequality. We have repeatedly talked about having one, at least one self-government, the largest self-government and a financially capable self-government to help cover these days. Most local governments in Estonia do not do so. We also see all this with regard to the country's budgetary strategy and other options, perhaps the most screaming of which is the cutting-off of half the money for the education of interest. In fact, for the sake of both Estonian national culture and children's future, the balance of the Excel table is being established, which is extremely cynical and short-sighted. That is why I very much hope that you will remember Siret Eagle's sentence, which we have just heard. He said that every member of the Riigikogu has the opportunity to show his or her senses in this vote and that the members of the Centre Party have not been given any guidance in the form of a Commission decision. I very much hope that the members of the Centre Party will be able to show their minds and vote in favour of this draft decision, as will all other members of the Riigikogu. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U91	Please! There are no further requests to speak. No amendments have been tabled to us. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on a draft of 346. Honourable Riigikogu, I would remind you that we are discussing the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Group of the Social Democratic Party "Proposaling the Government of the Republic to compensate for sick days from the first day" 346. The commission has proposed a final vote. I would like to draw your attention once again to the need for a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu to adopt this draft decision. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U92	The proposal was supported by 31 members of the Riigikogu; no one opposed it, with one abstention. The proposal did not receive sufficient support from a sufficient number of members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U93	Our fourth item today is the first reading of the Financial Supervision Authority Act Amending Act 380 initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The presentation will be made by Erki Savisaar, Chairman of the Monetary Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U94	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Finance Committee discussed a draft 380, a draft law supplementing the Financial Supervision Authority Act at its meeting on 19 April. The first reading of the draft was prepared at the meeting on 3 May. Thomas Honourable and Advisor Helen Korju-kuul, Head of the Financial Markets Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, and Siim Tammer, Member of the Management Board of the Financial Supervision Authority took part in the discussion on 19 April. The draft provides for an extension of the basis for the publication of information relating to national financial supervision and the creation of a legal basis for the publication of alerts in the Financial Supervision Authority Act. The draft will enable the Financial Supervision Authority to publish alerts and to alert the public about non-compliant activities and any doubts in the field of financial supervision. The Commission was fully consensual about the initiation of the draft. If we now look at the debate on this issue, it actually took place within the framework of the procedure for draft 312. In particular, in the course of the proceedings concerning the amendment of the Law on Credit Institutions initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related draft law on the amendment of other laws, the Ministry of Finance presented to the Finance Committee a proposal to supplement the Financial Supervision Authority Act with the power of inspection to publish such alerts in the event of the provision of an unauthorised financial service or of any other non-legislative financial activity or its suspicion. Thomas Honourable explained that in 2019 the Financial Supervision Authority issued an alert which was published on the Financial Supervision Authority's website. It informed the public that one person was providing a service for which it was not authorised. The procedure for publishing the Financial Supervision Authority notice was challenged and brought about a dispute before the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court decided at the end of January this year that the Financial Supervision Authority had no legal basis for publishing such a notice. At the same time, the Supreme Court admitted in its judgment that such authorisation could still be available to the Financial Supervision Authority. The amendment provides the Financial Supervision Authority with a solid legal basis for issuing alerts. It is also common for such alerts to be issued in other countries. They inform the public whether or not it is worth putting money into certain activities. The amendment is now urgent precisely because, when the second pension pillar money is released, there is a risk that people who offer people any investment opportunities or other such financial products without being authorised to do so will take action. It would be very reasonable for the Financial Supervision Authority to have a legal basis for making alerts public by then. According to Siim Tammer, alerts have been published on the Financial Supervision Authority's website for years. There were over 900 in 2019 and 1300 in 2020. Due to the decision of the Supreme Court, the publication of notices is suspended. This year, the Financial Supervision Authority already has information about more than 400 subjects who provide services in Estonia that they should not provide. Member of the Commission Rene Kokal had a question about what will be done if action continues despite the warning. Mr Tammer replied that the prosecutor's office and the police would be reported. Unauthorised economic activities are punishable under the Penal Code. Only a part of the information received will be processed, as the police will make decisions on how serious the infringements are. The Financial Inspectorate is involved in these proceedings as an expert. Mr Honourable added that the feasibility of taking additional steps should be analysed in cases where an undertaking is not obeying and acting unlawfully. For example, in Germany, financial supervision has the right to initiate the compulsory liquidation of such a company. Member of the Commission, Jürgen Ligi, was in favour of a more demanding approach and asked for clarification as to whether information was the only thing being done. Siim Tammer explained that if the Financial Supervision Authority identifies a service provider which does not have an authorisation or which provides a service that appears to be illegal, the Financial Supervision Authority shall fix the name of the service provider and record the service in question. Thereafter, people who check the background of this company in order to assess whether or not to invest there will be able to find a warning that this company is not authorised or is not allowed to operate in this field. The current law does not allow the Financial Supervision Authority to disclose such information on persons who are not under its supervision. Further analysis could be made of the possibility of extending the competence of the Financial Supervision Authority even in such a way that the Financial Supervision Authority has the right to prohibit the provision of the service, for example, in such a way that the service provider is no longer able to use the corresponding Internet server or address for the provision of the service. Since many of these questions and nuances arose, this amendment was not incorporated into draft 312 on my proposal, but the Committee on Monetary Affairs decided to initiate a new draft law, in which it would be possible to discuss all these issues and also for the parties to consider whether this initial wording, which was proposed, sufficient or necessary to supplement it in any way. During the debate at first reading on 3 May, the Committee on Monetary Affairs proposed that the first reading of this draft be closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U95	Good waitress, no questions for you. Thank you! As you have heard, the proposal of the commission is to conclude the first reading. But first, we need to hear the speeches of the political groups during the negotiations, if there are any. No, it's not. Then we will follow the proposal of the commission to conclude the first reading. We're done with the first reading. I will set the deadline of 19 May at 5.15 p.m. for the submission of amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U96	We are going to our fifth item today: Draft Act 348 amending the Penal Code initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group and Riigikogu member Raimond Kaljulaid. Heljo Pikhof introduces it at first reading. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U97	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! I have the honour to introduce the draft law amending the Penal Code initiated by the Socialists, which aims to improve the well-being of children and protect minors from sexual abuse. The proposal raises the age limit for sexual self-determination to 16 years of age in order to protect minors from abuse. If we go back in time now, no one can remember exactly where the sexual self-determination clause for 14-year-olds appeared in our laws. It was 1992, the time we tried to be paduliber. The raising of this age line has been discussed several times in the Riigikogu in 2011 and 2013, in particular on the initiative of the Child Protection League, until this debate was gradually suppressed. Discouragement is of little use. All of us, the legislators, the government and society as a whole, must do our utmost to combat this evil. It seems that coalition and opposition parties have agreed that minors must be better protected against sexual abuse. The Social Democrats, as well as the EKRE, have submitted their draft for amending the Penal Code to the proceedings of the Riigikogu and, at the end of March, we discussed changing the age limit for sexual self-determination and other intelligent aspects that accompany it. We have now come so far that the leaders of the relevant ministries have discussed these issues and the Ministry of Justice has also written its draft. It is a pity that a series of teenage atrocities had to rise to the surface before the seriousness of the problem was understood. The recent ugly story of the young women's soccer trainer and minors growing up in sexual relations unleashed an entire avalanche. A number of similar cases were evident, and judgmental reactions appeared without delay. If we look at the current legal space, according to the Penal Code, the intercourse of an adult is punishable by imprisonment of up to five years from the age of 14. The Socialist proposal is to increase the age of sexual self-determination to 16 years of age, as is the case in neighbouring countries such as Finland, Lithuania and Latvia. We know that this is just one aspect of the whole highly sensitive topic. Therefore, it is important to involve not only lawyers and officials, doctors, psychologists and other scientists, police and child-guards, but also youth's own representative organisations in the discussions. And so that we don't grow more criminals, we have to argue the so-called buffer zone. According to the Social Democrat bill, it could be four years if one side is a minor whose sexual self-determination begins at the age of 16, and the other side is of age. After all, the problem is that young people who are insecure and inexperienced cannot be abused by adults. When a young person under 18 is inclined to engage in sexual activity through the use of coercion, force, threat or influence, this is a crime and it has been stated in our laws since 2013. As far as the current law enforcement is concerned, any sexually undertone activity is considered to be an unintelligible child of less than 10 years of age. At the same time, sexual relations between minors are allowed in our judicial area, starting from the age of 10. I believe that this minimum age and the age difference between partners must also be reviewed during the procedure for the draft. In Canada, for example, sexual relations between minors are allowed from the age of 12. The intimacy of peers, which takes place with mutual consent and security, must certainly not be disgraced. Now that we are still talking about the draft, it also makes it punishable, among other things, the purchase of sex from minors, the pursuit and monitoring of access to child pornography, the production and provision of child pornography, the sexual agreement to meet childhood, the sexual temptation of a child's age. In fact, these acts are still punishable, but we are raising the age limit to 16. Now, in a few words, research. According to research from the Institute for Health Development, the average time taken to start sexual life has not changed in recent decades. It is 17.5 years old in Estonia and it is similar for both boys and girls. 20% of our 14- to 15-year-old teenagers already have sexual intercourse experience and these teenagers are also largely at risk of sexual exploitation. This Decision shall be published in the EEA Section of, and in the EEA Supplement to, the Official Journal of the European Union. The report of the study on the health behaviour of schoolchildren aged 13 to 15 points out that it is difficult for young people with very early sexual intercourse to talk about their concerns with their parents. They judged their physical and mental health worse than others and were not satisfied with their lives. Other risky behaviours, such as cannabis and drinking, were more common among them. Clinical psychologist Mariana Saksnite, who works with sexually abused children, has said that many reasonable adults can't imagine how many of us who are just waiting for the child's legal age to be fulfilled so that you can impose your will on him. Since we cannot expect such young people to be able to resist an inappropriate relationship, legal protection is essential for those younger than 16 years of age. Mariana Saksniit has also said that if the perpetrator is a close person to the child, the child may have a conflict of loyalty, and the child does not want to harm the loved one. The child also hopes that it will not happen again. In Mariana Saksniidu's practice, there have been cases of sexual abuse where the child has grown into a partner for the abuser and wants to protect the adult. After all, we may think that children and young people know that help needs to be sought and where to seek help. At the same time, even an adult may not fully understand what he should do in such a situation. And we must not expect that knowledge from the children. Often, the reason for what has happened is that the symptoms of disturbance become a major obstacle to everyday life. Often, however, the experience of sexual abuse is kept secret for as long as possible. The reason is the confusion, shame and guilt associated with what happened, as well as the fear that someone who is trusted with a secret might not believe what happened. Finally, a quote from a young and courageous man: "Guess the medieval ones that they want, but it is vital to tell children about their body and that it is only theirs. And no one can touch it. " The man knows what he is saying, for years ago, he has experienced the fact that molesters know that you do not dare to scream. The Social Democrats call for the draft to be supported and hope to come up with viable solutions. This time in good faith and with one accord.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U98	Thank you. There are questions for the waitress. Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U99	Thank you. Madam waitress, can you make a comparison across the European Union, how, and from what age, this self-determination has been regulated in other EU Member States?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U100	Thank you for your question. If we look at neighbouring countries, then in Finland, Latvia and Lithuania, the limit of sexual self-determination is 16 years. This is also the case in Spain, Great Britain, Norway, Belgium and the Netherlands, for example. If we go a little wider, the age of sexual self-determination is very different in European jurisdiction. At present, the age limit for sexual self-determination has been established between 14 and 18 years. In most countries, the age limit is between 14 and 16 years, of which there are only three exceptions: Cyprus has 17 years of age and Ireland also 17 years of age, Turkey has 18 years of age. It's like they don't fit into this general pattern. If you look at the European Union now, it can be said that neither the European Union nor the Council of Europe has recommended a specific age of sexual self-determination. No efforts have been made to harmonise the age limit between Member States. However, when we look at binding legal obligations, they relate to the sexual abuse of children under 18 years of age.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U101	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U102	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good waitress! But what if an older man wants to get married...... thirteen-fourteen... [[The connection's breaking up.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U103	Please speak to the microphone, Peter!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U104	...and if a minor can't, maybe he can't define his sexual orientation and maturity, then how can he feel about it? After all, we have many honourable colleagues in this Chamber who have given thought to ideas and a legislative initiative...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U105	I don't understand the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U106	Peter, can you ask me again? We didn't hear you. Now it's all hanged up in the first place. In the meantime, let's retake Ivar Padari.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U107	Thank you. Lanzarote is a nice place in Europe, a nice island. What is Lanzarote's declaration or convention? What does this have to do with this subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U108	Thank you for your question. The Member States of the Council of Europe have all ratified the Lanzarote Convention this year. It entered into force already in 2011 and obliges the countries which have ratified the document to criminalise certain activities involving children under 18 years of age, such as the involvement of such children in prostitution and pornography. Similarly, it has been pointed out that it must be considered a criminal offence to engage in sexual relations with a child and to use coercion, force or threats, to abuse trust, authority or influence over a child, even within the family, or to abuse a child's particularly vulnerable condition, which is primarily caused by mental or physical disability or dependence. It has also been said that the age of sexual self-determination is defined by the law of a specific country as the age allowed by law for sexual activity, and to that end, the countries must choose the age they consider appropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U109	Let's try it again. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U110	Good manager! I don't know if my question was even heard, because the comms disappeared again. Any word at all? Is it even worth repeating?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U111	I couldn't hear you. Ask me again.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U112	I asked that we have many esteemed colleagues in this Chamber, middle-aged men who would like to marry a 12, 13, 14-year-old and then have sexual intercourse. How does this go with your bill? A gentleman may want to, but a 12-year-old may not yet understand what's good?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U113	Thank you for your question. I very much hope that adults will perceive their responsibility and, of course, this act is punishable by criminal penalties. But I don't know these people in this hall. Perhaps, Peter, you can tell me about your party who these people are, who have such thoughts on their mind?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U114	It was the people who proposed amendments to a draft referendum. The procedure, Peter Ernits!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U115	The good President has already said that we have here the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the leader and secretary-general of a large political party, and so on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U116	Well, I don't see any more questions. Thank you very much to the waitress. I'm calling Marek Jürgenson as the rapporteur for the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U117	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen in this Chamber and behind the computer screens! The first reading of this draft law took place in the Committee on Legal Affairs on 3 May this year. President Jaanus Karilaid, members of the commission Marek Jürgenson, Sulev Kannimäe, Uno Kaskpeit, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Heljo Pikhof, Anti Half Office, Urve Tiidus, Vilja Toomast and Commission officials were present. In addition, Markus Kärner, Deputy Chancellor of Criminal Policy of the Ministry of Justice, was also invited to discuss the subject. Heljo Pikhof also gave us an overview of this draft, as he just did in this Chamber, which Markus Kärner was supplementing. He had to add that the Government of the Republic did not state its position on the draft, as on 30 April the Ministry of Justice sent its own draft on raising the age line to the coordination circle. The Ministry of Justice accompanied stakeholders in drafting the draft and, on the basis of discussions, also put 16 years of age on the age limit for sexual self-determination. The Ministry of Justice laid down in its draft the distinctions between consensual sexual relations between minors and proposed that sexual relations within the age group of 15 to 20 should be allowed, i.e. the maximum age difference may be five years. Markus Kärner also said that the Ministry of Justice did not consider it necessary to increase the penalty rates in the draft. But according to the bill, the marriage clause is amended, allowing a 15-year-old to get married with the permission of the court. This age line is also planned to be raised to 16 years of age. Markus Kärner added that the provisions of pornography and erotica are currently distinguished. The proposal also proposes raising the age limit for erotics from the age of 14 to the age of 16. The draft has further introduced specific provisions to exclude guilt, which, according to the Ministry of Justice, are in line with the relevant European Union Directive. Markus Kärner also said that this would automatically mean that when 14 years of age and younger than 12 years of age do something together, 14 years of age will automatically commit rape with a penalty rate of 6 to 15 years of imprisonment. The bill raised the age limit of inability to understand to 12 years of age, now it is 10 years old, but only when the other half is an adult. In addition, the draft provides that when 16 years of age is under 12 years of age, it is punishable, but sanctions are easier. Markus Kärner also said that it is difficult to say whether this is the best solution because it is a very complex issue, and the Ministry of Justice expects feedback from the coordination circle. The rapporteur, Heljo Pikhof, asked questions at Tarmo Kruusimägi. What does the term "childhood" mean? Is that something to do with the new age limit? Heljo Pikhof replied that he was certainly younger than 12 years of age and 14 years of age was rather a youth. Tarmo Kruusimäe asked further whether the 13-year-old was, according to Heljo Pikhof, a child, to which Heljo Pikhof replied that he considered the 13-year-old to be a child. This discussion was complemented by Markus Kärner. The current law does not use the term "childhood" in any of the constituent elements of the crime, but it is used in the titles of the formations. In the context of sexual offences, the current Penal Code has been referring to younger than 14 years of age as a child. This draft should refer to those under 16 years of age. Heljo Pikhof, in turn, asked whether the draft plan was to amend the titles in the Penal Code, to which Markus Kärner replied that this was not provided for in the draft, because the term "childhood" does not have any meaning in its substance. According to Tarmo Kruusimäe, the term "young" could then be introduced into the law and the word "child" could not be over-regulated. There was no further discussion on this subject. After hearing Tarmo Kruusimäe's proposal, the Commission decided to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by today, 11 May. All the members of the Commission agreed to this. It was also decided to appoint Marek Jürgenson as co-rapporteur in this regard and to propose that the first reading be stopped. There was a consensus on this, too. The deadline for amendments was set at 4 p.m. on 25 May. There was a consensus on this, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U118	Thank you. There's some questions for the waitress. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U119	I have a comment because my name was called. But you were forced to call it, because I was at the committee meeting. I want to say that when we look at the Child Protection Act, it says immediately: this law considers children to be up to 18 years old. In fact, we have a question raised several times in the Committee on Legal Affairs, who is a youth, who is a teenager, no teenager, is known about what age is a child, etc. I think that, in fact, the law should also deal with this unambiguously. Thank you for your report.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U120	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U121	No further questions. Thank you. We can move on to the negotiations. From the Centre Party Group Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U122	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good transmission monitors! I must admit that I am pleased that the subject of raising the age limit for sexual self-determination attracts all the political parties represented in the Riigikogu. It is clear that this is a very important problem for society. It is not enough for everyone to decide for themselves the limits of normality that a youth, or even a child, can have intercourse. There must be a law that defines what normality is and what is a crime. When it comes to our children and teenagers, there must be no double standards, we must guarantee them protection and security. The management of the Centre Party and the Riigikogu Group have repeatedly discussed raising the age limit for sexual self-determination. We support the proposal to introduce a new norm of 16 years of age. I would remind you that a study commissioned by the Ministry of Justice last year revealed that in life 45% of young Estonians aged 16 to 26 years have fallen victim to sexual harassment or sexual violence online or offline. Raising the age limit for sexual self-determination reduces the risk that our children and young people are at risk of becoming victims of unhealthy adult behaviour. Life shows that, unfortunately, there are adults in society who consider sexual relations with children to be normal. They must have received a specific signal. Such conduct is unacceptable and the infringement leads to a penalty. Many childguards, child psychologists and psychiatrists, sexologists and organisations representing children's interests stress that the current law does not provide adequate protection for children and adolescents, and that it needs to be amended and supplemented. It is not right to assume that every child can defend himself at the age of 14, when sexual relations with an adult are also permitted by law. Raising the age limit will help protect young people and ensure their age-appropriate and safe development. In most EU countries, including our neighbours, the age limit for sexual self-determination is higher than us, for example in Finland, Latvia and Lithuania, the age limit is 16 years, in Sweden and Denmark 15 years. Sexual abuse of children is a major problem in Estonia and we must take certain steps to prevent this. The answers must be found on a number of questions and must be marked in the law. The most acute debates will take place on the following issues: whether the age limit for marriage should also be raised to 16 years; the age difference between partners, if one or both partners are minors; how and if there is a need to tighten up the penalties for child abuse when the crime occurred either online or in real life. It is important to stress that, in any event, where sexual relations do not take place with mutual consent, this is a criminal offence, regardless of whether it is a relationship between young people or a greater age difference. With regard to the amendments relating to increasing the age of sexual self-determination of minors, a prior social and political debate is needed, as this is not just a criminal policy decision. This is a decision to involve experts from different fields. Raising the age line must not simply be a replacement of one number with another, but must be preceded by both substantive and legal analysis, so that the change that will eventually be made is in line with European perceptions, values and developments. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U123	Next Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U124	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, in Estonia the age limit for sexual self-determination has remained at 14 years of age. Although in a number of European countries this age limit is one year or two higher, we have not completed our discussions so far by amending the law so that the age limit is raised to, for example, 16 years old. And it really is a pity that the current change is due to a lot of public attention cases, but it seems that it has enabled the opening of the window and the coalition and opposition parties all to demonstrate willingness to move forward with the amendment of the law. We have already heard today what studies say about the extent to which the problem of sexual harassment and exploitation of young people is actually widespread. The damage involved has been repeatedly described by experts. Indeed, the younger and more frequent the exploitation, harassment, violence, the greater the damage, the longer the health problems and the impact on young people's lives. So there is a problem, the damage is great, and the current law does not protect children. That is why this amendment is needed. But, in addition to amending the law, it is, of course, necessary that sexual education is widely available and that bystanders, suspects, spotters understand their responsibility for protecting children and that the social attitude does not spread responsibility to children or blame the victim. This legislative amendment we are discussing today does not change attitudes in itself. But it'll give you a signal. Does it make sense to change the law to signal it? Yeah, I'm sure it is. The Alliance for Child Protection, women's doctors, psychologists, victim support workers all support this change for many years. It is not by chance that the young people who were used by football trainers were 14 years old. Regrettably, in a situation where young people aged 13 and 14 take part in the same practice, 14-year-olds are at a much higher risk of sexual exploitation, harassment. Doctors and psychologists who have been in contact with these young people in their work confirm that the perpetrators choose young people aged 14 or over and even expect the 14th birthday of the victim to commit the crime. A 16-year-old is already more mature, able to better recognise both manipulation and inappropriate action. So with the amendment of the law, we will save young people aged 14 and 15 from criminal punishment of fearless child-hunters. When you look at the public debate on either the amendment of the law or the cases that have been revealed, unfortunately, the victim's accusing attitude, the child's inability to say no, also emerges. They talk about the child's behavior, his choices, whether he told anyone about what was happening or not how he acted. But the other half, knowingly manipulated the child, convinced him, bribed, threatened, influenced by an adult who actually runs and controls it. So using this influence to meet our needs should be the focus of the social debate. And there is always a clear condemnation of such a course. Blaming the victim is, in fact, a justification for the perpetrator, and it should be avoided both in this Chamber and in the public. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U125	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U126	[[Remote connection]] The amendment of the law gives a signal to change attitudes more widely. Raising the age limit for self-determination is not just a legal issue. There are ethical questions, health issues, and this is going so painfully in our society, because so many of us have to reevaluate our past behavior, no matter what role we've been in. What was acceptable almost 30 years ago, when the limit of sexual self-determination was set for 14 years, is no longer acceptable. Thankfully, the flag system has also been introduced in Estonia. It is not enough for a young person who agrees that a relationship is appropriate to have an impact on self-respect that partners are equal. This must be a developmental and age-appropriate relationship, which also fits the existing background. These are all very important aspects that people working with children must bear in mind and, in fact, understanding them in society at large is very important. I hope that we can make these necessary decisions to protect children and move forward by raising the age limit for sexual self-determination, but also by changing the tonality of this debate in society. This amendment should have a broader effect than redrafting only a few paragraphs. This should be the beginning of a wider change of attitudes so that none of us, in some unfortunate cases, would talk about the victim, his wrong behaviour, but only and only condemn the act and pay attention to the perpetrator, his liability and the punishment according to the new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U127	Thank you. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U128	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, It is truly amazing that no one can identify those individuals and those forces and parties who once adopted a law that brought down the age of sexual self-determination of young people and basically made our children and young people a free prey on paedophiles. We know what the destiny of such a child is, all these psychic experiences, the burden of life, and so on. And at the same time, this sense of impunity on paedophiles, that one sector has now been set free for them. And that's how it's been for almost 30 years. It is probably possible to search for these political parties and persons in verbatim reports and documents, as well as the officials of the Ministry. But what is actually much more important is that we have now realised that it has been a mistake, a very big mistake, and today, it seems to me, at least, that all political parties have come to the same conclusion in this respect. The Estonian Conservative People's Party submitted a draft of similar or similar content already in the previous Riigikogu, but then unfortunately it was rejected. I do not know what has caused the change in this situation, either the fact that the Riigikogu configurations change every time by a third, or indeed the fact that this topic has received great public attention and the condemnation is quite clearly in our entire society. In any case, today we are very pleased with the situation in which, in addition to the draft of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, which we have already submitted, the drafts on the same subject are now also from other political parties. Today, the draft tabled by the Social Democrats is in the process, and the Government has also tabled a draft in exactly the same direction. I sincerely hope that there will not be any discrimination between the opposition and the coalition and the cutting of some kind of political profide, but that all of the same-sensory drafts presented will be consolidated, and all of them will be the basis of the discussions and discussions that we will be able to do here in the Riigikogu, not just the coalition going over the opposition by establishing its own draft with the methods of force. As we have heard, the government's draft does not consider it important to increase the levels of punishment for the sexual exploitation of minors. This is definitely something that needs to be seriously reviewed. There must be an increase in certain penalty rates. There are very many things that we should precisely resolve and argue in the greatest and best sense of association. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U129	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U130	I do not want to talk at length, but I would also like to emphasise here that the issue of those who have exploited young people and children is also very directly connected with this issue. They must not remain anonymous persons. All parents and childcare institutions must be able to know if any of their employees are involved in paedophilia or any other person with similar tendencies lives somewhere nearby, which is why our children are at risk. Therefore, a public paedophile registry should be established. This is necessary to ensure the safety of our children and to enable adults to control and protect their children. With this amendment to the law, raising the age of sexual self-awareness of children and minors, the very important aspect is precisely that we must protect our children and clearly define what is normal and what is not. I wish us all the best of luck and strength! And I believe that together we will get the best result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U131	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 348. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 4 p.m. on 25 May this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U132	Let's move on to item six. First reading of the draft law 309 on the amendment of the Rural and Agricultural Market Organisation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. The rapporteur is Urmas Kruuse, Minister for Rural Affairs. Please! We don't seem to have a connection. Let's try to start over. [[Silence.]] We don't seem to have a connection. Let's try to start over.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U133	[[Remote connection]] ... already in '97 for the first time...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U134	No, I'm not. I'll take a four-minute break. Four minutes break, then let's try to get back in touch.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U135	The break to resolve the technical problem is over. Let's try to keep up our agenda. Draft amendment of the Rural and Agricultural Market Organisation Act 309. Minister of Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse, let's try to get in touch. Please! We haven't been able to get in touch, but we'll do another thing in the meantime. We have received a proposal from the Estonian Reform Party Group to extend the plenary session today until 14 p.m. We shall vote on the extension of the sitting. I'm gonna make a hall call, too. I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party to extend today's plenary session until 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U136	There are 55 delegates in favour of the decision, against one, with one abstention. The decision was supported. Today's hearing has been extended. And now we're trying to get back in touch with Minister of Rural Affairs Urmas Kruus. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U137	Good afternoon, honourable Parliament. Can you hear me now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U138	Now you can hear and see.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U139	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good listeners! As early as 1997, valuable agricultural land and its importance and the need to protect it were discussed here in Parliament. The question is, why is there such a bill in front of you today? It has to be said that agricultural land and its soil still do not have legal protection. Only less than a quarter of Estonia's area is cultivated, and the need for land is exerting increasing pressure on agricultural land. This is the case elsewhere, and it is also the case in Estonia. Historically, settlements developed where fertile agricultural land was located. Thus, agricultural land around cities and other settlements is usually more productive. Agricultural land is usually also organised by land improvement and these parcels are well accessible, which means that it is convenient and less costly to build there than it is to do. Soil, however, is an unrecoverable resource. Soil formation is an extremely slow process, and it takes centuries for fertile soil to develop. The draft law on the protection of valuable agricultural land has been developed by the Ministry of Rural Affairs for nearly eight years. It is desirable that we continue to have the ecological, yet unrecoverable, natural resource, or soil, which is essential for food production. The food table of the world's nations will in the future be dependent on countries with fertile soil and water. The country's viability and independence, human health and the state of the environment are linked to the ability to feed its own people. So, with this law, the draft of which is being read in the Riigikogu today, we will ensure the preservation of one of the most valuable resources, soil and help secure the table for all of us. The entire agricultural area deserves to be maintained, but the draft provides that at least more than 2 hectares of land-for-profit land would be protected by restrictions, an array of land-for-purpose, village or village, with a weighted average soil bonus equal to or greater than the average Estonian average or county bonus. According to preliminary calculations, we have nearly 700000 hectares of valuable agricultural land. The draft was for the first time in the Riigikogu in 2018, but fell out of the procedure following the end of the term of office in March 2019. At that time, the State intended to assume the main tasks of guaranteeing the protection of valuable agricultural land. The current draft has introduced changes and provides that valuable agricultural land and the conditions for its protection are to be determined by the local government unit by an overall plan. This guarantees that local authorities will also have planning autonomy. The preparation of the draft has not been an easy task. Different stakeholders certainly have different interests and are often linked in one way or another to land use, usually to land construction. However, this does not mean that valuable agricultural land must not be built at all. In some cases, you might. The draft is without prejudice to the development of local governments. If, in the case of an overall plan, the other public interest outweighs the public interest in maintaining valuable agricultural land, this must be justified in a convincing way. And it is always important to consider alternatives, as we have about half a million hectares of agricultural land to which the restrictions of the law do not apply. Many discussions and discussions have been conducted in the preparation of the draft, nothing has been overlooked and proposals have been taken into account as far as possible. Only those which do not support the objective of the draft have been excluded from protecting the soil of valuable agricultural land. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! We are convinced that valuable agricultural land needs protection. And we hope that the debate on this draft in Parliament will be fruitful and the draft will be passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U140	Thank you. There's some questions for the waitress. Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U141	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. This is undoubtedly a very important issue and needs regulation. For a few decades, we have seen for ourselves how many valuable agricultural land have found another purpose. This matter has also been analysed by the Chancellor of Justice and the Chancellor of Justice has sent his assessment, which reached the members of the Committee on Rural Affairs yesterday. What is your assessment of the position of Chancellor of Justice in finding a solution to this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U142	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Honourable Asker Ivari Padar! Indeed, the Chancellor of Justice's attitude is skeptical or rather critical. His main criticism is that he sees here a certain barrier to the autonomy of the municipality. However, he has not said that Parliament cannot adopt such a law. He has also said that if it were to happen that Parliament would adopt this law and that it would be brought before the courts in constitutional terms, the judgment of the Court would not be predictable. This actually means that the Chancellor of Justice has indicated that it is as if the same objectives could be achieved by other laws.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U143	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U144	(Caugh connection) Thank you, President of the sitting. Very honourable Minister! I remember that years ago, indeed, this discussion and debate were partly interrupted because the question arose that if there is a valuable farmland and there is still a desire to build it, whether it can be done and, if so, what are the conditions. You said in your speech that, in some cases, valuable farmland can still be built. Perhaps you would like to highlight these particular possibilities to illustrate this subject. If this land is included in the overall plan, but it still wants to build up valuable farmland in the future, then it is probably necessary to change the overall plan, or how can we move on from there?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U145	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Honourable Asker. Indeed, if you look from the perspective of the local government, there is one clause in this law that concerns the other public interest. In the case of justified other public interest, a general plan may be established which does not ensure that a priori one hundred per cent of the value of agricultural land is maintained. Maybe some label that's in other public interest. It may be the development of rural education and culture or social protection arrangements, including certain items, the development of traffic or public transport, the development of communications network services, etc. These are all important aspects of the development of the life of one local government. One important point of this law is that before these decisions are made, other alternative options, before building on valuable agricultural land, will also be carefully considered.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U146	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U147	[[Remote connection]] Good manager and waitress! From whom must this valuable farmland be protected? How strong is this company, like, trying to take it away? And is it wise to grant this right to a local government? Local authorities rule themselves, but those who want to develop real estate can offer something in return and the municipality may not be able to say no.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U148	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. Personally, I would say that there is no specific company to be protected from. But if we look at the general trend in the Republic of Estonia as well as in other countries of the European Union, the pressure to build on agricultural land is felt and there is. As a result, countries have implemented and implemented this protection through one law or another. As I pointed out in my introductory speech, agricultural land is, historically, valuable, precisely at home. The Azums were formed where there was fertile soil. And as a result, there has still been pressure to build, say, a little outside cities and other settlements. Now the second part of the question, which concerned whether local authorities could handle this protection. While we in the Ministry of Rural Affairs are of the opinion that, within the framework of this law, local authorities can manage to protect valuable agricultural land. As you know, local governments currently have a lot of planning to do. They've already worked with the Ministry of Rural Affairs, and we have a lot of positive experience. So we cannot say in any way that a priori local authorities do not want or cannot, under certain conditions, rightly refuse if there is a desire to make use of the land for its intended purpose. Of course, if the plan introduces valuable agricultural land and considers that it needs to be changed locally, then a reasonable planning process must be carried out. But a decision changing the overall plan through a detailed plan means a very proper and thorough procedure, as well as public involvement. There are, in my opinion, legitimate decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U149	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U150	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President of the sitting. Good waitress! Once again, I come to the previous issue, a little wider now. Indeed, the land as a means of production, the land as a means of protection, this discussion in Estonia is very active. And my question comes from this area that there are agricultural areas that we also need to protect in nature conservation; there are semi-natural communities within Natura. And now we're going to protect the land as a means of production in the context of arable land. Is there any international experience, or is there a national plan to talk about forest land as an important valuable means of production alongside the fact that we are talking about forest as a protected and carbon-binding object?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U151	[[Remote connection]] Honourable questioner, I think I understand the meaning and the hint of your question. From the point of view of the Ministry of Rural Affairs and from the point of view of the farmland, the forest is certainly more protected than agricultural land, and that is why certain changes have been brought before you. It must be said, however, that in the case of land for sale, no current owner can be certain that he has a legitimate expectation that the land will be used for its intended purpose. But as I said earlier, there are certainly opportunities. But should the forest be protected as a means of production? In the Ministry of Rural Affairs, we have clearly focused more on the economy and production, both in fisheries and in agriculture, compared to the Ministry of the Environment. But that does not mean that we underestimate the importance of environmental protection. Should the forest be protected and can it be protected here certainly the Ministry of the Environment has the opportunity to take a greater initiative than it proves necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U152	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions. We can go to the report from the Committee on Rural Affairs. I'll call Aivar Viidik.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U153	[[Remote connection]] Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, the President of the sitting! Thanks to the Minister for a good presentation and a meaningful answer to the questions. Ladies and gentlemen, I will then give an overview of what has been said in the Committee on Rural Affairs in the context of this specific draft. The Committee on Rural Affairs has discussed this issue at three meetings. First and most importantly, on 15 March, which I will give a separate overview of. We then dealt with it on 22 March and the reason was that the government asked for this draft to be taken out of the plenary procedure of the Riigikogu. And then on 3 May, when the government asked to bring it back to the Riigikogu Hall. As has been said, there was a long and substantive debate on 15 March. To begin with, Tarmo Tamm and Merry Aart, Kaido Hoöölson, Erkki Keldo, Ivari Padar, Martin Repinski, Üllar Saaremäe, Andrus Seeme and Aivar Viidik attended the meeting. Visitors were invited to the Minister for Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse, ministerial advisor Evelin Oras, Deputy Secretary-General Marko Gorban of Agriculture and Rural Policy of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, Head of the Land Use Policy Department Katrin Rannik, Chief Specialist of the Land Improvement and Land Use Office of the same department Helve Hunt, and Head of the Legal Department Geir Veski and Adviser of the same department Ketlyn Roze. The debate was long and I am not going to read the minutes word for word, but I will take a look at the basics. First of all, Minister Urmas Kruuse noted that valuable agricultural land needs to be protected and gave a brief overview of the previous periods when this issue had been discussed. Mr Gorban presented the draft in greater detail. He first noted that Estonia's natural resources and natural resources are protected by the Constitution. Soil as an unrecoverable natural resource also falls under § 5 of the Constitution. He also introduced the relevant timeline and noted that around 10000 ha of valuable arable land has left use in relation to residential construction in 2007, representing an estimated total area of 650000 ha of valuable arable land, about 1.5% of agricultural land. However, since valuable agricultural land remains in the immediate vicinity of densely populated areas by about 200000 hectares, it still accounts for a significant part. About 1/3 of the surrounding densely populated areas are, therefore, land to which residential development areas may be created. Mr Gorban pointed out the two fundamentals behind the protection of valuable agricultural land. As the Minister mentioned, soil fertility indicators and surface parameters are important and restrictions could apply from an array of at least two hectares. Marko Gorban also briefly presented the practice of another European country. The main feature is the same everywhere: protecting valuable agricultural land and keeping it as productive land as far as possible for food production. Following the review of Marko Gorban, the questions asked by the members of the Commission were answered by the guests. First of all, Tarmo Tamm recalled history and asked what the Chancellor of Justice's position on this subject was. As has already been said, Mr Gorban also replied to us that the Chancellor of Justice had not opposed this amendment in principle, but has pointed out that there are indications in the draft law that this could restrict the rights of local authorities in planning activities. The Chancellor of Justice has also proposed that the constraints on valuable agricultural land be assessed by both the Environmental Board and everyone else who should give their consent and coordination in the planning process. Tarmo Tamm also asked about the issue of wind farms as well as possible solar power stations that could be built on valuable agricultural land. Marko Gorban replied that, according to the draft, the establishment of wind farms on agricultural land was not allowed, but was supplemented by Helve Hunt, who said that the local authority should decide on the matter as well as on the establishment of solar parks, but that in this case the land must be converted into land. In general, the Commission maintained its understanding that the Ministry would not directly want to impose restrictions on solar parks. Ivari Padar pointed out on the positive side that the bill was not rigid enough to prevent any kind of building. He noted that in the framework of this draft, young families, for example, wishing to set up their own farm and farm, still have the opportunity to do so. Aivar Viidik brought to the table a question concerning the views of the Estonian Association of Cities and Municipalities on this issue. Marko Gorban replied that the Ministry had a good close cooperation with the Union of Estonian Cities and Municipalities, but there was no such strong consensus. Thus, there may be a situation where not all local authorities may agree to this draft or the position of the Cities and Municipalities Association. Then there was the issue of whether, within the framework of this draft, a very rigid position would be created as regards the construction of housing as a whole or by the Ministry in general and its authorisation for valuable agricultural land. Mr Gorban replied that it was certainly not advisable to create some kind of confrontation, but to try to negotiate with the local authorities as much as possible so that the problems could be resolved. Tarmo Tamm also noted that in his view the content of the draft is not a prohibition, but rather a regulation. Minister Urmas Kruuse also agreed to this. Member of the Commission Merry Aart noted that this was an important and necessary draft. He asked whether the valuable agricultural land masses were also displayed separately in the Land Board or in the PRIA card centres. Helve Hunt replied that yes, it will be done and it will be reflected on the relevant map. Andrus Seed, a Member of the Commission, wanted an explanation of the admissibility of building a dwelling on valuable agricultural land. He asked what would happen if, after coordinating the overall plan, there was a desire to build a dwelling on valuable agricultural land. Does the municipality or the Ministry decide whether it is acceptable to do so? Helve Hunt explained that the construction of residential buildings is still carried out according to the general plans established by the municipality. The debate has been drawn up on a large scale. The committee agreed that the deadline for amendments is 10 days in accordance with the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act. It was also decided to propose that 309 be placed on the plenary agenda by 24 March, which has now become 11 May. This was done by consensus, as was the proposal to end the first reading of the draft and to appoint Mr Aivar Viidik, Member of the Rural Commission, as the representative of the lead committee. Thank you. That's all for me.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U154	Thank you very much. There are also questions for the rapporteur. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U155	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Aivar! I have such a two-part question. First of all, you indicated on several occasions that someone who went to the committee spoke about the history of this bill, talked about some different options, but you didn't tell me what history was. I don't want to hear all the history right now, but maybe very briefly, maybe since re-independence or whatever. Have there ever been any conflicting moments or fights on this subject before? And the second question. In recent years, we have often seen that the state is trying to establish some sort of national special plan for the large investments needed, but they have still been upset because of the opposition of local people. Can this draft be opposed to such major future investments and to industrial companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U156	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Valdo! When I answer the first part of the question, I can comment so much that since my career as a member of the Riigikogu is relatively short, I do not know this whole history. There was no very detailed discussion of this either, although the Minister, in his presentation, touched on it a little. What I do know and what was said is that the draft on this topic fell out of the procedure due to the change in the composition of the Riigikogu. Before the elections came up, the bill could be processed in full. The second part of the question concerned the coercion of the state and the activities of the municipalities. I dare confirm that the whole debate was still about how the state and municipalities could cooperate with each other and that the state would not interfere with the autonomy of the municipality in planning activities. It's more of a regulation and an agreement than such an imposed thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U157	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U158	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good Aivar! It has been said that valuable farmland is not what is in cities, but some of our cities are not a real city. The city of Pärnu extends to Varblani and is one of the largest areas in the world. Paide among the fertile soils is also a very large city. But my question is, this 18000 hectares of valuable farmland in cities, which is not counted as this, how much are there in two so-called false towns: Pärnu and Paide?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U159	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Unfortunately, I have to say I don't know how to answer that question, but I'm sure the Ministry can answer that question. And certainly also some Pärnu or Paide people who are on the spot. Unfortunately, this allocation was not discussed at the Commission meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U160	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. We can move on to the negotiations. I don't see any negotiation requests. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 309 be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 25 May at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U161	Today's latest item on the agenda, seventh: First reading of the draft law on the prevention of unfair commercial practices in the agricultural product and food supply chain initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Urmas Kruuse, Minister for Rural Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U162	[[Remote connection]] Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good listeners! Let me introduce the draft law on the prevention of unfair commercial practices in the agricultural product and food supply chain drawn up by the Ministry of Rural Affairs. The main objective of this draft is to protect the sellers of agricultural products and foodstuffs from unfair commercial practices of buyers. The draft establishes the basis for combating unfair commercial practices in business-to-business relations in the agricultural products and food supply chain. It should be noted here that Estonia is one of the four Member States where there was still no national law on this matter. In Estonia, these issues have mainly been regulated by the Law of Obligations Act, which regulates contractual relations, and it has been possible to apply to the courts to protect your rights. In the future, in addition to the possibility of recourse to the court, companies will be able to contact the Competition Authority. The draft legislation transposes into Estonian law the provisions contained in the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on unfair commercial practices in the agricultural and food supply chain in business-to-business relations, established for the same purpose. The aim of the Directive is to establish a minimum standard of protection for the Union by harmonising Member States' measures to prevent unfair commercial practices. The draft provides for transactions and acts relating to payment deadlines and the conditions for deliveries and sales as unfair commercial practices. This draft lists 16 unfair commercial practices, nine of which are prohibited in any case and always by the buyer. I will give you examples of what exists in the draft materials. For example, it is prohibited to pay for an agricultural product and food later than 30 days from the date set out in the draft, to cancel an order for an agricultural product or a foodstuff at such short notice that it cannot reasonably be assumed that the seller will find another way of marketing and using the product. However, there are also seven other so-called "conditional commercial practices," which are prohibited unless they are agreed in advance in a format that can be reproduced in writing. For example, it is prohibited to return an agricultural product or food which has not been sold to the seller without payment for the products not sold or for their disposal, to charge a fee for making the seller's agricultural product or food available on the market, storage, display or listing, etc. Such transactions do not produce legal effects and are invalid from the outset. Failure to comply with the prohibitions results in penalties for the purchaser provided for in the draft. The legislation transposing the Directive must be in place or published in the Member States by 1 May inclusive, with a date of entry into force of 1 November 2021. Honourable Riigikogu, I would like to ask you to approve this in the process of processing this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U163	Thank you. There are questions for the waitress. Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U164	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I have such a world-view question. I do not know how many precedents we have had where, in fact, the European Union and the Member States are getting into the liberal market economy with the right force. As a representative of the liberal party, what kind of assessment do you make? Is this draft a risk that we can talk about excessive interference in the functioning of the market?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U165	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. Why this so-called "minimum directive" came about in the European Union was linked to the fact that complaints became quite large and sellers and food producers were becoming increasingly difficult. On the one hand, there was great competition and price war in trade, but primary producers and industries were no longer able to stand up for their reasonable return. This was one of the reasons why this directive came into being. And, in fact, even before this pan-European regulation came into existence, many countries had started to regulate it. And certainly these countries cannot be called non-liberal and non-democratic. Indeed, at first sight it may seem that there is too much intervention, but if we go into these issues in substance, we will see that there is, in fact, a desire to strike a better balance between traders, or sellers, and buyers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U166	Thank you very much. There are no further questions for the Minister. Let's move on to the co-report. On behalf of the Committee on Rural Affairs, Tarmo Tamm is performing. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U167	[[Remote connection]] Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I shall give you an extract from the minutes of the meeting of the Committee on Rural Affairs of the Riigikogu No 102. The meeting of the Commission took place on Monday 3 May 2021, chaired by Tarmo Tamm, Merle Kruusimägi in the minutes, Merry Aart, Kaido Haöölson, Ivari Padar, Martin Repinski, Helir-Valdor Seeder, Andrus Seed and Aivar Viidik were also present. Urmas Kruuse, Minister of Rural Affairs, Marko Gorban, Deputy Chancellor of Agriculture and Rural Policy of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, Kristel Maidre, Head of the Agricultural Policy Department, and Janeli Tikk, Head of the Office for Agriculture and Food Development of the same department, and Ingrid Raidme, Deputy Head of the Legal Department. On the agenda, the Government of the Republic initiated a draft law on the prevention of unfair commercial practices in the agricultural product and food supply chain, 377 discussions on the appointment and first reading of a rapporteur for the lead committee. The Minister gave a very thorough overview of its content, and I do not think that I will repeat the Minister's presentation in the Commission. But I am committed to what the Members of the Commission have asked for. Ivari Padar asked which unfair trading practices are most common in Estonia. He agreed that supervision should be carried out by the Competition Authority and asked how much it would cost to carry out additional tasks. Urmas Kruuse replied that the most serious problem was the payment deadline. Some producers have claimed that their average payment period is 43 days, but generally 60 days. Another common problem is the additional costs for suppliers, such as "shelves' fees, advertising and marketing costs, additional logistics costs, as shops currently require daily supplies because there is no stock in the store, and there are different requirements for tare. Kruuse said that according to the Ministry of Justice, six new employees would be needed in the Competition Authority and that it was estimated that the additional cost of monitoring would be EUR 600000 per year. According to the Ministry of Rural Affairs, two employees would be sufficient. The final cost will be clear after the planned restructuring of the work at the Competition Authority. Tarmo Tamm asked whether the Directive sets certain deadlines or rates of charges, for example for keeping goods in storage, or whether it is up to the Member States to decide on this. Urmas Kruuse replied that the directive concerned the time limit for payment for delivered goods. Marko Gorban added that charging for storage was one of the practices that would be prohibited if the conditions had not been agreed in advance in a format that would allow for reproduction in writing. Tarmo Tamm asked what was the subject of the greatest contradictions and disagreements at the inclusion stage. Urmas Kruuse replied that the biggest differences were trade-related, and discussions also arose with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The problem was, in particular, the 30-day deadline laid down in the draft for both perishable and long-lived goods. In the case of perishable goods, the Directive provides for a period of 30 days and 60 days in the case of long-term goods. The 30-day deadline chosen in the draft is intended to reduce the administrative burden and ensure a reasonable time for payment. Longer payment periods are particularly burdensome for primary producers and workers and suppliers do not dare to argue about repression. Some trade chains have confirmed that they have no problems with deadlines, as they are paying for perishable goods quickly within 14 days. Tarmo Tamm pointed out that the aim of the directive was primarily to protect the producer and to avoid holding money in the hands of the merchant and delaying payments. Then there were procedural decisions: to propose that 377 be placed on the plenary agenda by 11 May, to propose that the first reading of draft 377 be stopped, to appoint Tarmo Tamm, Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs as rapporteur. All the decisions were consensual, with Merry Aart, Kaido Hoöölson, Ivari Padar, Martin Repinski, Helir-Valdor Seeder, Andrus Seede, Tarmo Tamm and Aivar Viidik voting in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U168	Thank you very much. There are also questions for the rapporteur. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U169	Good manager and good Tarmo! Trade chains are powerful and large, and there are many and they can 'control' producers. What are the main repressions currently used by manufacturers by trade chains?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U170	[[Remote connection]] This draft is to ensure that the producer is more protected, that it is not possible to delay payment deadlines and that producers receive their money in time. As I mentioned in the report, some trade chains are already willing to make payments within 14 days. I think that the large number of chains of commerce also creates such competition that who is more honest with the producer, above all, the producer wants to go to it with his goods. So competition may be beneficial, there will be a choice: who is a merchant with good financial discipline and who is not. This bill serves this purpose, so that the producer can be protected.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U171	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. We can move on to the negotiations. From the Social Democratic Party Ivari Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U172	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This is a very important and ground-breaking draft. Yeah, that's right. I do not know how much we have been discussing recently such drafts, where, in one way, another way or third, national coercion and common agreements between the European Union are being implemented and where it is really evident that countries are intervening. Countries intervene in the functioning of the market, countries intervene in the way the market has so far regulated itself. The whole food sector is an extremely important area because we want to eat every day. And it is clear that in this area, the producer wants a higher price for his product, the consumer wants a lower price. Mentality tends to be that milk comes from the store and money comes from the wall. And this whole debate is between producers, processors and traders, supermarket chains. Both in the European Union and, I understand, it is still the case throughout the world that the trade chains are the forces that are consolidated, very powerful and actually regulating agricultural policy in the countries. That's right. I have looked at a Dutch report that says yes, Dutch agriculture has evolved, there are many people, but the whole agricultural sector is regulated by seven trade chains. That's right. And now it's come down to looking for solutions. When I was a Member of the European Parliament, the search for these solutions in the European Parliament was very much a matter of speech. It was led by Mr Castro, former Italian Minister for Agriculture. A possible solution has been found to try to find a balance. Because, yes, the agricultural sector itself and also the processing industry have become weak in negotiations with consolidated chains of goods. And here comes the current minimum standards that we are discussing today. There's one more thing I'd like to say. In the context of this whole debate, it is extremely primitive that when it comes to agricultural policy, there is always a tendency to talk only in the context of how much money the European Union can receive under the common agricultural policy and how much State subsidies will be granted. Grants are important. The European Union's common agricultural policy is an important matter. But in addition to this dimension, there are many aspects that need to be discussed in such harmony. And one aspect is this final phase, or trade. I am firmly on the side of the primary sector, i.e. the primary producer, in this dispute, so that it is said. I hope this will be a nice debate. One aspect of the debate on how the situation varies from country to country is that the collective action of agriculture is in a very different position from country to country. In the old democracies that enjoyed peaceful development, joint action and the organisation of farmers are at a very high level. We can see this, for example, in the case of Finland: Finnish cooperatives have expanded to the territory of Estonia with their activities. And then there are countries where the collective action of farmers is at a very weak level, and is still developing. This, too, is a very important aspect of this whole dispute... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U173	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U174	This, too, is a very important aspect of this dispute as to how strong the party talking to the trade chains is and how organized it is. In Estonia, we have two or three good examples of very good organization. For 30 years, I've been on the subject of how to organise it better, how to make cooperatives work better. It's going really hard. It's going really hard! And now, if a new strategy plan is to be drawn up within the framework of the European Union's common agricultural policy, one element of this strategy plan should certainly be how to improve farmers' market position. One thing is what we are discussing here today. It is a chain of trade and a minimum level of trading chains. On the other hand, it is how the primary producer is able to organise and negotiate. This is an extremely important aspect that must come to this whole issue. I am immediately upset when the only way to get money out of the state budget is to talk about agricultural policy. Public budget money is an important thing, it is necessary, but it is not the only player in this whole process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-11_U175	There are no more requests for words in the negotiations, I will close the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 377 be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 25 May at 5.15 p.m. Today's trial is over.
