ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U1	Good colleagues, break ends, let's try to move on. The question should be answered by Andres Sutt, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology. We're trying to get back in touch. Minister Sutt, please! Let's try again to give the microphone to Minister Sut. Good fellows! I don't think we're gonna be able to get through. But since a member of the Riigikogu asked, the minister should also answer him. That means we're taking another break. Let's take a break for another five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U2	Good fellows! The break taken by the manager is over. We are now trying to reconnect once again with the Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology Andres Sut. Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U3	Yeah, hello! I can hear you and I can see you well.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U4	Good evening. Thank you. This connection's working. Yeah, that's good.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U5	I hope you can hear me and see me now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U6	I have a request to cut him off for a moment. Thank you. I now ask to give the floor to Riina Sikkut, a member of the Riigikogu. Maybe he's willing to ask his question again because, according to my information, the minister didn't quite hear it. So, Riina Sikkut, please ask your question again.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U7	Thank you. I asked about the focus areas of TAIE how they were put in place and what the state's instruments are to channel cooperation with entrepreneurship, research and development activities into these areas, and also to set these narrower priorities if there is no additional funding for higher education and paid higher education and research money does not grow. How can the state achieve the priorities of these areas of focus, the achievement of the objectives set by the state, be affected at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U8	Thank you. I'm asking for a microphone for Minister Sut.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U9	Thank you, Riina, for the question. And I apologize again for having a little blackout. Focus areas were established in a long and in-depth consultation and discussions that took more than a year. If the question is how we can better organise cooperation between entrepreneurship and science and what these levers are, then I will simply give some examples of real life. If, for example, we have only one third of exporting companies who see digitalisation as their competitive advantage, or only one fifth of companies today have thought about what their strategy is to reduce their carbon footprint, it is clear that there is a great potential to achieve stronger competitiveness, precisely through applied research and digitalisation. And since there is currently little cooperation between companies and universities in the field of applied research, this is certainly one way of bringing more money into science. At all the meetings I have held with both universities and businesses, both sides have expressed a very clear willingness: yes, we want to do together, we have the capacity. And that's why I'm optimistic. Speaking of applied research separately, an applied research programme has now been piloted through EAS, which was of great interest. But I think we need to take a step forward from there and make applied research systematic, just as it is in Finland, Singapore, America and Germany. It is also possible to get funding there. So I see that these levers exist. And, as I said, the combination of KredEx and EAS is one of the ways in which we create applied research capacity for universities and businesses with this connection. There are so many untapped opportunities, but I'm sure these opportunities will be used, and we're actually moving on pretty fast from here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U10	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U11	Thank you for the floor. Minister, thank you very much. Of course, you can say that this is not directly your responsibility, that you will only be dealing with all of this in a few years' time, but for us to be able to talk about innovation at all, we need to have people who are creative and who have developed their talents growing up. You are a member of this government office, who has just decided to cut half the money from one very successful support measure, the activities of young people. Thousands of young people will most likely miss the opportunity next year to go to different circles of nature, precision and technology, and to a great many other circles, which are specifically engaged in the development of their creativity, without which no unicorn is likely to be born today. As a member of the cabinet, are you not concerned about the decision taken by your colleague, the Minister of Education?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U12	Children's recreational education and education in general are clearly important, and my colleague, the Minister of Education, has never said that they do not need funding. After all, recreational education is also financed by local authorities, and I think we need to find solutions here together and find them. Once again: if we take R&D&I as a long-term strategy and the opportunities that Estonia faces when higher education and entrepreneurship interact better, the key question for me to reach innovation is that we must raise and teach our young people in a way that they want to see beyond Estonia's borders, they want to be innovative. When we talk about science and innovation, it is inevitable that it will be, and I think it is very good with a global dimension. After all, we do not do any inventions to make it applicable only in Estonia. I believe that any innovation, whether it is in science or it is in business, is clearly aimed at bringing Estonia to the map of the world bigger than we are now. And I think that all steps in this direction are necessary when starting early education. When it comes to funding, it is my desire to find the opportunities for the economy to grow more quickly when it comes to entrepreneurship. And to do so, we need much more private capital investment and much more risk-taking and international ambition than we do today. If we look at it in a very simplified way, 1 billion more GDP means roughly 300 million more tax revenues. The three billion more GDP represents a billion more tax revenues. It is also my task to focus on how GDP will grow in a sustainable manner faster than the present potential. And that is where innovation is central. So I believe that this is also the contribution that the government as a whole will make so that the growth potential of the economy is greater. And I believe that we are also working to achieve the R&D&I objectives in order to ensure that children's education, including recreational education, will be increased by funding in the future, not less. So we are also thinking about increasing revenue, and that is definitely what we are doing in the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U13	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please! Dear Tarmo Kruusimäe, you are not to be heard. I'm gonna ask you to cut the connection to Tarmo Kruus Mountain for a moment. Let's do the experiment again. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U14	Good waitress! How much do you see as a partner in cyber defence? There are young people up to the age of 26 who are very enthusiastic. Would you be willing to contribute financially, because only a warm handshake would be enough?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U15	Cyber Defence League and the cyber unit in the Defence Forces are certainly very important in the key to innovation. If we look at the European Union and look at this particular interest, which is a dual use, both for civil and defence purposes, of technology and innovation, including in the cyber field, then this is another place where I believe we have the opportunity to bring more money from the European Defence Fund to Estonia. I think this is also a broader issue. If we take Horizon Europe, which is now the source of funding for the new period, plus the money that can be obtained through the European Investment Bank and the European Investment Fund, our success will depend very much on how bold and good ideas we can go out. Of course, historically the defence industry has always been one of the drivers of innovation. That is why, in my opinion, it is also very important that Estonia continues its space programme. This is also an area where each solution is clearly innovative. So defence and civil cyber cooperation will certainly also provide opportunities for additional funding from Europe, and also in the private sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U16	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please! I'm sorry, I'm sorry! One question is, and you have asked your question. Thank you. No, it's not procedural either, because it doesn't say "hand." Minister, there are no further questions for you. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. Before that, Mr Marko Šorin, Member of the Committee on Culture, I would like to ask you to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U17	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, On 14 December last year, members of the Committee on Culture and members of the Committee on Economic Affairs met at a joint session where two ministries presented the development plan for Estonian R &amp; D, innovation and entrepreneurship 2021-2035. It should be said that this was not, at least, the first time in the debate in the Committee on Culture, because there was a debate in the Commission about six months before that, that we would like to have access to input materials earlier, and that was what was first introduced to us in March. I am not going to make a long review of what the representatives of the two ministries told us. It should be said that these were ministers of the previous government, Jaak Aab, Minister of Education and Science, and Raul Siem, Ministry of Economic Affairs. And since both men welcomed the very circumstances that we have already heard today, let me not repeat that. The meeting was attended by Toomas Asser, from the Council of Rectors, who said that he represented six public universities and that the role of doctoral students had been recognised by the Rectors. According to Asser, a combination of science and entrepreneurship, highlighted for the first time, is also worth highlighting, which provides a better basis for progress. Asser also acknowledged the increase in research funding to 1% of GDP. He also confirmed that a large part of the proposals made by the Council of Rectors had been taken into account in the R&D&I programme under consideration. Rectors consider it important to maintain a strong basic science. Continuing funding for centres of excellence is very important. At the same time, Asser pointed out that the strategy's governance scheme was three-tiered. This, it seems to the Council of Rectors, is too complicated. He expressed the opinion that the lead committee could be smaller. Why not reduce the number of ministerial representatives and increase the involvement of scientists? Ivo Suursoo, vice-president of the Confederation of Employers' Confederation Council, was also present from outside the Ministry, who gave an idea of why the adoption of the development plan is important and what are important aspects for the private sector. He pointed out that there is a very entrepreneurial business sector in Estonia, and if you look at the success of a separate start-up community, you can say that Estonia is the number three start-up country in the world. The image of Estonia as a technology state is outstanding. The added value of the technology sector has increased very rapidly. However, there is no productivity growth in the normal economy in a good way and this development plan is well addressed. He also pointed out that according to Statistics Estonia, Estonian entrepreneurs are very innovative, namely 73% of companies are active in innovation. This sounds good, but research-intensive product innovation is less than 8% of businesses. This is one of the biggest disadvantages of using our information technology in manufacturing companies. And then the questions of the Members of the Commission came to the speakers. First, Jüri Jaanson asked who acknowledged the development plan and expressed the hope that it would materialise. He asked if there was an Applied Research and Incubation Centre with the scientific staff there. The Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Viljar Lubi, replied that the centre would not be established as such at the moment. So far, applied research is carried out either by universities or by research and development centres. If in the future we can see that Estonia has the capacity and demand to operate more narrowly in some sectors, then we can also build a centre where there are scientists who help entrepreneurship. Here today, too, a questioner drew attention to social sciences. Katri Raik addressed the same issue at the hearing. Indrek Reimand, Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Education, replied that 22.6 million additional euros will be added to the research budget of the Ministry of Education and Research next year, of which approximately 10 million will be used for doctoral reform. In addition, there is a plan to stimulate technological and development-intensive investments. Exports of goods and services could increase to 43 billion a year. Mr Purga pointed out that the explanatory memorandum stated that the concept of sectoral diversity had not been properly understood in the development documents. Indrek Reimand replied that it is indeed difficult to define sectoral diversity, which has been repeatedly pointed out by the Ministry. The position of the Ministry of Education and Research is that there is a problem of loss of diversity. This needs to be investigated and methods found to address it as well. There were also some questions concerning the metrics set out in the development plan. They were also answered. Annely Akkermann acknowledged the strategy's authors that ambition has been set at an extremely high level. According to him, the strategy focuses on entrepreneurship and its research intensity and the transfer of science. Akkermann asked what were the most important preconditions for Estonian companies to become more research intensive in order to increase productivity, and what is the most dangerous flock in achieving it. The Rector of the University of Tartu, Toomas Asser, replied that the most basic limiting factor is the existence of few competent people. The environment must be attractive for those who come to the doctoral studies, including doctoral studies in Estonian. According to Asser, this is a major disadvantage at the moment: there is no guarantee, there is no perspective. Doctoral studies in certain areas, especially information technology and communication, are 60% of people from elsewhere. It is not just a question of increasing the absolute number, but of creating an appropriate environment, which is much more complicated. Mr Sursoo also spoke as an entrepreneur. It was previously pointed out that the private sector should also increase its contribution to development and research. A size of 350 million is needed to achieve the 2% private sector participation. There are only two ways to make this possible: either more 300 companies must be created or the money must be brought to Estonia from outside. The Grand Soove also highlighted seven points that private business recommends to do so. It was also a question of who is the minister who will introduce this development plan in the large hall of the Riigikogu. There has now been a contradiction between the response and the actual situation of today, because at that time it was the knowledge that this development plan will be introduced to the grand hall of the Riigikogu by the Minister of Education and Research. As we have seen today, ministers have made an exchange. Mikhail Stalnukhin was also interested in quoting Estonian scientists. He was told that Estonian scientists are quoted in the world and about 10% of Estonian researchers' articles are 10% among the most quoted scientific articles in the world, but the ambition is to get at least 12.5 percentage points. For the sake of accuracy, at the end of the meeting, the Chair of the Economic Commission, Sven Sester, expressed the opinion that the discussion of the development plan would reach the large hall in January. It didn't come true. And now, when the Committee on Culture discussed this matter again last week, it was decided that the discussion of this TAIE, or development plan, would come to the big hall yesterday. By now, the date has changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U18	Good waitress, thank you! You have questions too. Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Actually, I have a question not for you, but for the minister, but for the rule I will not allow me to ask two questions, so I will put it to you. I very much liked the Minister's answers to the questions, and the questions themselves were very interesting. The answers were even more interesting, but they mostly concerned not research and development, but education. And I really liked the Minister's thoughts on education. Wouldn't it be better to look at science and education in one set? Because we are now discussing the development of science, how it can be exploited in industry, but the basis for this is not about education. We'll touch that one day.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U20	Thank you! Yeah, I totally agree. Indeed, the Minister's answers and the questions asked to him were extremely expert, despite the late hour of the evening. This format, however, gives me the opportunity to become a minister right now, I understand because it was your wish to ask the Minister a question. It is quite possible that this did not come up with either presentation today, but the discussions were concerned and pointed out that it was precisely through education and the work of researchers that knowledge transfer should achieve a higher level of contribution. However, as I remember, in one sentence I pointed out that entrepreneurs themselves also called this major disadvantage in our economy, that, despite the relatively high level of our science, the transfer of knowledge is not as high as we would like. And as one of the questioners said, I would remind you that this was the first questioner Jüri Jaanson who introduced his question with it, hopefully this development plan will also materialise. As several speakers pointed out, the objectives set are rather ambitious and require a joint effort on the science side, on the business side and on the education side.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U21	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U22	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Commission waitress, When it comes to asking and answering questions to the Minister, it is quite understandable that the Minister for Enterprise and Information Technology was primarily concerned with engineering, innovation and entrepreneurship. But indeed, as I pointed out to the Minister in my previous question, humanities and social sciences and medical science are very important, because the crisis has shown very clearly that we are experiencing a health crisis. The shortage of nurses is very great and, if it continues to increase, in the next crisis, we will not have those who treated people so that people can be employed in other areas of both engineering and entrepreneurship. Humanities and social sciences as well as medical science remain important. They shouldn't be opposed. But thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U23	Thanks, although I don't think I caught the question. But from all this introduction, I realized that it is precisely the social sciences and the humanities that are concerned. Katri Raik drew attention to this. Indrek Reimand, Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Education and Research, answered him, so I will now read the answer, even though it may not exactly correspond to the point of the current questioner. The answer to Katri Raigi's question of how the big picture of humanitarianity fits was that the Ministry of Education and Research will increase the allocations from the state budget for programmes for the development of Estonian language technology and digital culture. In addition, educational science activities will also be launched. Humanities also receive additional funding thanks to the larger amounts of basic general funding and research grants, which finance all areas. I understood that you also touched on medicine, given that the government decided at the end of last year that 1% of Estonia's gross domestic product would be transferred to science, which means that the amount to be directed to science is higher than it has been before. And hopefully it will affect all areas and ensure the sustainability of our lives.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U24	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U25	Thank you, good Chairman! Good Commission waitress! I had a question for the Minister, but I'll put it to you. The situation and time pose new challenges for us. And when I was talking here before about the Cyber Defence League, one of the other capabilities worth developing is also mainly related to information. That would be the promotion of Simic capability. I think that young people would be good pioneers here because young people can communicate with young people in a language they understand and with solutions that they understand. If we try to do some S.T.A.R.A.R. Three and four and five here, maybe the young would contribute with less resources to Simic's ability. Was this also discussed in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U26	Yeah, good question! And in itself, it would also very well introduce the next item, but in the meantime we will have to listen to a large number of speeches. The only way I can reply is by not specifically mentioning it in the Commission. But I can personally agree that young people understand young people very well and that young people are our future. Their involvement in our joint development is extremely important.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U27	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Commission waitress! I agree with my colleague, Mr Lotman, who mentioned that this subject actually goes hand in hand with the subject of education. What is going on in education, what is going on in higher education, gives a direct expression to research and development and to all the issues we are talking about in R&D&I. However, it still worries me that we are sneaking in paid higher education or at least part of paid higher education. How do you think paid higher education, which in fact means reducing access to higher education, could in the future affect research and development and the sustainability of our universities?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U29	Thank you. This is a very serious issue, and the Minister also gave it his own view. Of course, the best answer would be the Minister of Education and Science. It is understandable that when we are talking about development and innovation and all of this, only excellent education at an earlier stage can be an input. I agree that, when it comes to purely 'ceteris paribus' paid higher education, accessibility or accessibility would certainly be reduced. Certainly, if it ever comes to a debate in the future, we can still talk about the package. I don't think a paid education as such will be put to the fore easily and ferociously. Significantly more aspects need to be taken into account than simply the financial costs of using the student's own money or bank loan.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U30	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U31	Thank you, President of the sitting. A good colleague from Pärnumaa! The concept of regional education in Estonia has actually been under attack for some time. It has been said that Estonia is too small to provide education in addition to Tallinn and Tartu somewhere else. But my question is based on this same regionality and customer capacity. Indeed, universities often say: say what needs to be done to develop innovation and R &amp; D in certain regions in such a way as to win the economy in order to create jobs with higher pay. Was the whole concept about where this customer's capacity should come from in Estonia to order research and development projects that are well targeted and consistent and that would indeed hatch the development strategy of the region that is taking steps?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U32	Thank you. I welcome my colleague from Pärnumaa! There was no direct mention of this, but the representative of the Confederation of Employers pointed out that in countries with a long-term contribution of at least 1% of gross domestic product, the private sector, although with some delay, i.e. after years, will be able to significantly increase its contribution. So when we talk about the ideal formula of 1% by the state and 2% by the private sector, the private sector is not able to react so quickly. This 1% agreement was reached at the end of last year. However, he pointed out that, usually after a while, the contribution of companies will increase significantly. However, other measures need to be put in place to increase the contribution of the private sector. Research and development using public money alone is not as sustainable as expected.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U33	Thank you. In the debate on this item, everyone has a question for the rapporteur. Any more questions? Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U34	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I can't stop asking you the question I asked the Minister. I know that as a head of local government and as a person from the region, you certainly have an immediate experience with the additional funding for the activities of interest and the opportunities it has created. It created a wide range of possibilities for the creation of natural sciences and technology circles, which were not previously available in many places. Of course, the opportunity to develop our talents and creativity also grew a great deal. Here before, there was talk about education, about the sooner these opportunities are given, the greater the probability that they will be innovative and innovative people who will develop our lives. Is it not yesterday to talk about this TAIE in this context? If we cut off the opportunities for young people, what are we talking about here in the long run?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U35	Thank you for your question. It is true that my earlier life has brought me together with this very same support from the state of interest education. When this news came to the municipalities three years ago, the municipalities were, of course, extremely happy about it. After all, the additional contribution to the funding of recreational education helped to ensure that recreational education and recreational activities also became available in sparsely populated areas, and also made it more accessible to children of socially not so-insured families. At the same time, it also allowed the acquisition of funds for which the money was spent on a one-off basis but can be used for these years. The reduction of state funding for the education of interest may have some repercussions in Estonian municipalities, but since the state has given local governments much larger sums of money during the corona period or perhaps in the post-corona era, and we have had an administrative reform that has made the local authorities stronger, it is certainly possible to soften the sharp falls that could come from the fact that the money directed towards the education of interest has decreased and not disappeared. However, it is extremely important to have an education of interest and to provide an activity of interest, whether by the state or local authorities. And this topic is also an introduction to the debate on the next item on the agenda, where we will discuss the development plan for the Estonian youth field. So thank you for the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U36	Good waitress, thank you. No further questions! And now we're going to make another attempt to open negotiations. I open negotiations and ask the Riigikogu speech chair Eduard Odinets. Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U37	Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, I would have very much liked to see both ministers here today; the discussion would have been much more substantive in both areas. I hope that cooperation between the two ministries will be very effective. Tearing each other's decks does not occur either by financial means or by reporting on the development plan at a later stage. However, I would like to stop on some aspects that seem important to me as well as to other social democrats and talk about them a little bit more. First of all, it is, of course, very pleased that the funding of research from the public sector has reached 1% of GDP and is intended to keep it as such. The Social Democrats firmly believe that the percentage of research funding should be included in the law and should be at least 1%. The private sector contribution, which is significantly below the EU average, is worrying, but the measures set out in the new development plan will also bring about a breakthrough here. The issues of doctoral students and young scientists are concerned. We're seeing a constant decline here. If the number of doctoral thesis protected continues to fall in the same proportion, in a few years' time, we will have no science at all. The development plan aims to continue to increase the efficiency and attractiveness of doctoral studies. Hopefully, it will also produce results. The Socialist view is that doctoral student support should be at least the size of the average salary in Estonia, then we would have these young people and degrees would not be unprotected. Of course, the future of Estonian humanities and their funding are also worrying. The preservation of Estonian culture and language throughout the ages is one of the highest goals. This is quoted in many other national strategies and other documents, such as "Estonia 2035." Humanities study what makes us Estonia, Estonian society and Estonians. In this respect, the new rector of Tallinn University, my alma mater, Tõnu Viik, says that culture is the way of life of the great communities, the world view, the organisation of life and society, and all their achievements in spirit. The preamble to the Estonian Constitution also mentions culture in this sense. Tõnu Viik also says that this is not about the size of the people, but about their ability to develop their own culture and language. The R&D&I draft rightly states that humanities research is very important for the development of the Estonian state, society, nationality and language, including the study of the operational models of Estonian society, solving the development needs of society and supporting adaptation to global trends. It is important to develop this area even if it lacks direct economic value and potential. But in this case, how is it possible that in an Estonian country where the preservation of the mother tongue and culture is considered to be a constitutional value, the funding of humanities is significantly lower than in other disciplines? I will leave this rhetorical question in the air here. TAIE says: Activities in the field of a vibrant Estonian society, language and cultural space are a prerequisite and a basis for achieving the goals of other areas of focus. Implementation, however, is not just about supporting studies of Estonian language, Estonian history and culture or developing language technology. For example, smart specialisation, circular economy, tourism as part of an experience economy are related to humanities. Our success story of e-government and e-governance is certainly linked to the heritage of Estonian spiritual culture: beliefs, attitudes, values, work practices and so on. In the context of entrepreneurship and innovation, I would like to mention the creative industries as a separate issue. I gave a long talk on this subject during the thematic debate on the European Union's instruments in this Chamber, but I now recall that the promotion of creative industries has been based on the growth strategy of Estonian business in the last seven years, which has just ended its validity and where sectoral challenges and activities were described in the chapter on the competitive position. When reading the R&D&I draft, one can only assume and assume where the promotion of creative industries could fit. The question arises as to why the cultural and creative sectors are not considered as an economic sector within the framework of TAIE, which deserves intellectual property, creates prosperity and jobs, and provides creativity as a competence to address societal challenges. Creative economy is part of a smart and knowledge-based economy; the cultural and creative sectors are part of a thrill economy, increasing Estonia's reputation and contributing to the development of tourism and regional competitiveness. The issue of the development of the creative economy has been mentioned only on the subject sheet, which is an additional material for the development plan. Finally, the most important issue: the situation in higher education and the sneaking-up of paid higher education, thereby reducing access to higher education. Ladies and gentlemen, If the situation with the funding of higher education does not improve as a matter of urgency by contributing to higher education, we will have no research, development, innovation or entrepreneurship in a few years' time. We have already come so far that even the rectors of universities are willing to introduce even paid higher education, but sustainability can be ensured. According to a joint education agreement recently concluded by the largest organisations in the education and research sector in Estonia, supported by social democrats, state funding for higher education should be increased to at least one-and-a-half percent of GDP. At least the same level of funding needs to be ensured. I very much hope that the other parties will join this agreement and that it will become a new social agreement. There is no other option, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for your attention and I wish all of us good science and good innovation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U38	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu speech chair Jaak White. Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U39	Ladies and gentlemen and honourable technical staff, who must listen against our will. I must start again with the fact that the process of these development plans is not appropriate for a democratic parliamentary state. And, on the other hand, as Parliament's response, the time for handling this development plan is marked, when, I suppose, most Members are sleeping. And it is not a sign that these development plans are considered important. And I also don't know why this part of the process is called negotiation here, we just have group monologues here. But the R&D&I development plan has really worked hard, and if my opinion matters to anyone at all, I appreciate that this R&I development plan is one of the best development plans I have discussed here as a member of the Committee on Culture. But unfortunately, you could say he's one of the least bad guys. So let me talk about the pros and cons, so let me put them in opposite pairs. First of all, the general direction for linking Estonian entrepreneurship and science is, of course, appropriate, but these methods are not sufficient. There are also no references to the need to make the humanities and social sciences more Estonian-centred and to give preference to the direction of a high-level research conducted in Estonia so far. Nor is there a fixed need to make the criteria for evaluating and financing research projects more Estonia-centred. It is precisely these criteria, which may seem like small things, that are actually the key to the emphasis of Estonian research. Secondly, it is certainly appropriate to reduce the project orientation leading to the hyphenity of research, but there is still no indication of how to keep science competitive, to avoid stagnation and friendship of research groups and institutions, which is undoubtedly taking place in Estonia and maybe, as a result of the decline in project orientation, becomes an even bigger problem. Thirdly, an appropriate reference has been made to the insufficient follow-up of the scientific community and to the need to increase the efficiency and attractiveness of doctoral studies, but no attention has been paid to the problem of devaluation of doctoral level and quality of higher education at all. The doctorate is not about itself; it is about fixing one stage, in which letting the bar down does not in any way improve Estonian science or society. Fourthly, it is appropriate to draw attention to the small capacity of companies located in Estonia to create new business models and adapt and introduce new knowledge and technologies. The reason has been to attract foreign capital without choice, which results mainly in the state of assembly plants owned by foreign owners and of low-paid citizens. The solution is to support the establishment of domestic plants, but this has not been given sufficient attention in the development plan. Fifthly, the emphasis on supporting businesses or supporting them from export intensity to knowledge intensity and innovation is appropriate. At the same time, start-ups have been overestimated for no good reason and too much attention has been paid to them. In fact, the focus should be on all start-ups and attention also needs mature and traditional entrepreneurship. As a matter of fact, I must say that we must support what has proved its viability. Sixthly, the text has become more meaningful in the process, but there is still too much slogan, clichés and bureaucratic pulpit that does not really build trust in rational scientists and entrepreneurs. Seven. It is a good thing that the development plan has been sought to translate into targeted objectives, but some of the metrics are mechanical, not to say unnecessary. For example, 10% of the most quoted scientific articles in the world should include 12.5% of Estonian articles. Well, this kind of bibliometry has at least been ridiculing the humanitarians for decades. And at least in the humanities and social sciences, it has become very damaging, because scientists are rationally thinking people, and this basis of assessment also directs us to publish articles in English-language journals beyond the corner. Finally, there are targets, which may also be characteristic. If the distribution of Estonian research money is not more closely linked to the needs of Estonia's business and Estonian society, the current, predominantly foreign-owned assembly industry cannot ensure the interest of entrepreneurship in research development and innovation of the economy, nor can it provide enough added value. Under similar conditions as before, no other result can be obtained. Elementary! You don't have to be an experimental scientist to know that. In this case, the increase in private R &amp; D expenditure from 0.59% to 2% of GDP is also not realistic as a target. It's not real. The total increase in labour productivity is 110% compared to the EU average. Right now we have 74%. The increase in the number of scientists and engineers is also threefold unachievable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U40	Thank you. Now I will give the floor in the form of a remote hearing. Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U41	Good morning, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I have something good to say about this development plan. Of course, the same 1% is our new goal and a new sign that can only be enjoyed. I have lovely many things that I have heard in this hall, and I would mention some of them. The same speech chair has been said about how our research and production will blend together for research and development and how information technology will be the key to our success, leading us to the world map. Hugely beautiful words, but those words said from the same remote from which Jaak White just left, 27 years ago a member of the Riigikogu, Mihkel Kraav. It was then also said that we need research-intensive production, that our science must be world-class, that research results will reach production and create new high-paid jobs, that science in turn will win the level, etc. It was said here in the same chair that the system of student loans and scholarships had run out of time. We promised to do something like that in Germany or Singapore. We promised to stop the brain drain, call geniuses back from abroad, recruit talented people from other parts of the world to Estonia. And it was said in the same speech chair in 2007. I also have notes for the year 2007, which mention that the humanities and social sciences are also necessary for society, otherwise it will happen like a proud horse. I have also used the comparison of a horse in 2007: that science is not a three-legged horse. At the time, it was very difficult to break the understanding that the humanities and social sciences were so cheap that they did not need much money. I myself published the first electronic interactive monograph in Estonia in 1995; it cost a lot of money and eventually had to be cut off because the money needed to buy all the components of the interactive monograph legally was simply not. But the fact that humanities are not the sciences of the blackboard and cripple age, but also the high-tech sciences was already said. There are many topics that have already been discussed, and there is more to say to them. I'd rather nod with my head and not repeat everything I've said. For me, this is a good R &amp; D programme. But I'm worried. I don't want to attack that something's been done wrong, but I feel... I had to say that today I have already talked about it, not today, it was yesterday. But I had to say that as chairman of the Committee on Culture, I feel co-responsibility. If something is wrong, it is no longer possible to show Moscow or somewhere else that something was done badly. For me, the fruit of knowledge of good and evil is today's Tartu pharmaceutical plant in Estonia. For decades, all parties are saying that there must be research-intensive production. The Tartu pharmaceutical plant is the pattern we have been pursuing for decades. There is talk of how high-paid jobs will be created, and I mentioned this. They're talking today. The Tartu pharmaceutical plant would allow this to happen. They say you have to stop the brain drain. The Tartu pharmaceutical plant is one of the tools that can be done. It is said that there is a need for research-intensive productions that would reduce Estonia's dependence on foreign production and guarantee security in the area of pharmaceutical production, for example. This factory that I was about to talk about would strengthen our defence capabilities, contribute to the rise of the university, to the rise of the university's authority, and then we could soon talk about that we are not among 300 but somewhere in the 124th position, for example. But I want to scratch that wound even harder right now. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] We have good cooperation... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U42	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U43	We have very good partners in the Baltic Assembly, Latvia-Lithuania. And, you know, recently we talked to the Latvians about what the COVID has given to science. Latvian President Egils Levits spoke convincingly about the launch of high-tech research-intensive production in Latvia, which focuses primarily on the pharmaceutical industry, thanks to COVID. My question was, you're not doing very well. There was, for example, a major conflict between Estonia and Latvia, a war between the so-called donor bodies, where Latvia blamed Estonia and eventually they were guilty because they had not even developed a laboratory for the suitability of the donor body. I'll ask you where you get this industry. We call the talent back, we also hire people from Estonia. Jne, et cetera. At the moment, I hear that Estonia cannot come with us so quickly. Some people think that maybe the COVID will be over. At the same time, other countries admire what scientists in Tartu have done in this nasal spray story and so on. Leaving aside long distractions, aside from what has been said for decades and to which, interesting-interesting, we come back again and find these such good thoughts, I say this: I will get back my optimism and my faith in Estonian research and development when the Estonian state can help create Tartu's pharmaceuticals. By the way, I told the Latvians there was no way to get the money. As I already know, in Estonia I heard that tests alone to get to the pharmaceutical market are extremely expensive. The Latvians' answer was simple: the European Union is currently offering a zero-percent loan for the development of the drug route, but it needs to be guaranteed by the country. And then when I hear that the Estonian nasal spray's own research costs have been recovered by selling only one week, it seems to me that yes, we are talking the right thing, we are talking more and more, we are making a more masterful statement, but some things definitely have to be done. But what was said here about bibliometry, Jaak Valge, told us about it, is an old truth. And this is again one of the things we've taken over or been imposed on us. It is a very suitable method for scientists of nature and precision. That's where the scientiometry or bibliometry fit. Humanities, where there's a major medium monograph, they don't fit. We wait for action, and we work to ensure that these works do come! To whom we can count, Parliament must work, contribute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U44	Thank you. I'd like to ask Mikhail Lotman for a speech chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U45	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, We are discussing a development plan that is very ambitiously titled and contains many beautiful slogans. The aim of the development plan, we read, is Estonian research and development, innovation and entrepreneurship. They increase the well-being of Estonian society in their cooperation, etc. The design of the development plan follows the logic of ensuring the basic capabilities of the research system necessary for the functioning of society. Excellent! However, there is nothing in this development plan that guarantees the basic capability of the research system. This has only been declared, but the content of the scheme appears to be a'reverted pyramid'. At first there was supposed to be research, but in fact there is entrepreneurship, then there is innovation, then there are development and only then there is research in the back part of this pyramid and maybe there are marginal figures somewhere, like scientists who should develop this research, which in turn develops development and then comes innovations and entrepreneurship. No, we're talking business! It is symptomatic that the development plan for science and so on protects us not from the Minister of Education and Research, but from the Minister of Entrepreneurship and Information Technology Andres Sutt. And protects very successfully, but unfortunately not science. One drawback is the mere declarability of the research programme, which was also highlighted by a number of participants in the coordination circle. I quote the Estonian Research Council: "The development plan is very general, which is why it is not clear how ambitious targets are to be achieved. " The logic of this development plan and the design of the development plans at all is that we have a vision, then the goals that come from this vision, then there are resources that we can include, and then measures. And they all have to be connected. But what do we see? Instead of the vision on page 9, we read three dreams that are not achievable by the resources and measures offered, which is just a beautiful picture. The means to fulfill big dreams are too thin, but sometimes they're wrong. In the introduction, we can read a beautiful purpose. I quote: "Research and development and innovation are key to growth and business development. Investment in research and development will create new, smart and higher-income jobs, increase added value and support long-term growth. " This could only be accepted, as could the problem on page 6. I quote: "There are few people in Estonia who can and would like to do research and development. Research careers are not attractive in Estonia: there are few employees with doctoral degrees, research groups are small, doctoral studies are not attractive, research group funding is uncertain and career paths of researchers are not developed. " But, unfortunately, I do not find a solution to this problem in the development plan, and it is a screaming contradiction to the goal that I have read just now. I would add another aspect: the Estonian scientific community. Estonia has excellent scientists and we can be proud of Estonian science. But there's an extra problem here. The Estonian scientific community is ageing and shrinking. I was complaining about this by several representatives of the scientific world. Young talent does not remain in Estonia; they either leave science at all or, at best, abroad [research]. In Estonia, they see no perspective. And this scientific community is shrinking, not because we have a sharp decline in the number of capable young people, but above all because they lack clear career prospects in science. Simply put, there are no jobs. Why waste your youth for a master's or doctorate in such a situation? Unfortunately, not only does the development plan offer any solutions here, but it leaves this problem out of view. Moreover, it may be feared that some provisions may pose new risks. Take, for example, point 1.2 under the heading "Action lines to ensure the basic capability of the research system." I quote: "In order to ensure synergies between financial instruments and the sustainability of the research system, appropriate basic funding instruments (including basic funding) will be transformed into operating grants for research institutions." At present, basic funding and personal research grants are key instruments that can bring young people to science and keep them there both through start-up grants and other research grants and scholarships. The resources of the new PUTs decreased significantly this year. I would like to thank Minister Liina Kersna for finding an additional 4 million for the new PUTs. So the fall compared to last year is not two thirds, but only one third. In fact, it would be essential from the point of view of Estonian science that the number of PUTs and their resources increase. However, according to the new plan, the basic funding would no longer go to researchers, but I quote: the operating grants of research institutions, in other words to administrators. Now we are talking about funding. The 1% of GDP achieved, which is not even expected to be increased by 2035, does not even ensure that the current level is maintained. And it will perpetuate our already hopeless fallout from our northern neighbours, where this percentage is above three everywhere. There is also a frustratingly small private sector contribution to the development of science: at present it is 0.14%. However, there are no solutions in the development plan that could increase the contribution of the private sector. Unfortunately, I can't read everything and, unfortunately, we can't make any decisions here either. I would very much like to send this development plan up to date. But let's accept what we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U46	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Margit Sutropi! Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U47	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, who are still upstairs behind the screens, and it seems that there are still bright in the hall! The creation of development plans for education and research began several years ago. According to my recollection in 2018, the previous government ordered three expeditions from the Ministry of Education and Research, so-called vision papers, to think about where education, science, language and youth work will reach by 2035. We were also assured that I was one of the leaders of the vision groups that this would provide the basis for a common new strategy for education and research. In March 2019 the working groups handed over the single document "Smart and active Estonia 2035" to the Ministry of Education and Research. It strongly emphasised that education is based on research, and the development of science in turn depends on education, in particular doctoral studies. Since there was a lot of talk today about why we have a separate strategy for research and development, innovation and entrepreneurship and education, which will reach us in two weeks' time, I also personally regret that this process of vision documents was not based on the preparation of an education and research strategy. In drawing up vision papers for the education and research strategy, it was also said that perhaps we need a Ministry of Higher Education and Science, which would also be involved in innovation, because inevitably the Minister of Education will never have enough time to deal with the problems of higher education and science. On 12 September 2019, the Government of the Republic approved a proposal for the development of R&D&I, which was linked to innovation and entrepreneurship in R &amp; D. Not directly educated, but education is part of it. I am glad that cooperation has been born. Cooperation is always good. TAIE was born in cooperation between the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Education and Research and this is to be welcomed. It is to be welcomed that our ministers are working together, and I very much hope that, in order to meet new challenges, be it a digital revolution or a green turn, it will be understood that there is also a need for education. This was also confirmed by the Prime Minister, by introducing in this Chamber new trends in science that people's skills are certainly the key things that will enable us to make these new turns. Nevertheless, we must bear in mind, and we must not forget, that science is going with higher education. Bringing science into the context of innovation and entrepreneurship must not end when it is forgotten that science has much wider functions than just a driver of innovation. There are two points that I would like to emphasise. On the one hand, science is a part of culture and science creates a foundation for education, especially higher education, which can only be science-based. Humboldt principle: The university teaches science. In implementing this strategy and implementing the development plan, we must hope that both ministries bear in mind that science cannot be seen as a purely innovation engine. We need to know that higher education must be given on a very wide spectrum of disciplines, also in those parts that have nothing to do with smart specialisation growth areas. I believe that science must also be done in all the disciplines where Estonia provides higher education. Of course, in which areas we provide higher education is a question of choice, but if we decide to do so, we must also ensure that there is basic science there. Otherwise, the university becomes an upper secondary school where the teacher is not expected to have studied anything. The school has a teacher's knowledgeer, an agent of knowledge, not a creator of a new knowledge. In the university, however, science teaches, which means that people are taught to ask questions, question, seek out all of this is the key to innovation and ensures entrepreneurship and new development. This approach is needed in all the disciplines where we provide higher education. However, higher education ensures the development of education, culture, economy, defence and society in Estonia, as highly educated workers are prepared in all these areas of life. It is clear that the OSKA reports also show that we have a shortage of qualified labour in almost all areas, both in higher education and in vocational education. Therefore, let us be glad that we have an agreement that 1% of GDP will go to science. Although it is 1% R&D&I, it means R &amp; D, innovation and entrepreneurship. Some of this goes to entrepreneurship, but we have to get to the point of contributing 1.5% to higher education, as the rectors of universities have confirmed. Otherwise, it is also necessary to find the means of switching to either a partial paid higher education model or to make at least adult learners interested in the fact that paying off their professional education is partly their responsibility. Similarly, entrepreneurship can contribute to the training of people with skills. And the second point. Science must never be understood narrowly as a driver of innovation. It is also linked to the fact that innovation is only generated on the basis of strong basic sciences. Each application is based on fundamental knowledge of the nature and mechanisms of the phenomenon being investigated. Universities have a lot in store that they can do to implement. One of the success stories of the University of Tartu is what is advertised on the website as a story to attract new students to study. It's under the heading "Through falling towards the stars." The people of Estonia are happy to consume the yogurt, kefir and Heart cheese. The successful cooperation of researchers from the University of Tartu with entrepreneurship on the arrival of the so-called Helles lactic acid bacteria Lactobacillus fermentum ME-3 in domestic and foreign food and pharmaceutical products required strong basic research. Microbiologists wondered why a lactobacile is such a good fighter against harmful pathogenic microbes. The basic studies helped to clarify the mechanism of action of lactic acid bacteria. The antioxidant ability of Lactobacillus fermentum ME-3 enables it to protect the body's cells against stress. It was only when this discovery was protected in scientific articles that applied research, patent application and product development followed. The University of Tartu has other proposals in store: gas fermentation technologies for processing municipal waste, personal medicine applications for public health, hydrogen technologies for energy storage, carbon sequestration applications in agriculture, artificial intelligence and the use of machine learning in different economic sectors. I am absolutely sure that universities are ready to meet the challenges set out in this strategy or development plan. I wish the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, all actors in the research system, universities, research institutions and also policy makers the strength to work together with many of my partners in pursuing these important goals. And help the seers! The Bible is well - known for saying: When a blind man leads a blind man, both fall into a hole. Trust those who see! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U48	Thank you very much. I now ask the Riigikogu for a speech chair in Lauri Läänemets!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U49	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U50	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U51	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, As has been said many times before, higher education can in some ways be considered the foundation of research and innovation. Without higher education, there will be no growth of new scientists and successful new students who can operate in this world. That is why I will address higher education in particular in my speech. I have had the honour of being part of the Estonian student movement. Until 2013, the students' greatest goal was to reach free higher education in Estonia. The problems of access to higher education certainly spurred the desire at the time, but the student movement had a much broader view of Estonian society. In my opinion, the philosophy and logic of the student movement at that time is increasingly topical every year. Higher education is not just a person's own interest, it is the interest of society as a whole. Statistics actually show that a highly educated person gets a higher salary, hence contributing a larger amount of taxes and consumption to society. Highly educated people have also come out much better than previous economic crises. After all, we all understand the increase in the importance of knowledge over the course of history. There were times when a six - grade or nine - grade education was enough. Today, the bar has risen much higher. In order to succeed in society, we need people with a vocational qualification or higher education. If we consider the greatest possible number of highly educated people to succeed as a country, then we must also contribute to this as a society. This is the interest and purpose of society as a whole. Education, even higher education, is not a personal pleasure, as is a luxury car or a yacht. The realization that without education a person would not be able to exercise his or her freedoms actually arrived centuries ago. Let us not forget this. As the National Audit Office said in its analysis of the financing of higher education: the biggest obstacles to the development of the Estonian state and economy in the last ten years have been the lack of employees with the necessary knowledge and skills. Thus, not only young people but also adults need to acquire new skills more and more in higher education institutions. Thus, free higher education is essential in terms of reducing regional inequalities, as its availability is already limited by low incomes, poor transport connections and difficult working conditions. While the state contributed almost 1.5% of GDP to higher education institutions in the years of free higher education agreement, the amount currently remains at 1%. The state's contribution has increased over time, but the cost of living has increased much faster. As a result, teachers' salaries are shamefully low. And when discussing the future of Estonian science and innovation here today, it is difficult to understand how we will achieve these goals if the foundation at the bottom tends to disintegrate. Earlier, the Minister considered it important to include outside money in higher education, which is undoubtedly right and necessary. At the same time, however, he also expressed the market belief inherent in the current government, or the market-centred philosophy, as if the university were a company. In other words, the increase in funding does not have to come from the obligations of the agreed state, but from entrepreneurship and student wallets. However, in higher education, you cannot take the usual risk of entrepreneurship, where you can succeed or fail. No society can afford to experiment and fail in higher education, research and innovation. The Reform Party has indicated that Estonia's higher education is expected to be paid under their leadership. I think that's the wrong approach. It's a dangerous approach. It's shortsighted and actually yesterday. If the state has not financed the universities as promised, then the solution is not to burden the students, but to keep the promise. Here, once again, the helplessness of a thin country manifests itself. He can't act like the rest of Western societies is more unfair. Higher education is only available to a few people, and in the crisis, the country remains a helpless spectator. A strong society we get with educated people. They create new businesses, innovation, build roads and buildings, take us to space, and allow the neighbor to live peacefully and happily. Let's invest in people! It is more economically profitable than keeping people away from education with tuition fees. Please, let us fulfill the promises made by the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U52	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. As our Honourable Home and Rules of Procedure Act provides, at the end of the discussion of this point, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. The item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U53	Let's move on to item 16. Youth Development Plan 2021-2035. Let me also briefly present here the procedure. First, the Minister of Education and Science, Liina Kersna, will give a presentation for up to 20 minutes. Kristina Šmigun-Vähi, member of the Committee on Culture, will then be present for up to 20 minutes. As far as questions are concerned, a member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to either of the rapporteurs. Members of the Riigikogu and representatives of committees and political groups may take part in the negotiations. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. I will now give the floor to the Minister of Education and Science, Liina Kersna. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U54	[[Remote connection]] Good members of the Riigikogu, good night, everyone! For the start, thank you very much for the debate on the substance of the previous item. Indeed, the previous development plan that you dealt with was born in cooperation with the two ministries, but the two of us could not speak to the Riigikogu about it. This time, we deliberately chose the Minister of Enterprise as rapporteur for the development plan to show that this area is really extremely important to both parties, and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications contributed a great deal to this. Today, however, I will introduce you to the Youth Development Plan until 2035. Developments in the field of youth have been planned for 20 years at the level of the Government of the Republic. The first Youth Work Agenda was completed in 2001 and this follow-up strategy is already the fourth in line. During this time, Estonia's youth sector has achieved an exemplary position in Europe and in the world. The OECD has repeatedly highlighted the depth and integrity of Estonian youth policy. In 2019, we received the Golden Prize for Future Policy of the World Council for the so far strategic planning of the youth field. Estonia has been recognised for ensuring the broad participation of young people, the creation of opportunities for participation and the diversity of self-realization opportunities. What makes our youth field so special? In Estonia's approach, youth work and youth policy are included in the youth field. In other words, the creation and provision of broad opportunities and the background system affecting young people are linked. There are countries where youth work focuses mainly on dealing with young people with fewer opportunities. The key to Estonia's success is to ensure that all young people in general, regardless of their background or status, have access to diverse opportunities and support by applying different forms of youth work. The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic has undoubtedly exacerbated the challenges facing young people in terms of education, employment, income and also mental health. We know that it is young people who have been hit hardest in the labour market. During the first wave, the number of 16-24-year-olds unemployed increased by a third. Based on surveillance studies conducted during the pandemic, the highest rates of depression are also seen in the same age group. However, the impact on young people of learning gaps caused by distance learning may not be felt until years later. The OECD reports published last year highlighted the need to create and modernise national youth strategies in the context of a pandemic. Planning the development of the youth field as a whole will help to avoid fragmentation, manage better and reduce the consequences of the pandemic. The youth sector covers different ministerial responsibilities, as well as the activities of local authorities and private service providers. The importance of maintaining a comprehensive picture has been stressed by our partner ministries during the consultations. Similar recommendations have been made by the European Union, the UN and the Council of Europe. As of 2019, there were nearly 276000 young people in Estonia (from 7 to 26 years of age), representing 21% of the total population. This is the lowest in recent history, and according to Statistics Estonia's forecasts it will remain at the same level until at least 2035. In the last ten years alone, the number of young people has fallen by 17%. Young people are undoubtedly the key to the survival of our country, their creativity and their civic contribution will help to move society forward, which is why attention must be paid to them now and now. Young people's participation in youth work activities has increased year after year. While 37% of the population aged 7 to 26 were involved in the various activities of youth work in 2010, this share is now approaching 60%. Young people's workforce has also grown in one of the youth work services. The number of specialists working with young people has increased by over 9,000. It is a pleasure to note that young people appreciate the opportunities offered. Based on a survey of young people's satisfaction at the beginning of April, 90% of those involved in youth work are satisfied or very satisfied with what they have experienced. The greatest source of satisfaction is the social environment offered by youth work, relations with mentors and peers. Youth workers have an excellent ability to detect early challenges faced by young people by listening to them, providing advice and support, taking into account the specific expectations and needs of young people. Unfortunately, not all young people feel socially involved. According to the study "Children's subjective well-being at school," in recent years 24 to 35% of young people have experienced bullying at school. According to the International Children's Welfare Survey, 36% of respondents believe that adults do not listen or take them seriously enough. Up to 42% of respondents assessed the possibilities to participate in decisions concerning them as limited. The sense of belonging and the perception of inclusion depend on whether young people's thoughts are heard and on the considerable response at home, at school and in the community. Also, whether young people feel connected with their peers, whether their joint activities are meaningful in the community. Of course, we must not forget young people who are at risk of being excluded from special health needs. It is important to view young people as we want to see young people view their community and society as a whole. It should be borne in mind that children and young people have significantly more limited rights and opportunities, for example when entering the labour market or accessing economic resources, compared to other age groups. That is why young people deserve special attention. Although a large proportion of our young people are active in education or the labour market, the COVID-19 pandemic has led to a significant increase in the proportion of NEETs. These are young people who do not learn or work. At present, 1 in 10 young people are in this situation. Young people experience major transitions, changes, and obstacles through independence and social maturity. In order for these experiences to be meaningful and meaningful and to increase their readiness to cope with changes in the future, young people may need additional support, for example by allowing flexible opportunities for young people to develop diverse learning pathways in cooperation with education. Young people need knowledge and skills to cope with change, which in turn is the basis for attitudes. In view of the trends of the future and the complex challenges we face as a society, it is important to create opportunities for, among other things, digital competences, critical analysis and problem-solving, as well as social and emotional skills. Alongside the education system, it is the youth sector that plays an important role. The draft Youth Development Plan is the result of a long and comprehensive process of engagement. In autumn 2018, the first inclusion forums for young people and youth practitioners were organised, with the active involvement of local authorities and stakeholders. More than 60 organisations were represented in the 2019 working groups. The basic principles formulated in the co-creation process and the challenges described have become the backbone of the objectives and activities of the development plan. According to the vision set out in the development plan, this is a very ambitious young person living in 2035 in all regions of Estonia and is able to change the community and the country in such a way that Estonia has the best environment for growth, living and self-realization. We aim to provide young people with broad opportunities for development, security and solid support, thereby creating Estonia, which the young person wants to take forward. In order to achieve the vision, the development plan sets out four strategic objectives: firstly, young people are creative and a driving force for society; secondly, the protection of young people's rights in the country is consistent and the active participation of young people is supported; thirdly, high-quality youth work creates opportunities for young people to develop in a variety of ways, to experience success, to enrich their experiences and to become independent; and fourthly, young people's loneliness and withdrawal will be noticed and prevented by means of a safety net that enhances confidence. What are the changes that await a new period of time? Young people have great potential to be the initiators and leaders of social change. The development of young people's creativity and entrepreneurship requires support for young people's self-confidence and self-confidence, enabling them to experience mistakes and successes and learn from choices. Young people's talents, interests and creativity must be consistently recognised, including through cooperation with education and employers, taking better account of the knowledge, skills and experience acquired in non-formal learning. We have entrusted young people with the right to vote in municipal elections. In 72 municipalities all over Estonia there is a youth participation council or active group next to the council. In addition, it is estimated that 10% of young people participate in the activities of youth associations. The contribution of young people as volunteers is no less important. Up to 69% of young people aged 15 to 24 have contributed to volunteering, accounting for one fifth of all volunteers. A better understanding of young people's expectations and needs is essential, especially for those who are not currently taking part in or aware of the opportunities of youth work. In the youth field, the development of tools to measure the quality of activities and services for young people has been systematically addressed, for example through a tool for evaluating the quality of youth work for local authorities and the development of data analysis and monitoring capabilities in the field. In order to ensure that no young person misses or misses the necessary support, it is necessary to keep and develop knowledge of the current situation of our young people and to ensure up-to-date cooperation with specialists in the fields of education, social protection, child protection and internal security. Of course, it is based on motivated and supported youth workers who are guaranteed appropriate training opportunities and social guarantees. I would like to thank all young people, youth workers, representatives of municipalities and other stakeholders who have contributed and given valuable ideas to the preparation of the development plan. This development plan is the voice of young people themselves, describing the future that young people really want for themselves. I believe that by 2035 Estonia will indeed be the best environment for youth growth and development in the world, with young people and moving towards the goals and goals set for young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U55	Minister, thank you. You have at least one question. Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U56	Thank you, manager. Thank you very much, Minister, for a constructive review of the Youth Development Plan. I have a question about youth participation bodies, which you yourself mentioned in your speech, because its formation is highly dependent on how the local authority sets these conditions. But please also tell me what is meant by young people in this development plan. What age group from which age to which age?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U57	Thank you for your question. The development plan is based on the Youth Work Act, which provides for young people aged 7 to 26. But if you talk more about these youth councils or active groups formed by the local government, then the local government can choose the age group in which young people are expected to participate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U58	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You will probably even know that I am talking about the education of interest and the activities of interest, which is actually a cross-cutting theme in this whole development plan, it is spoken about in quite a number of points and quite comprehensively. For example, it is said that an education of interest must be available throughout Estonia and that it must provide all young people with opportunities for diverse development, success experiences, enrichment of experiences and independence. We know that state support for local authorities has increased the number of young people who are involved in recreational education by 20,000 already in the first two years. The coalition agreement also talks about promoting the activities of young people. My question is: how does this set out in the development plan and in the coalition agreement coincide with your plan to halve the support of interest education for local authorities in a situation where our young people are already in an extremely difficult time? You'll cut them off from development opportunities, socialism and community education in general.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U60	Thank you for your question. First of all, we know from research that young people in Estonia are really very active in recreational education and that they are also assessed on the basis of research. I am very pleased that a very large proportion of children and young people take part in education in general education. For example, 92% of primary school pupils participate in at least one of the hobby groups offered by the school. As regards the support for recreational education and the financing of recreational education in general, I very much welcome local authorities. In fact, it is the task of the local government to support recreational education and activities, and local authorities have done so very well. For example, in the last four years, when you look at the amounts that local authorities have contributed to recreational education and activities, they have increased every year. Local authorities have clearly valued the activities of interest education. On average, if you look at this additional state support, it will be less than 10% of what local authorities themselves have contributed to recreational education and activities. It's also very variable. It must be acknowledged that there are local authorities in which only 2 or 3% of their own contribution is made by the State. But there are also municipalities where this percentage is significantly higher, for example 30% or 35%. Now here is the point of discussion on how to make the most of this EUR 7.25 million, which the country is willing to continue to offer as support to local authorities, so that this money goes to those areas where it is needed more.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U61	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U62	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good Chairman! Thank you, good waitress! I have this question: has the system of annual grants for youth associations and this scoring remained the same, or has it changed to some extent? I dare say that once the maximum points are reached, it will no longer be a youth society, but it will have already evolved somewhere, rather become such a very bureaucratic undertaking for adults. And the second question. It's seven to twenty-six, we realize it's not like a seven-year-old doesn't know him. He's just as young as a 26-year-old. After 20, they no longer feel that they are young. My question: can't we bring in a youngster? We treat all under 18-year-olds as minors, but 15-year-olds could be young. I'm looking forward to your opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U63	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Surely a person aged 7 and 26 does not have similar interests and expectations. So this can be considered to make these services more targeted. But at the same time, this development plan also says that we are trying to take a very personal view of each young person to provide him with the services and opportunities he needs, as well as the support he needs. I do not know how much this definition itself adds, but in any case every young person according to his or her age is important and should be supported through youth work if he or she needs it. As regards support for youth organisations and the scoring system, I am probably not so well aware of this, but I know that the support methodology of the strategic partners of the Ministry of Education and Research will be reviewed and we will be doing so very soon.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U64	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U65	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. It's very nice to have a midnight discussion with you here. I have a question. Here in the development plan for the youth field, the objectives of young people in Europe are in one section, providing a starting point for the implementation of the strategy and being applicable at Member State level. And there's a point called "Equality of All Genders," which aims to rule out stereotypes in the educational system. We have girls working wood right now, but the boys are cooking and crochet, and it's perfectly normal, it's two sexes. Perhaps you can tell us what kind of genders have evolutionaryly come to our education system by 2035 and what do we need to keep in mind?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U66	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I believe in 2035 there will still be women and men. In fact, we really need to deal with this gender stereotype approach in the education system. For example, so far very few women reach the top in the field of science and science and also work in this field. Very good work has been done by a robotics course specifically designed for girls, which has been very well received by Taavi Eagle. Really, it's just the girls learning it, there's no boys next to it. We are also planning to pilot this course in five general education schools to see if the methodology and materials developed can also be integrated into general education schools in order to encourage girls to become more involved in robotics, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U67	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U68	Thank you for the floor. Minister, thank you very much. You spoke about the strategic objectives that are set out in this plan. It includes, inter alia, "Strategic Objective 2" and youth participation. It states that there will be preconditions for increasing young people's trust in the country and for strengthening their ties with the country, and will ensure that all young people can talk and have their opinion heard at all levels. It is probably not a secret to you, or at least it will not be a secret to you, if you look at it a little bit, that the additional support for youth interest, when the country created it, brought discussions with young people in very many local communities about what these activities are, what they would like to do further, and what they have dreamed of, what this diversity is, what they would like to see, and what kind of tutors they would like to see. This gave young people the opportunity to speak up and design opportunities for recreational activities as they would like. Now if the state breaks its promise and reverses what has been promised and what has been done with young people, how can this strategic objective be taken seriously in this development plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U69	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for your question, Mr Indrek Saar. Yeah, it's great when young people are involved at local level and in decision-making processes. For example, your party partner, Anti Allas, has done this wonderfully in the city of Võru. A very representative skatepark has been established under the leadership of young people in the city of Võru. I think that this is also the moment when local authorities can reunite young people and discuss with them what activities have proven themselves, which maybe not, and which local authorities should definitely continue with. I don't know if you're in contact with local government leaders, but I've been in contact with local government leaders a lot lately, and no local government manager has ever told me that they're not going on with the activities that have been financed so far by the state. If they see that these activities are sustainable, have an interest in them, they will continue with these activities. They've all said that. I recall that the tax base of local authorities is forecast to increase by EUR 65 million next year and by EUR 71 million next year. So this is a matter of priorities. And, to a large extent, the discussion that you have taken the lead has shown that recreational education is important, as well as that local authorities also attach great importance to supporting the education of interest. They have done so; they have contributed more and more of their own resources to recreational education each year. So state support is a small part of what local authorities themselves have invested. Wisely, they've done it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U70	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U71	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I was the head of the local government when it was established, and I was able to calculate precisely, so I know how the money was planned in Central Estonia and for what. Right now, I'm a member of the parish council, and I can assure you that what you're saying is not true. This is not true because, before the local elections, no local government leader will come out with a loud voice to say that he is now going to cut down on recreational education. But real life is that the budget will be prepared after the elections, and then the money you are going to cut down on here will not actually reach the children. Your suggestion was that Anti Allas and other local government leaders, who are undoubtedly good people across Estonia, would bring young people and children together and discuss where to cut. Instead, I would like to know from you that if, now, the municipalities really do not have any money and have to cut back, what do you think these areas are based on this strategy, the development plan, which could be abandoned.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U72	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I really wonder how you underestimate local governments. Good Lauri West Forest! The budgets of local governments have increased and will continue to grow in the coming years. I do not know what your understanding is that local authorities will only value young people and children before the elections. We really do interact with very different people at the local government level, because I have not seen this attitude. I am looking forward to seeing how this local authority, which you are in the council, is acting, and I very much hope that you will stand by the local authority contributing to the activities of young people and children at the expense of the increase in tax revenue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U73	Good Minister, there are no more questions for you. Thank you! We will move on to the Committee on Culture's view and this will be presented by Kristina Šmigun-Vähi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U74	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu was introduced to the Youth Development Plan until 2035 on 12 January including. Helle-Moonika Helme, Signe Kivi, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Eduard Odines, Heidy Purga, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi and Marko Šorin attended the meeting. The meeting was chaired by Aadu Must, Chairman of the Committee on Culture. There was no Jack White. The hearing took place via the video bridge. The Youth Development Plan was presented to us by Jaak Aab, Minister of Education and Science, and his advisers, Kristi Vinter-Nemvalts, Deputy Chancellor at the Ministry of Education and Research, adviser Gerttu Aavik, Karl Andreas Sprenk and Roger Tibar participated in the meeting. First of all, Minister Jaak Aab presented the development plan in general. That's exactly what Minister Liina Kersna did today, very well said everything, I wouldn't repeat it again. The members of the Committee on Culture were then able to ask questions. I would like to sum up the questions that were in the debate in order to save time. They asked how the student community is represented in the current youth movement, about the involvement of young people in the development plan that young people thought of themselves in the development plan, about the involvement of education in the strategy of the development plan, as well as about administrative areas, and whether art and children's music schools fall within the scope of education or youth. The development plan also included recreational education and youth work, as if they were the same, but the whole issue relates to teacher follow-up. There was also interest in salaries and in youth work and teachers. The answers were provided by Kristi Vinter-Nemvalts and Gerttu Aavik. The Association of Estonian Student Unions has actively contributed to the process of preparing the development plan, the education of interest and youth work are not the same, the education of interest is part of youth work. Interest education issues are also included in the development plan for education. The problem, of course, was that there has not been a common view of interest education, and there are very many issues that lie between the two areas. It was hoped that this was the reason for the desire to create a life-long concept of education of interest, which, in addition to young people, would cover all age groups, both younger and older. The whole landscape of the sector must be organized with partners and ensure that all age groups are covered and dealt with. Teachers' pay policy is on the agenda and will be dealt with. According to the current regulation, recreational education is defined as part of youth work. There was also an interest in local government funding and it was examined whether the municipality would receive additional public support for the organisation of interest education and activities. According to the development plan, it is not the country's intention to stop supporting. The main funder is the local government in the case of recreational education, and the state supports in certain respects, such was the minister's answer. Just as Minister Liina Kersna spoke about OECD studies, we were also interested from the very point of view that, interestingly, very happy people live in Finland, but according to studies, which are particularly relevant to youth policy and inclusion, Finland is the last. Mr Aavik explained that the OECD analysis measures how comprehensively countries have approached youth issues at policy-making level. Finally. Aadu Must made the following proposals: to appoint me, Kristina Šmigun-Vähit, as the Commission's representative for the debate on the Youth Development Plan 2021 to 2035 and to put it on the plenary agenda by 27 January. It was removed from the agenda of 27 January by the change of government, and on 11 May, including at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, Aadu Black proposed that the Youth Development Plan be put on the agenda for the plenary session until 2035 by Wednesday 19 May. Today, of course, the date has already passed. Helle-Moonika Helme, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Eduard Odines, Heidy Purga, Üllar Saaremäe, Margit Sutrop, Jaak Valge, me and Marko Šorin took part in this committee meeting. There was no Signe Stone. And it was decided by consensus that the development plan would come to today's agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U75	You have at least one question. Indrek Saar is asking. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U76	Thank you for your review, my dear colleague. You and I have discussed in this Chamber as well as in other formats and we have been worried that children's and young people's recreation could be significantly greater than it is now. We have also talked about the role that coaches often play in the development of a young person and how important it is for coaches to be motivated and properly paid and to have good training. All of this is part of activities of interest and education of interest, among other things. Your party associates have now decided to cut seven million out of interest, of which at least a few million are directly sport and recreation. What do you think this will do for sport and exercise? Does that make this situation better or worse?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U77	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for your question. First of all, I must admit that this was not discussed in the Committee on Culture. But if I can take a while in the late hours of the night, I fully understand this concern, and I have also studied what the options are and how the future behaviour will go, what it means. I have realised that there is, in fact, a great deal of funding that has not been properly addressed, let us say, it has not been used for its intended purpose. I very, very much hope that the local authorities will continue, as Minister Liina Kersna said earlier, and will put on their shoulders and continue to support.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U78	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U79	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good Kristina! I do remember, as a member of the Commission, from the January session, that the Minister of Education at that time told us that there was no intention of cutting the state's support for recreational education. There was another government then, but the coalition partner is the same. Apparently, positions have also changed in the Centre Party. I remember well how passionately you were at the time for opportunities for recreational education, especially for recreation and sports. I also do not recall that this claim is correct that local authorities are sending funds for unintended purposes, as this is not confirmed by the report made in autumn 2020. What is your personal viewpoint? Are such cuts, which are tiny in the context of the state budget, justified in order to reduce young people's interest?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U80	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for your question. Of course I'm very, very worried. I can really see how to say that all this recreational education is in the role of an orphan. I know a lot of concerned teachers and leaders of private interest schools who are in a very poor position. But I really hope here that local authorities, given that their annual support is increasing, will still find an opportunity to support children's recreational education and sport.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U81	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U82	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I actually wanted to ask the minister, but I had this night job here, I didn't do it right now. Yes, local government revenues are increasing. At the same time, the state's tax revenues are growing ten times more, the correction of the latest forecast is ten times greater than what goes to local governments. In this situation, we see that the state cannot compensate for the first day of illness, the city of Tallinn says that it will compensate the Tallinnians. The state cuts interest education, Tallinn says no-no, they continue to finance earlier. Now, the latest news is taking orchestras on their payroll. What do you think of such a proposal, if the implementation of the youth field is delegated to the city of Tallinn, for example, because then it is certain that it will be done?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U83	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, dear Riina Sikkut. That's a very good question, and all the very big problems have been accounted for. Personally, I believe that all these problems are very coolly puffed up, but in fact, we need to look at things step by step. As I said before, I am absolutely convinced that no one will remain in the open sky and that opportunities will be found.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U84	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U85	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good vice chairman. A good waitress from the Committee on Culture! I just have a few questions. One is this: when will the band work be considered as youth work and considered as an activity of interest? And second, could the annual grants for youth associations be shared by the girls and young eagles? After all, they have exactly the same youth work and Boy Scout organisations, both scouts and guides receiving support. Did you discuss that in the committee? As far as I was listening, at this point, it was not mentioned, but you obviously had an exciting debate there. I will hear your answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U86	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, dear questioner. That's a good question. This really was not discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U87	No further questions. Thank you! Let us move on to the negotiations, and the first word will be Helle-Moonika Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U88	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office. I also ask for three more minutes, even though I'm not going to give a speech at all, because it's too late or so early when I take it the other way around. Any word from me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U89	It's nice to hear.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U90	Yeah, right. I just didn't hear if I could get three more minutes or not. Normally, this answer is coming right away, which is why I was waiting.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U91	Yeah, we'll add that extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U92	Got it. Right. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the good minister and everyone who is still up here! In the end, we have come so far with the development plans that they are gradually getting to this great hall of the Riigikogu. Some of them have also passed through our Committee on Culture, of which I am a member, and I have had the opportunity to make my own contribution. And our group has had the opportunity to make its contribution so that these development plans can be such that they can as well identify what is going on in these areas in the future, some of them up to 2035. However, the biggest debate in both the Commission and the political groups took place, as I recall, on the development plan for education and language. The Youth Development Plan received somewhat less attention, probably because it contained strategic and tactical quotas, which more or less satisfied everyone, 'over-political'. We are all affected by young people and are important to all of us. However, as far as the development plans are concerned in general, it must be acknowledged that I have never read such a loud and big text, as has now been read in the development plans. This multiplicity and self-intelligence admiring newswords, such expanded positivity, enthusiasm, declarative good new weather, which should arrive by 2035, is, frankly, already kind of a literary genre. It has to be admitted that the official records are excellently written by the officials. It is often difficult to argue or argue with these texts, because how do you argue with such a large-worded collective consciousness, with anonymous numbers who have written a development plan or who have been involved? But there was an argument, because it is precisely because of this inclusion process that the development plans are often not the face of the previous government, not even the previous one, but the previous one. Some of the world-view points contained in it therefore still had to be debated. In some respects, it succeeded, but in some parts it did not, because unfortunately collective consciousness is sometimes very inflexible and inert. There's nothing wrong with us trying to analyze and predict any trends or processes. At the same time, we know that these development plans will remain a mandatory framework to shape our lives and progress for many years to come. As the current world is changing very fast in its day-to-day life, there is a very high risk in the long-term development plans: they can become a brake rather than a development. In a situation where national policies should be dynamic and quickly go along with some developments that we cannot anticipate now, for example, in the world economy and security, we are restrained by those development plans that we are now approving. We know that, among other things, financial allocations for key sectors depend on these development plans. If we need to take urgent and necessary decisions in the period up to 2035, when referring to our development plans, officials will say that no-no-no, we cannot do that, it is not in line with the development plan in this area. Well, for example. Good politicians, both present and those who come into politics until 2035! In future, have the courage to do all the good things that are included in these development plans, and have the courage to bypass them when the situation demands it. The development plan is actually the long plan for Estonia, which is being discussed all the time. In fact, the longest development plan and the longest plan have already been written to Estonia in our constitution. It's the preservation of the nation, language and culture all over the world. All development plans, strategies and projects, even party programmes, should be based primarily on this long plan. But when I come back to the development plan for the youth field, I say that young people, the activities and development of young people and their growth into dignified and happy people in Estonia we all fully support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U93	And now Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U94	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, dear Hanno Pevkur. I am a little puzzled by the position of the previous speaker in relation to this development plan, especially in the aspect where such a critical note has been communicated to the development plan. The Reform Party Group recognises all those who were involved in the preparation of such an important development plan and in the creation of a vision. It's a very good development plan, absolutely. This development plan creates diverse conditions for the development of youth work and provides for greater involvement of young people in society, including in political life, and also in the public. It is important to note that this development plan will also, by the way, continue to set some of the targets focussed in the 2014-2020 development plan, indicating the importance of the long-term impact so that these priorities are not lost in sight. The content of the development plan will be based on studies, analyses, policy recommendations, vision papers prepared by experts, cross-cutting strategies and the results of youth work forums and youth forums, as well as international agreements. I think it is a strong result and a very strong expertise. While the development plan for youth has set good and necessary goals, we have, unfortunately, reduced young people. As of 2019, Estonia had over 275000 young people aged 7 to 26 under the Youth Work Act. This is nearly 21% of the Estonian population, which is the lowest figure in history so far and is expected to remain at the same level until at least 2035. Over the last ten years, the number of young people has fallen by 17%. This is the current situation. Further, we know that young people have more limited rights than other age groups, such as minors' capacity and opportunities to enter the labour market or access economic resources. Young people therefore need special attention and opportunities to discover and test new experiences and learn about themselves and the world around them. It is as if I repeat the words of the Minister for Education and Research, who had the same in mind when he introduced the development plan. Young people are the key to the survival of our country, their creativity and civic contribution are taking society forward, and they need attention right now. Although this development plan targets the activities of youth work narrowly within the age range of 7 to 26 years, it is important to include all areas of life from an integrated youth policy perspective and guide the long-term integrated view, which, in conjunction with the national strategy "Estonia 2035," would work for young people. In addition, the youth field plays an important role in ensuring the coherent development of Estonian society, protecting and promoting human rights, tolerance and solidarity, promoting respect for the mother tongue, their culture and other languages and cultures. In my opinion, too, as stated in this development plan, there are prerequisites for the recognition of cultural diversity, equal treatment and intergenerational cooperation in the youth field, helping to build a coherent and healthy society based on participation and cooperation. The youth field is an important part of Estonia's diverse tradition of lifelong learning, the arc of learning and the talent policy. The heart is calmed by the knowledge that youth participation in youth work activities has increased year after year. And here's some numbers. For example, while 37% of young people were involved in different activities in 2010, in 2019 almost 60% were already involved. The increase in participation has been positively influenced both by the increased activity of the participants and by the increase in the number of providers of youth employment opportunities. For example, the number of institutions providing youth interest education in the youth field in recreational schools has increased more than twice during the 2009-2019 period. I now reach the main level of organisation of youth work, including youth interest education, i.e. local government, because it is the local government that can organise it with the best focus. And here it is good to recall, in the context of the ongoing passionate debate, as if money had been completely withdrawn from the education of interest, that this is not the case. Local authorities are free to decide at the level of the organisation of youth work, which ensures the development and provision of youth work services as close as possible to young people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U95	Hey, hey, do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U96	Up to now, local authorities have valued support for interest education, and the state's support for local authorities in supporting interest education has not covered the bulk, but is a percentage of support, which varies from a few percent of the grant, but generally does not exceed 30%.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U97	You got three minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U98	And here, it is quite appropriate to conclude the development plan with words summarising the vision. I'm almost done. "In 2035 young people live a healthy and full life in all areas of Estonia and are able to change the community and state in such a way that Estonia has the best environment for growth, living and self-realization in the world. " Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U99	The next item is Marko Šorin. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U100	Mr President, more time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U101	Please, three more minutes! Eight in all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U102	Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, This document has been prepared by a significant number of stakeholders and it is important that young people themselves are involved. The Steering Committee is also quite representative. Although we often tend to underestimate each other's work or to pretend that we do not notice it. I would like to mention here the recognition that the Minister mentioned, namely, in 2019 the World Council for the Future, the Golden Prize for a knowledge-based, inclusive, systematic and effective youth policy. That is not enough. Thank you very much for the work done by everyone involved. We are setting the goals of youth policy with this document for the next 15 years and we already know that the first years will probably take a chance on the post-corona arrangements. Whether life goes on the same track as before a pandemic or rather a new path depends on cooperation both within and across sectors. Instead, the digital solutions, the introduction of which came under pressure on all of us, provide new opportunities for new development. The distance learning was indispensable, but the weaknesses of this method, both technical and human, also emerged. It is important to ensure that all young people have broad opportunities for development, a sense of security and solid support to create an environment in which young people want to contribute to the development of the country and take it forward. It is exciting to discuss whether this is a task for the state or the municipality, but it is actually a challenge for the whole society. Our youth's so-called better role has been taken up in the field of recreational education. These are young people who are already active, are engaged in various hobbies and are learning exemplaryly. However, young people who have not found a place in our society may be excluded from the spectrum of recreational education and activities. Their involvement is an even greater challenge. It cannot be said that these young people will not be noticed or reported. Our society, our country, has evolved enough to be aware of the problem, but more is needed. Only Tallinn, Tartu and Pärnu can offer mobile youth work today. It shows that young people who are otherwise excluded can be taken into action. These young people are also the fruit of our development. In an advanced society, some of them simply stays out of the way, but small Estonia cannot afford it. Those young ones often have sad stories, feelings of security and lack of parental care confused their relationship with family members, and even broken families. Young people are the future of Estonia. The extent to which we contribute to young people now depends on what kind of future lies ahead. The welfare and choices of young people have a direct impact on the social image of the country as well as on the economy, security, the living and natural environment, regional development and, in fact, on all other important areas. It is therefore very important to support young people and contribute to their development. I did not ask the minister about the age range of young people for this development plan. Young people must not be restricted because of their activity, as happened in the municipality of Tori in Pärnu County, where the age limit of the youth council was limited in order to exclude the most active group of local young people who had acted to form a youth council. But their age began from 22. According to the Youth Work Act, they are still young, but the local government set a ceiling of 21 years of age and this most active group was excluded. What message does such an approach provide for young people? Are they welcome to the so-called adult world? Although statistics and forecasts show that people's lives are increasing, we have no cause for complacency. In addition to life expectancy, healthy years are also important, where we have room for improvement, both for young people and, in fact, for adults. Risk behaviour is still a very topical issue and, unfortunately, the mortality rates of young people are still high due to risk behaviour. In addition to the eternal problems, our young people face new challenges, such as digital threats, cyber fraud and cyber bullying. All of this affects young people's mental health and promotes excessive self - criticism, stress, and unhealthy habits. The development plan for the youth field has been launched precisely to ensure broad development opportunities, security and solid support for Estonian young people. Risk behaviour is not the only concern. Youth unemployment, youth migration, young people's participation in national and local issues must contribute to all these areas if we want to see a brighter future. In order to respond to these challenges, the following actions have been identified in the development plan. Supporting young people in independence and transition to work life, ensuring opportunities to engage in representative democracy, improving access to youth work activities for groups to which services do not reach today, raising awareness of the need for equal treatment for young people, creating opportunities for self-detection, broadening the horizon, self-initiative and collective actions, increasing access to youth work activities and institutions, ensuring the systematic development and availability of youth information quality services, and enriching forms of youth work, the mobility of services and dynamism are most suited to the needs of young people. It is important to note that in the case of youth work, the state will only create a legal framework and support the municipality on strategic priorities and ensuring a consistent quality of services. The main level of organisation of youth work is the local government. Their role is to ensure the development and provision of youth services to young people. It depends on local governments how good a network is to support the development of young people. The choice and priorities of municipalities depend heavily on whether or not at least one circle of interest is guaranteed for each young person and how attractive local youth centres are. Finally, I would like to thank the former Minister for Education and today the Chairman of the Estonian Centre Party Group, Mailis Reps, who led the document that was so important for our future. But, of course, I would also like to thank Mr Aab and Mrs Kersna, who have completed this process. The development plan is the basis for promoting the lives of young people throughout Estonia. This is a basic document for the future of Estonia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U103	And now please, Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski. I'm sorry, I'll give you another... Tarmo Kruus Hill must be a procedural question. So, Mr. Kruusimäe, what's the problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U104	[[Remote connection]] I wanted to ask you this: can all the ambassadors speak here or are there only representatives of the political groups?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U105	Yes, all the ambassadors will have the floor. Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U106	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It must be acknowledged that in recent years there have been really many opportunities for young people in Estonia to test themselves in various civic initiatives, volunteer programmes and international and local projects. Young people are also involved in political decision-making. This is confirmed by the existing Youth Development Plan. Youth organisations and associations were involved in the development plan. Children and young people depend on what society we live in in the future, and we must contribute to development, education and the formation of democratic values. You will not be burdened with numerous numbers, but the participation of Estonian young people in youth centres, youth councils and local government participation collections gives a very positive impression and also stands out in Europe. For example, in 2019 4200 young people participated in the Erasmus+ programme in Estonia and abroad. Nearly 400 young people participated in the European Solidarity Corps programme. On Tuesday, we received news that the European Parliament adopted the Erasmus+ programme in the field of education 2021 to 2027, with a budget almost doubling and more than EUR 28 billion being contributed from various sources over seven years. The previous seven-year programme had a budget of €14.7 billion. For example, Erasmus+ is now also part of the DiscoverEU initiative, which offers young people the opportunity to apply for free travel tickets, for example, to attend language courses or museum workshops and to discover both European cultural and linguistic diversity. In short, our young people can be content. They are valued in our society, their needs and interests are taken into account, and they are offered different opportunities for development. Young people are expected to do one thing: be tragic and motivated and take advantage of the opportunities offered. However, we must not forget that not all young people are motivated, socially active and advanced. We must also remember those who need help and support. Here I am talking about the so-called NEETs. These are young people who do not study, work or acquire a specialty. In 2019 almost 9,000 young people aged 15 to 24 in Estonia and 12,000 young people aged 25 to 29 who did not study, work or participate in training. Over the years, the proportion of these young people is decreasing, but there are still thousands of young people who have a difficult situation in life and need attention and assistance. 60% of NEETs aged 25 to 29 take care of children or other family members. I am convinced that some projects must be targeted specifically at this target group, as having a child or the need to care for a family member need not be an obstacle to learning, working and being socially and economically protected. If we can help these young people, we will reduce the burden on our social welfare system in the future and increase the country's internal security. Coordinated youth policy and youth work will ensure the success and development of the country. The UN and the Council of Europe value and emphasise the importance of youth growth in governance. Studies show that there is also a higher level of confidence in the country in those countries where young people are involved in governance. I welcome the creation of a development plan in the field of youth in Estonia and hope that it will make it possible to improve the lives of our young people and provide them with new opportunities for development and perspectives. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U107	Next is Indrek Saar. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U108	Ladies and gentlemen, It's late, but I'll ask for more time, three minutes, just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U109	You can still ask, no matter the time of day. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U110	I will try to be constructive and brief. I'm gonna start by saying thank you. I want to thank all those people who work in the youth field. As a result, the field of youth in Estonia is innovative, increasingly professional, increasingly setting its goals. Surely, in order to set these goals, there is a need to discuss seriously from time to time. And it's been done to get this youth work agenda together. It is a pity that administrative obstacles took time, and this development plan has been a little delayed. I guess there were different reasons. The field has been waiting for this plan for some time. It's a good thing he exists now. But I have a problem. Just as the Minister said, briefly and in the youth slang, Estonia should be an awesome place for young people in 2035 where they feel that they are a very important part of the community in which they operate. I think that might be the case right now. This could be more and more the case every day, for which we are doing this development plan. This development plan contains very nicely the things that should be done for what should be kept in mind. Four strategic objectives have been well formulated here. But when I read these goals and look at what the government is doing with the budget, there will be a short circuit, a complete short circuit. The Minister carefully chose words, and in describing these strategic objectives, he avoided all that pertains to education of interest. Still the totally absurd cut that the youth sector, young people and children have decided to make in the future. If we look at these strategic goals for once, the first of them is HOO, which says that young people, their solutions and ideas are taken seriously in society. Young people have given a number of ideas about how state support in recent years can create opportunities for young people to do the things young people want to do. How do we say they should take this development plan seriously if we throw what they've been betting on out of the window? [The development plan states:] "Supporting the discovery and development of gifts and strengths: providing young people with opportunities to pursue their interests and talents in depth. " This is done by additional support for recreational activities. "... by introducing and popularising different areas of activity (including on the basis of traditions as well as new societal needs) and creating opportunities for young people to communicate with professionals in their field. " This is exactly what additional support for interest activities is and creates these opportunities. Strategic objective two: PART (participation). "There are prerequisites for increasing young people's trust in the country and strengthening their ties with the country. [---] Ensure the opportunity of all young people to be involved and the hearing of opinions at all levels. " Young people have been invited to talk along, and young people have been promised a promise: you speak along, and you can decorate your extracurricular time, your informal education, in many ways, precisely according to what you yourself have expressed, what ideas you have generated. This promise will be broken in one budget cut. How should we take this development plan seriously? Strategic objective three: ISE. Regionally uniform access to high-quality youth work (including youth education of interest) will be ensured. " Additional support for recreational activities is designed to compensate for the differences in the availability of recreational activities between children living in metropolitan areas and children living in rural areas. This money has a very powerful distributed component in order to give children a more equal opportunity. Unfortunately, the situation is not equal; we would like children's opportunities to be equal. That money's just gonna be taken away. I will spare you the fourth [strategic] objective, but here too, these overlaps are very much present. And unfortunately, I am not comforted by the fact that the Minister says that recreational education is the responsibility of local governments. Education is also the responsibility of local governments, yet the state puts in the pay of teachers. Let's take it off tomorrow! Municipalities also have the responsibility of early childhood education. The state of order has acted in a spirit of word. He said he'd support that kindergarten teachers get a decent salary. The last crisis came, he took the money. A few years later, with the participation of the Social Democrats, this money was put back. This has helped raise the salaries of many kindergarten teachers. The state can't take that money away. Similarly, the state cannot take away its promise of an education of interest. The Minister says it's only 10% compared to the money that local authorities put into action. Listen, 10% of the kids are a couple of ten thousand young people that are affected. In fact, the Reform Party, who is used to talking about efficiency, look deeper into this money, try to get a little deeper. We'll put more money in 10%. The number of young people involved in recreational activities has increased by 30% in a few years. This is money spent overly efficiently, so it was very much needed to give this area a new impetus and new opportunities for young people. So I beg you very much: Mr Government, Mr Minister for Education, and everyone on whom it depends that the activities of interest should be financed as agreed, please read this development plan again and please turn back this decision. The fact that you can save 0.06% of the state budget, save on the future of these children and young people is certainly not worth it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U111	Please! And now Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U112	[[Remote connection]] Thank you! I here would simply represent my life experience. Since 2007, I had the opportunity to work at the Estonian Youth Work Centre. When I went to work, I was the head of a civic education project, and my work piece was multicultural and tolerant, believe it or not. That's why I may know, and it's good for me to compare the whole thing like this. And I have to say that one minister, at least, with whom I always had a good debate in the Committee on European Union Affairs, was Mailis Reps. Relatively speaking, we already understood what this is, the second, the third and the fourth. I would remind you that in 2008 or 2009, we gave Marju Lauristin our own development plans and documents to read. He said it was such a terrible pulpit, there could be [beautiful] Estonian. If anyone thinks that this development plan has been written up by young people using their language, that is not the case. Young people always thought that maybe a youth could be loose longer or something, but it was pulled into that big generalisation. And that's how we have this kind of state-of-the-art document. Actually, Moonika Helme is right. Yes, such a text can last for years. But I say that it is not because the text is made with such a great generalisation and all things, little nuances have been mentioned, youth work is no worse. Today, the youth work is done by those who were still in these youthful backgrounds and were thrilled with it. That's what they do, and it's actually nice to watch. It was a pleasant and really cool experience for me to evaluate youth work when I, as a result of my crude environment at the Estonian Youth Work Centre, supplemented them, I hope, but they also supplemented me quite strongly. Then maybe it's that age thing that you tell a 15-to-16-year-old that he's a child or, even worse, a minor. It's discrimination, it's rubbing the kid's nose. Think of him as a full partner. Let's just remind ourselves of the age of those young people who went to the war of freedom when mobilisation failed. I can see that enthusiasm everywhere else. For me, of course, say, in late hours, there may be such a lack of truth. The Social Democrats here very much praised the city of Tallinn, but I recall that the city of Tallinn stopped financing 100% private interest education. The fact that they are now saying that they want to contribute something, yes, the local government, if it fails to do so, then it will turn to the private sector and, of course, give it the resources. But no, it's all 100 percent off. Thus, for example, I do not see this sincere faith in the city of Tallinn. Being a member of the Hub Centre Kullo's Council of Cares, Kullo turns 80 this year, I'm actually very worried. Because the house has been amorated, we could build some smart house instead, there could be good access and all that, but I can't see it. It's probably gonna stay the same as the city hall, because young people can do something. Young people want to be heard, young people want to be understood, and young people want to be expressed. It's not much to ask. Give the kids a room, the parents buy them that sound equipment and these pills, that's exactly what it is, and that's what youth work is all about. But now a young person doesn't go there, because somewhere an official would like to say that maybe we're gonna teach them the instrument, then he's already an internship, or we're gonna have to have somebody in there who's a real tutor, and then he's already an act of interest. We want to over-regulate. But it is not necessary, for young people there are only three tasks: to love, to err, and to learn. It is that simple: to love life, to make mistakes in the process, and to learn from these mistakes. Young people aren't doomed, and they can still do it. Young people are our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U113	Please! Lauri Läänemets is now welcome with his opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U114	Just in case, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U115	Sure. Eight minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U116	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, who are still eagerly thinking about youth work at 3:00 a.m. in the morning! First of all, my sincere thanks to all those involved in the preparation of this development plan! I know a lot of specialists in their field did it with a lot of soul. So good and good work has been done. However, the problem is that papers can be produced, but if political decisions do not allow these good ideas to be implemented, they may not eventually become what we have wanted in the development plan. We are talking, of course, about the fact that while we are talking here about the development plan for the youth sector and planning for the future, the government has announced the decision to reduce EUR 7 million from public funding for youth interest education and recreational activities. I listened to this debate that used to be here, and I dare say it's kind of a cruel demagogue that goes on. I'd like to dissect it a little bit. First of all, I was the head of the local government when this system was created, and I can assure you that there was no waste of money and no random sharing. What the municipalities had to do, the analyses they had to submit to the state, and the review of the feedback that was made there was very thorough. In my opinion, it is also a very good example in this respect that money was not given just as randomly, but that the country had a very specific vision where there are problems with access to young people's education of interest that they want to solve. I think all this was pretty well shaken into place. When we did at the time and, by the way, at the end of last year, the municipalities also developed new development plans on how to use this money, everything was thought of and analysed. By the way, ideas were also collected from people, as incredible as it may seem for some in this hall. I'm a member of a parish council right now and I'm listening to what the minister is saying. The Minister's story has probably also been believed by some of his group members who spoke here today. For example, the Minister says that he does not know any local government leaders or any local government that intends to cut this spending on recreational education. Of course, I don't know any before the local elections. I don't know any either. I know that, for example, the chairman of the Järva parish council quickly announced when the scream rose because of the cut in funding that Järva parish was not going to cut. Well, let's see. In the meantime, local government elections are actually held. Knowing the real financial situation of Järva municipality, we will only see this next year. I don't think we're here so blue-eyed that we'd think that before the local government elections, everyone's gonna say they're gonna cut it. An even greater class of demagoguery is, of course, when it comes to the fact that the income base of local governments has grown and is growing a lot more, and there is money. Well, you know, there's an increase in expenses. It's always been like this. There are growing revenues, rising costs and, moreover, an ageing population. As a rule, rural areas, which receive this more support for recreational activities, also have a higher ageing population and their income base is actually decreasing in proportion. If we now take a comparison between the state and local governments, the country's income base will also grow. And as Riina Sikkut said earlier, the revenue of the state increases ten times more than the income of the local government. What are we talking about? How can you even say that? Ultimately, the burden of this crisis has also been borne by local authorities in the same way as the state, there is no difference here. But most of all, I was amazed, of course, that the minister recommended that mayors and mayors gather children and together discuss how the system works and what does not work in this system. Perhaps that was the call: children, decide for yourself where this cut should come from. In my opinion, there is a great deal of concern about all this cuts: the government is hitting everyone with a single table, that 6% or what that percentage was must be cut. In fact, this means that it does not dare to assume political responsibility. If you're going to cut it and if we're also discussing the development plan for youth work today, tell me where you want to cut it. I don't know, I mean, the municipalities I know, I've been talking to a lot of people now, asking them where the money goes, I've also looked at the analyses that the country has done. Then this money, for example, goes to a special needs education for children. It used to be too expensive. Often, for children with special needs, the supervisor can only deal with the child. They used to have no other choice, now they have that chance. Or transport to get in the circle of interest at all. After all, we know the situation in Estonia with public transport in sparsely populated areas. Transport is a very important thing. It's also technology circles. When we think about national development strategies, education and economic strategies, we want young people to study technology. And now, in fact, with the funding of this same kind of recreational education, all this process, especially in rural areas, is in this direction. And it's really started really well. Now we tell the kids to decide where that money is taken from. In my opinion, this is very unfair and, in fact, very unfair, because children also carried a burden in this crisis. But now we want them to carry an even greater burden. The generation has been hit by young people, in the sense that their education may not have been in the same conditions as usual, which means that there are many shortcomings. Interest education could be one that supports these children and supports their emergence from this crisis as well, but we are actually taking them out with our other hand. Maybe the kids will get hit twice in this crisis. And it's not a random choice, but it's unfortunately an informed choice. I hope that they will think about it by autumn, and in the autumn, when we start discussing the state budget, they will find places to kill elsewhere. For example, 125 million euros are sitting peacefully in the budget of Eesti Energia for a year or two, because the courts have taken action, environmental associations have taken action. It's the money for building an oil plant. I don't know what economic logic just allows millions, one hundred million to sit in a company's budget. Take it out, it will actually cover the needs for cuts for two years, and Estonia's life could go much better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U117	I don't see any more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen, we have agreed that the Riigikogu will not take the decision to conclude this debate, and we have also passed this point. Thank you all, on behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, for the last 15 hours in this great Chamber of the Riigikogu! A little light rest, and tomorrow morning at 10 a.m., we'll start again. Good night.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U118	Good fellows! Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable Question Time Monitors! Let's start the 19th May briefing. First, we'll run a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U119	Currently 34 members of the Riigikogu registered to the office, no 67. In today's Question Time, Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus will take part in the duties of Prime Minister, Defence Minister Kalle Laanet and Minister of Health and Labour Tanel Kiik. I have a request to all the questioners: we have two minutes to ask the questions. There are three minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U120	Let's start with the first question. It has been submitted by Riigikogu member Indrek Saar, the Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus in the role of Prime Minister and the subject is the results of budget cuts. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U121	Thank you for the floor. Minister for Finance in his duties as Prime Minister. I understand you, of course, as the Minister of Finance, and I understand the good old pathos of the Reform Party that the country must be cut short in any case and whenever possible. Especially now, it is possible to say this, it is difficult times, and the country must set an example. Of course, I'm gonna put a big question mark on this place. Do we now have this situation that, if the state becomes less capable, business, which is actually expecting state support, would be of sufficient help in this case? I get it, you've taken the scavenger. But you haven't finished your job. You have gone on the simplest way of resisting, that we will make the same cuts for everyone instead of telling them where the places where the costs can actually be summed up without doing the things that matter. Now we see that things are being cut through in a row that may never be able to be restored again and which may mean that many people are taking away their future opportunities. A cut in interest activities. The money that the state added to the activities of interest has brought more than 30,000 children to the activities of interest in a few years. If even half of it is taken over by local authorities, there are still thousands of children who are losing this activity. What it means to us in the long run can only be imagined. The symbolic orchestras are being shut down on a daily basis. Recreating these traditions may prove impossible in the future if better times come one day. Similarly, we are again threatened with the cost of higher education, with the abolition of development monitoring, and there is probably more to come. Is that really what you wanted the moment you put your plan on the table?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U122	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U123	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Indrek Saar! Instead, I would like to ask you back how it was possible that in those years when the Social Democrats were in government and the economy grew by over 4% in one year and by 5% in the second year, the Estonian state was still able to spend hundreds of millions more than there were revenues. How was that possible? There was more and more revenue, but the hole you left behind and the next one you have to climb out of became bigger and bigger. This situation, where we are now and where we must step by step with the current government, to come out of which we must be able to lead the country, is not caused by a very difficult and difficult crisis, but is rooted in precisely those years when, among other things, socialist alcohol policy led Latvia to have an excise duty of over EUR 100 million. This is a hole that needs to be climbed out now and from which the current government is making great efforts to climb out. You referred to companies, businesses and their expected support. I think that the additional budget that was very much supported in this Parliament this year of the crisis was also a very good example of a rapid response where this rapid response was necessary in order for businesses to be supported. As regards the review of the State's costs, keeping an eye on the state's costs, their constant review is one of the self-evident, necessary and most natural activities of state administration at all. The gift-sharing, I think, can handle Santa Claus too. It doesn't require government or ministers. For years, we have heard this demand for state reform. If I am not mistaken, the Social Democrats have been one of the forces that called for such changes in the view of reviewing the state's expenditure. What is this state reform about? It is precisely the review of the justification of expenditure and the annual control of expenditure. It is not about adding new costs. So what we are doing and seeing now is part of the state reform. The fact that there have been very painful reactions to proposals, some of which have been very irritating at the first end, I think, is quite natural. But this process is only at the beginning.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U124	The question to be specified. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U125	Thank you! I really have to express my surprise that going to the government has not worked well for you, or that it is the other way around, and it can be called inspirational. You have taken over EKRE rhetoric and manipulations with numbers concerning alcohol duty and its reduction. But yes, I remember that your party has had a long-standing friendship with a brewery that has also manipulated numbers in this situation. Of course, they had enough motivation to prove that something had to be done differently. The fact that you are doing this as Minister of Finance is, of course, a question of your own. I would point out that, as far as the reform of the state is concerned, this reform work must be carried out by the Ministry of Finance in a very wise and prudent manner, not by throwing an axe into everyone's hands, so now go and chop somewhere. That is why I am asking you: is what we are seeing now, that the cuts are at the expense of children, education and culture, your request, and are you now satisfied with where we are going with these cuts? I'm asking for an answer to that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U126	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U127	So let's take turns taking your arguments. First of all, when it comes to saving and reviewing expenditure, it is, of course, the decision of each head of government and the question of priorities of which expenditure can, and is reasonable, be continued, redesigned, terminated or reduced within the limits of the budget. The Minister of Finance cannot make these choices. As Minister for Finance, I can honestly provide information and an overview of the country's real financial capacity, the tax revenue that taxpayers bring to the budget and within what limits. In each specific area, however, these choices can only be made by the head of the field, who is a minister in each specific area of government. That is the essence of the policy. Why else would this minister be needed if he cannot or does not have to make these substantive choices? As far as recreational education is concerned, municipalities actually report a series of ways in which there will be no problem with the funding of recreational education. This has been done by small municipalities, we call Järva parish, but it has also been done by large cities, the last one can be called Tallinn. That's natural. Financing of recreational education is by law the responsibility of municipalities. I am grateful to all the municipalities who understand the solidarity with the country during this very difficult financial situation. If the budget revenues of the municipalities rise, as they will in the coming years, the local governments will be able to continue with both the groups of interest and the education of interest, without causing any changes to the disadvantage. Very many municipalities have promised to do so. Once again, thank you and congratulate them. The intermediate hysteria that accompanied the 7 million changes was actually redundant. The reason for this, too, must be sought out in the approaching local elections and the heightened need for attention. But when it comes to alcohol excise, let's say the numbers. In 2017, 276 million were planned for the state budget. 221, or 55 million less. In 2018, 332 million were planned. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] It's got 231. Maybe 150 million less. 150 million is the hole you inherited next.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U128	Now, one more question. Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U129	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the acting Prime Minister. I thought I couldn't be surprised at anything else in this hall, but you guys did today. Instead of answering the questions, you began to dissect the work of previous governments and to ask your own questions to the chairman of the opposition party. I hope this does not become a tradition in our Question Time, so we do not finally understand who asks and who answers. However, can you confirm that you have done well in your work as Minister of Finance, if you roll some decisions over to your colleagues' ministers without having a bigger picture, which means for each specific area, on the other hand, you are placing the country's responsibilities on local governments, from agreements in the context of education of interest and activities of interest to orchestras that the state cannot sustain, and local authorities are taking over? What's next? In the rescue service, in the field of internal security, many [things] have already been placed on volunteers, their mission. How far do you go in this job? Do you admit that you have still been completely incompetent to find these financial solutions yourself instead of rolling it on colleagues, local authorities or ordinary citizens?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U130	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U131	Thank you very much. You ask a question, and then you get upset if the answer doesn't suit you. I can't do that. Once again, the reason why we are now in Estonia in this situation, as we are financially speaking, is long-term in terms of the state of the budget and public finances. Its roots lie not in the previous year, not in that year, but in fact in many previous years, when the economy was doing very well, the economy was growing, the state's revenues were growing and, nevertheless, the spending was much more expensive than the revenue gave it opportunities. That is the reason for this problem, and that is why we are now in a situation where we have accumulated this crisis and we have to gradually reduce the budget deficit, step by step, and come out of it. We compare the situation in Estonia with the situation in a number of other countries of the European Union. Even after we make the first quite serious effort next year to reduce the budget gap, we are not in the best position among the countries of the European Union. We are somewhere in the middle of our budget deficit, which we are reducing exactly as much as we can, we are not doing it more than we can, and we are not making it even in one or two years, because it is simply not possible. With our budget deficit, we are below the average level of the European Union, i.e. our deficit, our budget gap continues to be higher than that of the European Union on average. Public finances are not a fetish of any kind or something irrelevant; the whole economic environment depends directly on it, the image of the state for investors depends on it, the welfare of the people ultimately depends on it, whether they come here to invest, whether jobs are created, whether they are prepared to pay wages in that country. The assumption is that the state's own finances are in order. That's why we're doing this right now. As regards, once again, the education of interest you have mentioned, the provision of recreational education, the provision of circles, is currently the task of the municipalities, by law. It's a valid law that says so. When we talk about the amount of recreational education, it was EUR 165 million, according to data from last year, both in the field of youth work and in the area of support for sport. We're not talking about $7 million. 165 million euros is what goes into recreational education through youth work and sport. Municipal revenues will increase by an additional EUR 285 million over the next four years. This means that the money is in the municipalities more...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U132	[[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U133	... to provide services in the field of recreational education even more, not less. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U134	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U135	Let us move on to the second question. Henn Põlluaas, member of the Riigikogu, will ask for this, will be answered by the Minister of Defence Kalle Laanet, and the subject will be the damage to national defence capabilities. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U136	[[Remote connection]] ... We know that the international security picture is more than worrying not only elsewhere but also in our region. Russia, which is becoming increasingly aggressive, has a clear advantage over NATO in the Baltic Sea region. Looking at how busy our allies are with the US and European countries with other problems and regions, we can only see that our level of danger is increasing. You yourself admitted yesterday that there was no improvement. There is only one and only conclusion to be drawn from this: we must ensure our primary and independent defence capacity. In other words, Estonia's defence capabilities must grow at an accelerated pace. This is one of the few issues where the different political parties have been in agreement for years. Your government shattered this consensus and cut the increase in the defence budget of nearly EUR 100 million over four years. An already unambitious and non-real threat assessment development plan will simply blow up with the necessary investments and national security. General Ants Laaneots, a member of the Reform Party, honestly said that the fifth column of the Kremlin is behind the kill programme and that damaging Estonia's defence capabilities is only beneficial for Russia. It seems to me that his analysis is correct and justified in every way. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U137	Thank you. One moment, please, Minister. We also have a procedural question in the meantime. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U138	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I actually wanted to ask before Henn Põlluaas could begin to ask. Mr President, you did not say at the beginning of Question Time how many additional questions might be asked. That is why I, purely courtesy, let Eduard Odines' first question get ahead of me, and now I let Kalle Grünthal in front of me, and I thought they would have two additional questions asked. That's when I found out in the polls that there was only one of them. Would it still be possible to give two additional questions, so I could ask Keit Pentus-Rosimdose as well as Kalle Laanet?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U139	Thank you. Yeah, I'm sorry I didn't just say that rule right away, but I was following this practice that we've had, that if there are ten or almost ten questions today, we have 13 of them, then there's one concrete and one additional question. I'm going to follow that in briefing today. But I agree with you, Mr. Randpere, that it should have been dropped right away. Thank you. Please, Minister Kalle Laanet!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U140	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Minister of Finance! Dear former colleagues in the Chamber, members of the Riigikogu! I'll start by explaining. A country's budgetary strategy was adopted in autumn 2020, indicating that in 2021 the national defence budget will be EUR 646.5 [million]. By 2022, this RES document will amount to EUR 715.6 [million]. If I take off the new RES, there's a number 712,3 for 2022. If I untie the 2020 Autumn RES and see how much financial resources are meant to be made available to the Ministry of Defence by 2023, this number is 695.7. If I take this RES apart, here's the number 700, 3. Let's look again at the previous RES, this number by 2024 is 689.5, and if we look at the adopted RES, it will be EUR 697.1 million. Those numbers that you brought me, I don't know why you gave them, but I just read to you the numbers that are in the two documents that have been adopted. As for your specific question, which is what General Ants Laaneots has meant under his fifth column, you must ask him what he means.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U141	Now for an additional question. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U142	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, There has been a lot of noise among the people and among the military, among the serious military, in view of the intention to liquidate the military orchestra. It is also intended to eliminate the chaplain in the military. There's a lot of confusion. Please stand up and answer specifically if the military orchestra stays. Yes or no? Will the chaplain stay? Yes or no? You don't want a long story, people want to figure it out.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U143	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U144	Thank you. If a honourable member of the Riigikogu tells me to stand up, of course I will stand up and worship. Answer: The Minister of Defence has not made his decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U145	Now, the question to be specified. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U146	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Don't lie to the Riigikogu. Your government will cut the increase in the defence budget by nearly EUR 100 million over four years. Estonia's defence spending is already some of the lowest in the entire NATO, we are even behind Latvia and Lithuania. Our NATO allies have long stressed that, although we set an example with our 2% for some countries, today's level is far from sufficient. They have stressed that we need to increase our defence budget in order to fill all important gaps in capabilities as a matter of urgency. If we still intend to defend our independence, there is no alternative in today's deteriorating security situation. The defence budget must grow in an accelerated fashion, as it was previously planned, and more. However, the government has chosen a different scenario, which is directly acceptable to Russia, and is breaking the foundations of an unintelligible country without thinking about the consequences. Cutting nearly 100 million euros from the defence budget seriously undermines Estonia's defence capabilities and the motivation of our NATO allies to protect us in the event of aggression. They are asking why they should spend their own taxpayers' money and risk the lives of their own people if the Estonian government knowingly undermines the security situation throughout the Baltic and Baltic regions. The ancient Romans asked about the backgrounds of the processes under way, "Cui bono?" Or, "Who's it for?'. Perhaps you will enlighten us who will benefit from the damage to Estonia's defence capabilities and NATO umbrella and this scenario at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U147	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U148	Thank you. Honourable member of the Riigikogu Henn Põllaas! This year, the defence budget will be 2.29% of GDP. Next year, it will be 2.31% of GDP. Not in any subsequent year of the RES will Estonia's defence budget fall below 2%, plus the defence investment programme, plus the expenditure of the host country. So what you are saying is extremely important when you talk about the 200 million documents you are relying on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U149	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U150	Let us move on to the third question put by Priit Sibul. This is answered by Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus in the role of Prime Minister and the subject is Estonia's security. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U151	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. Of course, I'm talking about the same thing I've been talking about here before. I'd be cheating if I said I was surprised we had these issues ahead of us, but it was unexpected. Let's just look at the handwriting that the Reform Party has had under the direction of the Ministry of Defence: the loss of military intelligence, in its time the will to lose military service and replace it with a payroll army. Luckily, though, some things have not been done. Kalle Laane was just referring to the size of the budget this year and the size of the budget next year. We know that the defence budget has always increased in millions of euros. But the proportion of gross domestic product has never been as close to 2 as it is now with subsequent RES decisions. Perhaps, however, you will tell us exactly what task the government gave to the Ministry of Defence, how much this government plans to reduce defence costs and what these amounts will become over the years in relation to GDP?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U152	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U153	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good questioner! Then let's start at the beginning. For the first time in Estonia's history, the time will come next year when defence costs will rise to more than 700 million euros. We have never spent as much protection as we will next year. In 2022, the budget for defence will be EUR 712 million. If we compare this year, the increase next year will be over EUR 60 million. If we compare growth alone, it is twice as much as it was gained this year, for example. When we talk about the government's discussions on defence investment, the government is absolutely firmly responsible for the international commitments that we have made to invest at least 2% of our gross domestic product across the board in defence costs, we are fulfilling and this cannot be any other way. This is the case throughout all the years of the country's budgetary strategy. In addition, the so-called Host Nation Support is the costs that Estonia is happy and proud to bear, which are related to the stay of the allies in Estonia. Similarly, the defence investment programme, which must be continued, continued and invested in by the government. In all the years of the country's budgetary strategy, this is the country's budgetary strategy approved this spring, the amount of money to be protected is higher than it will be in 2021. That's the way it is, and that's a fact.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U154	The question to be specified. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U155	Thank you. I absolutely agree with that and even in my introductory question I referred to the fact that there is no point in talking about absolute figures, but that it was a request to talk about it as a relationship to gross domestic product. This is how we have accounted for our defence costs since 2000. Of course, the economy is growing and defence costs are also increasing; the other way around it would be impossible. In this sense, you and your partymates are extremely good and you talk about growing up all the time. I'm looking, they're talking about 2.5, but actually, defense costs are going down to 2.02. They haven't been so low in a long time. Since this was a more general question about these numbers, I'll keep asking. The Minister has indicated that the budget strategy contains one of the sources of additional resources for the Port of Mine. The day before yesterday there was an interview with the new chancellor, where he indicated that it was now agreed that if the assets were to be transferred, they could be used by the Ministry of Defence itself, they would no longer be received by the state budget. The second argument was that the Port of Mine had come into one of the Excel tables, I got the impression, even because of some randomness, or I didn't understand exactly what the context was, but there is no plan to realise it in the near future and there is no plan to do it, and it is a budgetary matter that he is there. Perhaps you can comment on whether security is also being reduced through the Mineport, where the government has planned to move to the naval base, and whether it is a technical or substantial source of cover?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U156	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U157	Thank you. All the plans that are included in the country's budget strategy are real and if, for whatever reason, one or the other plan does not materialise in this form, it must be replaced. It can't be any different. Since you very much want to talk about the budgetary strategy of the previous country that was adopted at the end of last year, let me talk about the budgetary strategy of the country that you approved. The problem with this was that it contained EUR 1 billion of non-existent money. There never was the money you signed up for or your very close fellow fighter, a good friend and colleague Urmas Reinsalu signed up for it. You love to talk about the hundreds of millions that were planned for, but the profits were simply left out. It has to be said that these hundreds of millions, unfortunately, are made up of nothing but, I don't know, empty words and air carrying them. This basically budgetary fraud is certainly not worthwhile and should not be promoted. I am very surprised that you and your colleagues continue to do so and that these comparisons are produced. It can then be stressed once again that in all the years of the country's budgetary strategy, the amount of money going to defence expenditure is, firstly, more than 2% of our gross domestic product if you are interested in a percentage, and, secondly, more than it will be in 2021 as an absolute figure. Where it goes, I'm sure the Secretary of Defense sitting on my right is ready to talk about it in detail and for a long time, but I'll give you a few examples. The power of the Estonian naval war will be significantly strengthened. We're planning on getting a coastguard missile system. Prepare the purchase of marine mines. The Defence Forces are getting a new generation of modulating bullet and rubble vests. Training opportunities for military armored units are significantly improving, armoured gun lines are being built on the central polygon, etc. The armed forces shall be provided with 120-millimeter mortars in order to renew the existing driving beam capability, etc. These are actually covered expenditure in the field of defence. This is the biggest difference between the previous RES and the one adopted this year, that the expenditure planned this year is actually covered by money.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U158	Now, one more question. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U159	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! In fact, I would like to say to you, not 'good Minister of Finance', but 'good Minister of the Excel Table', because my mouth refuses to call you the Minister of Finance. You want to rewrite history here, mocking charges against previous governments. But I'll remind you who's actually spent it. The audit of the National Audit Office has shown that the state reserves were actually spent to a very large extent under the rule of Taavi Rõivas. With the massive increases in excise duty, which eventually made taxes go to Latvia, the Reform Party also started. You have done irreparable damage not only to the state budget, but also to people's health behaviour, to which a great deal of resources had been invested at that point, and also very good results have been achieved. You're like an evil stepmother who picks up little pieces of children from the table and takes them to the pantry where they get moldy, but as long as they don't eat. I would like to remind you that, at the moment, the printing of money and inflation are eating up so much of this money that the only good money is money spent, money spent sensibly and on people, not money saved for a dogmatic budget. Why are you doing this? But since the question was about Estonia's security, I ask: why are you cutting at the expense of Estonia's security?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U160	I have a request for everyone in this hall and for myself that we keep a respectful tone to each other. The Minister of Finance is responsible for the Prime Minister's duties, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U161	Thank you, good questioner! Why is the current government in a situation where public spending needs to be reviewed and why it is necessary to improve the budgetary position year after year, I stopped at a very long time in answering the previous question put by the Socialists. This situation, from which the Estonian state must come out in budgetary terms, is very serious. It is also directly linked to a very long view in advance, because, despite the overspending of public spending, we are getting very easily into a situation where people's quality of life is actually deteriorating, the services that can be provided from the state budget, according to which expectations and needs are beginning to decline, because the financial opportunities are simply becoming scarcer. This is the reason why costs need to be reviewed. Once again, overly saying: it is not only about the crisis, it is about the years of the crisis. If we were to deal with the effects of the crisis alone, it would probably be possible to get out of this situation much faster, in just a few years. But since the problem is much wider and longer term, it will take much more time. With regard to this claim that you or your [party] in general, or anyone else, are just tired of these stories and tired of the need for fiscal policy to be responsible, cost savings are certainly not a convenient thing to deal with. Humanly, I understand that, of course. But look, it's about as good as saying that we're tired of talking about the earth being round, and for a change, we're talking about the earth being flat. It's okay, but I wouldn't recommend it. For a long time, it is certainly not reasonable or understandable from the point of view of the State.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U162	I will conclude on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U163	Let's move on to question four. The member of the Riigikogu, Helmen Kütt, will ask for this, and the Minister of Health and Labour Tanel Kiik will answer this and the topic will be the organisation of the work of family doctors. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U164	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister for Health and Labour, Today, 19 May, the International Day of Family Doctors is celebrated. I take this opportunity to congratulate and thank both the family doctors and their teams for the work they do during the crown virus and for everything they have done for people. In your video greeting this morning, and also in your press release, you mentioned that family doctors and their teams are closest to people, they are the first health care providers. It's all true. This day, in addition to thanking and congratulating family doctors, I have, unfortunately, one question concerning a good family doctor, Madis Veskimägi from Tõstamaa, who has had a long history of problems with the radiography office. He has invested business income in a health centre, 100,000 have been invested in a radiography office, he has arranged for the patients themselves to transport, for which he began to be punished and was told that this was not a family doctor's job. She's a family doctor with a list of nearly 3,000 patients, plus teleworking patients. And yet he does not have the opportunity to offer this closest aid to people, actually saving taxpayers' money. He has the authority to do so, but jurisdiction probably doesn't give him the right to do so. You are, in fact, very familiar with this matter. I've written to you several times about this. True, no answer has been received, but you have an opportunity to respond now. What should Madis Veskimägi, a family doctor with competence, skills, and excellent technology do to ensure that people who need help actually get it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U165	Tanel swing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U166	[[Remote connection]] Dear Helmen Hunter! Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Thank you for the question and for the floor. I would like to begin by congratulating once again all family doctors for the International Day of Family Doctors and by congratulating all teams of family doctors, both family nurses and all other health professionals who, in fact, are very important in health centres all over Estonia and can be said to be doing the very required work. Coming to your question, I am fully familiar with this debate, the debate. I have been in contact with several health experts on this subject. Unfortunately, there is really no consensus, no common understanding of how the situation can be resolved. It is one thing to carry out the necessary additional studies in terms of qualifications, which, of course, take time and do not solve this issue in a time-critical way for Dr Veskimäe and his patients. I've been talking to you on the phone on this subject, true, writing probably hasn't responded to the latest e-mails. I'm sorry about that. The problem has really been on my desk, but there is no prepared solution within the health sector. What is there to deny, in recent months, in order not to say more than a year, of course working hours and hours are mainly spent on issues related to the field of COVID-19, which concern both the level of family doctors, the work of hospitals and the coordination of all kinds of other health care institutions. In this sense, all of these, as well as very important issues, which I certainly do not have to cut, have received somewhat less attention, both from me and from the wider health sector. But I hope we can find a reasonable solution at some point.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U167	The question to be specified. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U168	Thank you very much for your answer. It wasn't really smarter than that answer, but I really hope that now that the kroon virus is retreating, people get vaccinated, you might have a lot more to do with it. The radiation law states that radiation work can be performed by a radiologist, a radiology technician or a doctor who has studied it. In his reply letter to Madis Veskimäe, Vice Chancellor Maris Jesse wrote that a cardiologist or an orthopedic, but not a family doctor, was intended here. What do you think, maybe it's time to go over it? Especially in this context, where we build family medicine centres and social work is carried out together. You said there hasn't been time for the crown virus. Yes, perhaps with regard to the crown virus, it would have been very good if this aid had also been available on the ground in terms of its capabilities, people should not have taken these pictures from Tõstamaa, for example, to Pärnu. But doesn't the interpretation that a cardiologist or an orthopedic, but not a family doctor, deserve a bit of expansion at the level of the law? It doesn't have to be an obligation for a family doctor, it could be an opportunity. We have good family doctors who are doing more today than the legal obligation is. Why do we not want young doctors to have innovative benefits, as you have pointed out in today's press release, that already experienced doctors (specifically Madis Veskimäe has worked for more than 20 years) would be granted more rights if they have the competence to do so? I very much hope that this issue will also come up with a solution, and you will also announce it in writing. But, of course, I am also prepared to formally ask a written question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U169	Tanel swing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U170	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Obviously, how to interpret the law has, of course, been more to explain the legislator and the authors of the law at the time, also through the explanatory memorandum. The fact that at a certain moment, the competences of family doctors and, more generally, of health professionals should be reviewed on an ongoing basis, simply changes to the system and negotiations in this area will never go very quickly. When we talk about doctors, we talk about nurses, we talk about different roles, responsibilities, rights, these debates are long-term. When we are talking about family doctors, it is important to take the opinion and input of family doctors' associations here and, more generally, the assessment of other doctors, specifically specialised doctors, as regards the provision of different health services. I think you should look at it a little bit more in a wider circle and in a broader view. But I agree with this principle in itself that, if, for example, there are family doctors or doctors in any other field who acquire skills in further training, want to provide additional services, they should also be legally able to prove their qualifications or obtain qualifications with less difficulty than to complete the residency of the new profession or any other such choice that lasts for years.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U171	Now, one more question. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U172	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In the world, and especially in the United States, one of the most guarded secrets is the nuclear suitcase codes, which allow you to start firing your missiles at the enemy. Russia probably has the same problem that the most guarded object is the codes for the nuclear suitcases. Estonia has now been added to this list, where there is an insane desire to monitor the number of reproduction cycles in testing COVID disease. It's a little worrying why it's being guarded. I asked Foreign Minister Liimets at ELAK, which is the number of reproduction cycles. Her poor thing left her microphone open and asked her counsellor who was behind the scene to tell me what to do. There was no answer. There has also been no response in three weeks. The health department said we can't say that. On Monday, I asked you what the number of reproduction cycles is. You said you didn't know I'd ask the Health Board. Minister, you are the god of this field, and God must know everything. Please tell me the number of reproduction cycles testing the COVID infected. I'd like to make another little comparison. Likely, without knowing this number, the comparison is that the smoke detector is put on the ceiling, but it is so sensitively dimmed that even cooking water causes it to blur. If you do not know the answer now, I will expect it in writing within two days.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U173	Tanel swing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U174	Mr Grünthal, thank you again for your question. To begin with, the comment is so much that no man should raise himself or anyone in any aspect of life into God's status, I think. I certainly don't do that for myself. As I referred to you earlier, the question is that different tests are being carried out by PCR, faster tests are being carried out, for example in hospitals, more thorough tests are being carried out in different laboratories, so it is SYNLAB, it is the Health Board, it is these hospital laboratories. This number of reproductions may vary from one test to another. That is why my recommendation was really to send this question in writing to the Health Board, who will explain and explain various options to you. All the more so when we talk, for example, about statistics on daily positive tests, it takes into account both PCR tests and antigen tests, for which there are different technologies, different methodologies. Perhaps, in the case of tests, I think it is right to hold this debate with health experts, rather than decide in any way at political level what is right or wrong in the number of reproductions and what the sensitivity of the correct test should be. These tests are deliberately equivalent to the so-called gold standard worldwide; they are very sensitive to detect these positive particles, or coronavirus RNA, in the human body. Often, it can be said that [human] may already be residual positive, that it has suffered from this disease, but this sensitivity helps to find positive results more quickly and, if necessary, to direct or assist people in self - isolation. Perhaps even if there are people among them who are residually positive or have passed through, it is also an important finding or knowledge in comparison to the fact that these tests are significantly less sensitive and sick people would not be identified and spread this infection. Looking at the decline in our infection rates, it can be seen that the results of these same tests, the same methodologies, show very clearly that vaccination, restrictions and, to say the same thing, seasonality have a clear effect. We see that the proportion of positive tests is decreasing, we see that the number of positive tests is decreasing. All of this is correlated with the need for hospital care, the picture we see in the view of deaths. In the principle, we can see that these trends support and confirm each other. There is no situation where hospital care, for example, would fall, but at the same time the proportion of positive tests would increase or vice versa, but rather they show that the methodology of the tests, the testing options chosen, have been correct. But I suggest you really send these questions in writing, you will be able to answer in writing about various tests, different methodologies, different forms of laboratory analysis that are taken into account in the daily Health Board review of positive tests.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U175	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U176	Let us move on to question five. Helle-Moonika Helme, a member of the Riigikogu, asks for this, is answered by the Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus in the role of Prime Minister and the subject is the situation in the country. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U177	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I'm gonna start with one of your performances on the news channel last night. I thought it was ERR's AK, where you said it was wrong to come to society to upset prematurely with messages about cuts. I am referring here to the loss of the military orchestra and the PBA orchestra and the chaplain service. Then who has said anything prematurely, and who are you pointing the finger at? At all, the question arises as to whether ministers in the government do not know what their subordinates are doing. In April, we saw the police decide to use excessive force in demonstrations. In May, we saw the battalion leader decide that soldiers shouldn't wear uniforms. There is continuing chaos in vaccination, digital history is about and there is chaos. Although almost 100 million have been put into IT developments in the Ministry of Social Affairs over the years, this tiger-vigor is still lame and, again, no one is responsible. There is only one continuous expost explanation and wrestling. First we had a lying Minister for the Interior and Prime Minister, and now there was a lying and spinning Minister for Defence. The Minister of Health and Labour is constantly wrestling and is a completely hopeless case. The Minister of Education is churning around the education of interest. Is it really just a matter of incompetent communication? Is it just the government's messages that are uncoordinated, or is the whole government's work uncoordinated that hurts? How, then, should citizens feel about this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U178	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U179	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable questioner! Fortunately, of course, we have an opposition that is very constructive and not only puts forward criticism, but also substantive proposals. That was a little irony. However, when you mentioned vaccination, it is true that the current view or expectation of economic growth, which is linked both to this year's expectations and, in fact, to next year's expectations, is very much linked to the vaccination capacity. In essence, this concerns both our own domestic developments and, of course, our major trading partners in general. There is a solution to vaccinate, vaccinate and vaccinate. I know that the Minister of Health, in essence, sounds like an exaggeration when I say that 24 hours a day full days are dealing very seriously with this issue, so that the bottlenecks that have arisen and the failures that have also arisen in the registration of vaccination can be resolved as soon as possible. There's no other way. I only wish him luck. The entire cabinet and I have said that if there is anything to be done, it must be done. As regards the review of costs and this process, I believe that, in fact, the members of the cabinet, the members of the government, agree with me when I say that, in a situation where the level of social stress is already quite high, it is reasonable that the changes that are being made are as far as possible in the details, before they are thought out in any way insufficiently prepared. I think that this is also reasonable in the interests of such social clarity. It's not just pointing a finger at someone, it's more like a description of a reasonable working arrangement. Such incomplete, unthought out, not yet comprehensive solutions, this may seem kind of nice at first, but really, the futile reactions that would not have been, if a comprehensive and thoughtful plan had already come to the public, are not needed at this stage. I believe that this is the principle on which the members of the Cabinet, as a whole, are based.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U180	Now, one more question. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U181	Thank you, Mr President. The issue is about the state of play in the country. I have a question about this, the honourable Minister of Finance in his duties as Prime Minister. Looking at the whole picture, I find the desire of your government to preserve and preserve the Republic of Estonia very questionable. Namely, your planned fuel increases are a very serious blow to people's and companies' wallets. You intend to put on sale state-owned companies that actually generate significant revenue to the Estonian Treasury as well. What is completely incomprehensible is that, in essence, you are planning to reduce the defence budget and to take away the defence capability in the sense that you do not want beach defence or mid-earth anti-aircraft here. Then you will reduce the amount of dividends received from RMK. The construction of four-way roads in principle, at least according to the explanations, you intend to stop, no repairs are going to be made, somewhere 900 or 800 million have not been planned. And, of course, the most famous thing, the heroir, where you cut through the miners' dynasty continuity. Someone's gonna have to start mining mineral resources later. It is clear that if Estonia does not have these people, it will be done by someone else, a foreign company or a corporation. Question: who are you planning to hand over the Estonian state to in the future, to any company, state or anyone? Your actions indicate you're planning this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U182	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U183	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good questioner! A debate on the key functions of the state, how to perform them most effectively in view of the financial opportunities that Estonia has, how and where to redesign the practice that has developed over the years, how to review, among other things, the political decisions that have been taken in some areas, perhaps 15 or 20 years ago, is very necessary. Understandably, this debate is not comfortable because, if something has already been adopted, inertia has become used to it over the years or decades, it is always very difficult to change it. But we know what the challenges Estonia is facing because of demographic changes alone. We know that we have fewer people who are working and who are maintaining the entire public sector with their taxes year after year. Therefore, the annual regular review of public spending is something that needs to be done, even if the initial reactions are defiant and not always immediately accepted with great ovation. Since you made a number of statements, I will try to touch them one by one in my reply. First of all, the cost of protection. National defence has never received as much money in the history of the Republic of Estonia as it will be next year. For the first time in history, we have over 700 million euros going to defence. Five years ago, this amount was less than EUR 500 million. This is a very important contribution to better defence. You mentioned RMK and mentioned as a criticism that the state would reduce dividends or less dividends from the State Forest Management Centre. Yes, he will. I think this decision should have been made earlier. I think the intermediate logging pressure put on the State Forest Management Centre was completely unreasonable, and I think there is a lot of state forest where we can see its results. This pressure is what the current government wants to reduce, and that is what we are doing. Construction of highways for four lines. A few weeks ago, I was here before you with the recovery fund, with the money of the European Union. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] About 160 million of EU money, among other things, will be devoted to building four-line roads. This is not about the recovery fund, but about the European Union's money for the next period. You've been very critical of that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U184	Good answer, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U185	Decide whether you're in favour or against. Both of them can't be done at the same time. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U186	Let's keep going. Now, the question to be specified. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U187	Thank you, President-in-Office. I would still tease you a little bit more, Minister. You mentioned a comprehensive plan. That's what we really need, that's right, but there isn't, or even if there is, communication is still such that we don't hear about it. I'm saying that the previous government was very good at disproving its decisions. We'd like to help you. You said we might be poning all the time. We'd come to your aid, but you're not listening to anyone. What I see is that with this kind of wrestling and crazy communication, life in the country is still getting more and more unsafe, because you never know what kind of crime the government is going to come out with again. Every day new and new shocking messages, messages that are apparently uncoordinated and that scare the people. Cultural people will get a cold shower, cut from here and there, and still at the expense of ordinary people. Who brings you all these things on the table, is it officials? Is it now your government's trademark that the country is run by unauthorized electoral officials who are not really responsible for anything and who are taking decisions for you in a row and in a row? Did you take the responsibility of the government to think that, while the officials do this job for you, you can only flourish and cut the tapes before the elections? But as a result of this lack of leadership, the Prime Minister will, by the end of the day, simply be dragged along everything that is going on and not responsible for anything. The ministers of the previous government took all the responsibility, but you're just making it numb. The only thing we know about the Prime Minister is that he's going home from work with a city bike flying his dress. This is your communication. The question is: what is the government doing, and what is going on there?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U188	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U189	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good questioner! The government is currently primarily in charge of managing the country out of the corona crisis. To this end, when we responded very quickly to the new wave, we made an additional budget of more than EUR 600 million, which brought relief to the health sector, both in terms of vaccination and testing, and provided very important additional support, both in terms of the continuation of wage support and in terms of providing support to the companies most hit by the crisis. Alongside this, its acute, now daily, still in Estonia, Europe and, in fact, the global economic crisis, we are making far-reaching plans. Of course, part of this work is aimed specifically at improving Estonia's prospects for the future, both by supporting competitiveness in business and by investing heavily in both the green turn and the digital revolution. We here not long ago argued with you about the European Union's plan to return to Estonia, you were blocking it, and very much of the belief that this billion Estonia does not need. But this, too, is an important part that is definitely supporting and boosting our economy. Right now, you can say that it's pretty much in the final phase. Thank you again to Parliament for the fact that, despite the obstruction policy of your group, Parliament has approved it with a very large majority, and this opportunity is now emerging. You say that you are happy to come to the aid, or that you are happy to make substantive proposals. At the moment, you are very critical of the cost savings of 60 million. At the same time, in the autumn of last year, you also wrote down a billion euros of cuts in the official national budget strategy adopted by your party. For a billion euros, not 60 million. What and where did you plan to cut this billion? Was it half the pension, was it the cost of protection, was it education, was it social or health care? Then come out with your package, which you had last year, which included a cut in costs of EUR 1 billion.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U190	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U191	Let's move on to question six. Raivo Tamm, member of the Riigikogu, has submitted it, and the defence minister Kalle Laanet responds and the subject is national defence. Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U192	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. It seems that the opposition and government of the Riigikogu are currently talking about cuts in one garden and another about a garden hole. We are talking, as has already been heard here, about GDP, the percentage reduction in defence costs, with the help of millions of your products, examples of how defence costs will rise. We still claim that the government reduced defence costs by more than EUR 50 million over three years compared to the RES approved by the previous government. In your comments both in Monday's session and in the press, you have pushed responsibility for cuts to the Defence Forces and said that the proposals for cuts will not come to you until June. My question is whether you really made a cut decision without having a clear decision that should be saved. Why do you not want to be responsible for Estonian national defence as Minister of Defence?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U193	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U194	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Thank you, Reverend Raivo Tamm! Not that I want to be responsible for Estonian national defence, but that I am responsible for Estonian national defence, and not only in the Ministry of Defence, I see it more broadly. Protecting the state does not only start with the Ministry of Defence, it starts with the whole country, it starts with people, whether these people want to protect the Estonian state or not. It's the same wide-spread defense. This includes very important alliances, etc. If you talk about this percentage, as an example, I can say that in 2011 a political decision was made that Estonia's defence costs would be at least 2% of GDP per year. However, in the intervening years until 2015, economic growth was so rapid that, although the decision was 2011 that 2% of GDP would go into the Ministry of Defence's administration, in 2015 the amounts that had grown since the economic growth were large enough to not achieve this 2%. What am I saying? Above all, what we can acquire and develop for the protection of the Estonian state for a specific amount of money is important. With these percentages, we can play one way or the other. In one case they produce the same result, in the other case they produce the opposite result because the numbers used to calculate change all the time, the economy is changing all the time, fortunately the economy is becoming better and better, which is economic growth. We talk on so many occasions, sometimes it seems to me, different languages. I understand that planning the field of national defence with its planning documents and planning of the state budget and the state budget that will be adopted in the Riigikogu are one of the different development and planning processes that make it difficult to understand as a whole and that is why it tends to use different numbers in different contexts. But I certainly agree with you that we must all stand up for Estonian national defence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U195	The question to be specified. Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U196	[[Remote connection]] Thank you! I believe that our willingness to defend is very well, and I believe that the Defence Forces serve a great purpose, which is to guarantee Estonia's security. The aim of ensuring security is to preserve the Estonian state, Estonian language and Estonian culture. It is precisely with the cultural sphere that I would like to continue. Rivo Jõgi, the conductor of the Orchestra of the Police and Border Guard Board, called the government's cut-off decisions to terminate the activities of the Police and Border Guard Orchestra and the Defence Forces Orchestra as a cultural genocide. My question is: why does today's government deal with cultural genocid?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U197	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U198	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good questioner! We know very well that we have a democratic state and that people can express their opinions in the media, in public space, anywhere else. As regards the orchestra of the Defence Forces in particular and the orchestra of the Police and Border Guard Board, the context was that the Commander of the Defence Forces made his decision known inside the Defence Forces. The Ministry of Defence and the Secretary of Defense have not decided on this day exactly what will happen to the military orchestra. I assure you, there will be a solution. I have told the leadership and leader of the military orchestra that please present your vision of how to proceed. I understand that the Head of the Defence Forces Orchestra and the Head of the Police and Border Guard Board Orchestra have not had the opportunity to get together and shape their views or opinions in two and a half days. This meeting will take place tomorrow, according to my knowledge. But I dare tell you that I have been looking for a solution in these days. This solution will come.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U199	Now, one more question. Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U200	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Minister, I will continue on the same subject. It was really good to hear from you right now that you're looking for a solution. But for Estonia, things of such great symbolic value as the orchestra of the Defence Forces or the gathering of chaplains in full are so deep into the people's souls. We've had singing parties since 1869; our brass music has grown along with our choir song. When you go to a singing party, watch these thousands of brass players across Estonia proudly look up to our two elite orchestras, and the young players think that I, too, would like to play in that uniform someday, be proud of Estonia and do my best by playing my instrument. If you take away this symbol value from them, what are they doing all over Estonia in all these small brass orchestras, for which they go to the music school to learn brass pills when there is no longer the top to go towards? It would be like taking away funding from the Olympics and leaving only public sport. The peaks are those who draw people along, who emotionally influence and maintain a protective spirit that is our cultural temples of deep symbolic value. It's not just a part of the Defence Forces. Do you not think that such a matter should actually be discussed at the level of the Riigikogu? The Riigikogu heard about this through the press on Sunday. These are such big things that it should actually be dealt with by the Riigikogu and the government, not just by one branch of the Ministry. Do you agree that communication can be improved, that such painful wounds should not be cut off by the people's souls and should not be heard by radio?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U201	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U202	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good member of the Riigikogu! I thank you very much for such pathetic views. I told you before, we're dealing with this situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U203	I'm going to finish the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U204	Let's move on to question seven. It has been presented by Jevgeni Ossinovski, which is answered by Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus in the role of Prime Minister, and the subject is the government's fiscal policy choices. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U205	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You're an experienced politician, but you're still studying the profession in this profession. I would therefore recommend that we refrain from such an animated primitive demagogue as regards monetary policy. I think it would be good for the Estonian state if the Minister of Finance were financially sound. Of course, I refer to the answers you have given today, blaming previous governments for the state's financial position. No doubt, different governments have also made financial mistakes, but it is important for the context to add that all budgets of Taavi Rõivas, for example, were also made in nominal deficit. It is certainly important to note that alcohol excise duty, when deflated, actually gained more in all years in the last decade, except for 2019 when it was lowered. You said it was the government's job to get the country out of the corona crisis. It is also a very important reminder that because your government completely lost the corona situation, it was necessary to adopt an additional budget with a price of 2.5% of GDP, without assessing the wider economic losses that have been incurred. Next year, you will plan a budget position of just 4%. In this context, the collection of all excise duties on alcohol, which was 1% of GDP, is not serious, Madam Minister for Finance. My question concerns the educational costs of the adopted national budget strategy. In fact, the government has unheard of the task of reducing the share of educational expenditure in the funding schemes of the Estonian state, which falls from 6% to 5%. There hasn't been one in the last ten years. This, of course, concerns higher education, teachers' salaries and all areas of great importance in Estonia's future view. Why are you doing this to education?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U206	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U207	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Mr. Ossinovski! First, of course, thank you for those proverbs. However, it cannot be over or around the fact that if the questioner is interested in why we have to make one or another decision now, it has its own background. And this background is particularly important from a fiscal and fiscal point of view. This background in Estonia is that the problems that have arisen as of the state budget and public finances have not arisen in the past six months, nor have they occurred in the last one and a half years, but their root causes are earlier. The fact that, in the years when the economy shows very rapid growth, as it showed in 2018 and 2019, it is possible to plan it in a very rapid way and to achieve a result where the costs are still higher than the revenue gains, despite the very rapid economic growth, this is a problem that we all have to solve and pick up here together. It is precisely the same choices and decisions that are now being made, not all of which are very simple, are not very pleasant and are not very comfortable to make. But there is no other way, because without doing so now, we would put an even greater burden on the next and, in fact, put the taxpayers in a more difficult situation from year to year, who at one point will have to bear this burden either in the form of even more painful and even bigger cuts or in the form of a very sharp tax increase. It just can't be allowed. Again, in financial terms, it is probably important to know that if you refer to a national budget strategy, these expenditures do not take into account and can not yet count on the European Union's money, which quite substantially alters this proportion. This is simply because these negotiations with the European Union are still ongoing. So this is not yet reflected in the Structural Funds money. As soon as there's an agreement, these numbers will change and they'll be reviewed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U208	Now, the question to be specified. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U209	Thank you. And I'm aware, I've also calculated that if it divides in equal parts between the years, it's 0.1 over 0.2% going to add to this 5,0. So the big picture doesn't really change. The most drastic cut in costs hits the education sector. It is, in fact, perfectly understandable that this is the case because, for example, social costs are highly revenue-dependent. For example, the health insurance fund's income increases with tax revenues, and pensions, benefits etc. are indexed in a similar way. In defence, which has been much discussed today, we know that we have an agreement that the percentage will be kept, which is why the money will come. There is still no such agreement in education. Consequently, if the government does not decide to give additional money to those who work in this sector and the expenditure on education is, of course, the highest proportion of people's salaries, teachers' salaries, teachers' salaries, the result is that this proportion will fall. So it's definitely just a so-called marker, it's a symptom. The diagnosis is in itself that education in Estonia is underfunded and this underfunding will actually deepen as a result of the choices made by you in the coming years. I want to ask you about the teachers' salary. I've already asked the Prime Minister that once. When speaking about higher education last week, the Prime Minister confirmed that it was not planned to allocate additional funding from the state budget to universities in order to ensure high-quality higher education training and increase the pay of teaching staff. He said something about coming up with private money. Well, that's a good old Reform Party story. Can you tell me if you are willing to give higher education institutions universally the right to take tuition fees, make some study programmes pay, or in what way do you intend to prevent this upcoming disaster in higher education in terms of finance?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U210	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U211	Thank you, good speaker! Honourable questioner! Firstly, we all hope, of course, that the renewable economy and economic growth that will be allowed in the coming years, provided that we can and can control the virus, will offer opportunities to alleviate these shortcomings and bottlenecks in different areas. Whether this is going to happen, in September this picture will certainly be better in the context of next year's view. The importance of investing in education and, in fact, investing in science, I think, we do not have any difference of opinion. It was also the government's principled decision that R &amp; D funding would remain precisely at least 1% of GDP (you previously referred specifically to the linking of figures to GDP). As far as higher education is concerned, the debate on how to bring extra money into the higher education system in such a way that as a result, no one's ability to obtain higher education and to receive it at a very good level in Estonia is underway with the rectors and universities. You may have noticed that the Rectors have already expressed their opinion quite actively. There will be no solution on this issue so that the government will impose anything on anyone. The solution can come in such a way that it is precisely with the various parties involved that these options and possible solution models will be discussed. The inclusion of private money in higher education, funding for higher education, is a sensible plan. How in detail or technically best to do this is, as has been said, to solve it and to develop a final solution here with universities.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U212	Now, one more question. Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U213	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You answered Mr Evgen's question: there is no other way. I don't want to believe there's really no other way. I think that somehow it is still possible not to engage in education, culture, mental health, children's activities and education of interest. There's still a different way, not to go after the weakest. You said this morning, in answering Mr Indreku's question, that what we are doing now and what we are seeing are part of the reform of the state. "The fact that there have been very painful reactions to proposals, some of which have been very irritating at the first end (these are your words. E. O.), I think it's quite natural. " I keep quoting you: " But this process is only at the beginning. " I would now like to understand, as a member of the Riigikogu, what will happen now, what will be in the next part of this process, or, as you mentioned, at the next end. How irritating are the following messages coming from you and how natural can you consider the following reactions to government decisions? What are we supposed to be prepared for next, if, in your opinion, attacking children, education, culture and mental health is such a thing without which there is no other way?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U214	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U215	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! We need to be prepared to ensure that the overall state of the country is in a much better way and that the problem that we currently have in public finances is addressed gradually, step by step. This will not happen in one year, as I have already answered a few of your colleagues today, nor will it happen in two years, because the situation that needs to be corrected is [is] and the hole that has to be climbed out is just so deep. It is also true that the easiest solution would be to do nothing, to allow it all to accumulate, to get deeper in the pit, because it will, if we do nothing from year to year, if we continue to spend more and more than how much revenue we have. The result of this is that, at one point, people are perceived daily and noticeable both in terms of the quality of the services provided by the state and in fact, there is a situation where there is no other way out than to increase taxes very strongly. It has been the decision of the current government that we do not want to see such a solution. Despite these complex, uncomfortable choices, there is nowhere else to push them. These changes need to be made step by step. If we look at the seventeen performance areas of the country to which the money is going, because you mentioned those in the most fragile situation, I say that, both in terms of well-being and health, the contribution that the country puts there will rise. These are precisely the areas that have been hit hardest in the crisis today. However, once again (I know that recreational education is an important issue for you, you have dealt with it repeatedly): the money that municipalities can channel into recreational education, as I have already answered one of the previous questions, will be nearly EUR 250 million more in the next four years. There is more money, which can also be used by local governments to provide hobby groups. And once again, thank you to the local governments who have already made these decisions that they want to use this money in this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U216	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U217	Let's move on to question eight. It has been submitted by Riigikogu member Leo Kunnas, meets the Defence Minister Kalle Laanet and the topic is the possible relocation of the Navy. Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U218	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Kalle! In the course of our consultation on Monday, we have already discussed this subject a little bit. I have now formulated 23 questions in nine blocks and sent them to the Ministry. I gave them to you too. In fact, I do not expect answers today because they are relatively technical and specific. You have the apparatus at the Ministry, the General Staff of the Defence Forces and the naval headquarters, who should be able to make these things clear by autumn when the new development plan is approved, so that they are included there. But these questions concern what has already been invested in the Port of Mine, what objects have been built there, how much it has cost, how many allies have put money in it and what exactly has been done for it. How do we solve the battalion's question and the question of guarding the President's residence if this change comes? What kind of infrastructure is needed in the new location? How much is it gonna cost? In what timetable are we going to build it, in which timetable are we going? If the Port of Mine went for sale, what would it be worth? What methodology is used to assess this and can it be used in the defence budget? Also, if this new location comes, how many marines are ready to move there at all, have any interviews or assessments been made? Is there infrastructure, social services in the new location, everything else you need to be there? Such a complex set of questions that I don't expect to answer right now, but it's just for reflection. I don't need an additional question either.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U219	Thank you. Kalle Laane, you have three minutes to use this time as you wish. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U220	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good asker Leo! I thank you for the help you have actually given to the Department of Defense in terms of your questions, because these are matters that our specialists need to analyse by autumn to take a stand. But I can answer a few of the questions I have noted. The Watch Battalion's movement from the Port of Mine to Paldiski has already been decided before me. This decision was made by Secretary of Defense Jüri Luige, and I owe you the exact answer on what date, but this decision has been made. [[A voice from the hall. The manager's ringing the bell.]] The second question is concerning the Port of Mine. Indeed, for the port of mine, all these analyses will be carried out by autumn in the framework of the National Defence Development Plan for RKAK. In autumn, they have to be on the table to make decisions. But thank you so much for thinking along, writing questions and sending them to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U221	Thank you. I would also like to thank Mr Kunnas for letting us know that he is not taking up the opportunity to clarify the question. A further question. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U222	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I read on the news yesterday that your chancellor has said that it is not the task of the Ministry of Defense to organise national defence, it is the task of the entire nation. Your colleague, or your subordinate, how we take it, we know that the new government doesn't have any subordinates, they're all delivering themselves, the Commander of the Defence Forces has said that we don't need mid-earth anti-aircraft, we don't need tanks, we don't need very many things. How can you imagine, then, how will the whole nation protect this country, whether with scythes and stings, if it is not the task of the Ministry of Defence and the defence forces say that they do not need weapons and that the people must protect it? How, then, do the people defend the country, and how do you feel about such an attitude?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U223	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Dear Mr. Helme! This morning, I was interrogating this section of the Rain Radio with the chancellor and the counsellor. There really is a little bit out of context in this section. Had the word "only" been there, i.e. "only the task of the Ministry of Defence," the idea would have been much clearer. But his idea, which we discussed together, was that defending the Estonian state is not only the role and responsibility of the Ministry of Defence, but also the responsibility of the whole state. I believe that the people in the Ministry of Defence are definitely subordinate, the other way round, colleagues. At the current stage of Estonia's development, it is not the most motivating to classify people as subordinates and superiors. Respect for people and respect for positions is what, according to my knowledge, is the driving force. I've been wearing a uniform for 20 years, I've been a minister, I've been a member of the Riigikogu, now I'm a minister again, and I think the most motivating thing is respect for each other, respect for the people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U224	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U225	Let us move on to question nine. It has been submitted by Riigikogu member Andres Metsoja, which is answered by Defence Minister Kalle Laanet, and the topic is national defence planning. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U226	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President of the Riigikogu. Very honourable Minister! Indeed, I would like to move more from this operational management to a strategic view, because national defence is certainly conceptual and is based on a long-term perspective, cannot be built in one year or probably only by means of a national budget strategy. You can give it directions. After all, the role of the Riigikogu is to deal with development plans. The context of the development plan has been quite close to both of us when we talk about the National Defence Development Plan. After all, the National Defence Development Plan has actually been treated as an important national issue during your coalition, it was in the Chamber of the Riigikogu on 23 March, and according to law, the Prime Minister also went to the National Defence Committee on 6 April to introduce it. In some ways, this is a tempting situation, because it was then that we talked about these possible scenarios. In fact, it seems to me that a common understanding has still been that national defence is a cross-party issue and the threat assessments given, and that allied relations also mean that our contribution has been strategically planned and negotiated. That's what we actually did. Let me get this straight. We are still facing the problem of 300 million being the amount that should be adjusted in ten years' time? Let me get this straight. The position that was taken from was actually 2,23% of GDP, but in 2024 we would still go to 2,02%.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U227	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U228	Thank you, good speaker! Honourable Member of the Riigikogu Andres! I need to be a little more specific about how this planning process is going. I think that everyone who looks at the briefing or is in the hall may not know that we have different planning documents: there is a four-year DOD development plan and there is a ten-year national defence development plan. After all, you and the other members of the National Defence Commission and I began to have a very strong influence last year in the drafting of the National Defence Development Plan. One part of this was certainly the debate on a very important national issue in this Chamber. We discussed in depth what capabilities should be achieved in ten years, so that Estonia would be protected in the best way. We've come to a situation where there's a change of government. There were certain circumstances, a new resource framework became clear, and consequently we have agreed on the Security Committee of the Government of the Republic, which was together this Monday, that we would postpone the adoption of the development plan until 1 September, rather the Ministry of Defence would have to present its military defence vision for 2022-2031 by 1 September. In the past, it was a development plan for the years 2021 to 2030, but in order to be clearer and more specific, since practically a year has passed, it would be up to 2031. All members of the Riigikogu who wish to contribute to their vision and their opinions are welcome to these discussions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U229	Now, the question to be specified. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U230	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for your explanation. But I'm also more than convinced, as you said, that basically this operational plan is probably going to work out, the military orchestra will remain in some form and the chaplain service will also. But these roots and problems are deeper. If we also have to change the development plan, then from the three scenarios that were painted for us at the time, we will move towards the ugliest scenario, if we look at the need to adjust the development plan. In the case of a crucial national issue, it was indeed pointed out at a higher level as one scenario that if we had to reach the need to cut up to 300 million in the long term for ten years, it would actually mean that South East Estonia would not be protected. Maybe it's over-dimensioned and sounds too grotesque, but yet, apparently, if we can find a solution to the military orchestra and the chaplain, then the question of the defence allies' equipment is still going to be at the table, whether we can actually give volunteers the equipment that has been long awaited. This equipment, which is today, is in a situation in which it should definitely no longer be in a position to protect and represent a person. So it seems to me that we are still facing a very big problem. On the other hand, perhaps it would be reasonable to consider this common section, the consensus that national defence in today's situation is the foundation of the state and will remain so, and this is where the instruments already agreed in the development plan must be envisaged.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U231	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U232	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Thank you, Andres! You see, life is constantly changing. 2019 was one situation in the economy, I mean, 2020 was a new situation, 2021 is a completely different situation. What's the situation in 2031? I don't think you can tell me, Andres. I don't think even Mart Helme can say that. We're making plans, but we can make these plans work in real terms. We make plans in our personal lives, and when life changes for certain reasons, we change that plan because we have no other choice. But I think the most important thing is that we all think about how best to protect Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U233	Now, one more question. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U234	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Of course, I can tell you how we should behave, and the question has something to do with it. We keep getting news from our eastern neighbor. The eastern neighbor has moved two army corps and his troops to our borders. True, not only close to Estonia's borders, but, let us say, to the western border in general. The news has just come that the Baltic fleet will be supplemented with surface vessels, submarines and shore installations, and very mobile missile launches will be added as a new or not entirely new but more numerous type of weapon. That is my question: should we not reject all the development plans so far, should we not, in this situation, where we are seeing an increase in the threat of war that we can see from day to day, take a considerable defence loan of up to EUR 1 billion and close the gaps in the quickest order?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U235	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U236	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Thank you, Mr. Mart Helme! Yes, certainly, one of my first priorities, which you also mentioned, is the enhancement of maritime capabilities. This is certainly possible when two ministries put their backs together and the marine domain is amplified. When you're talking about a defense loan, we just heard from me on the left, that there was a need to put more money into an education of interest. When the next person, a member of the Riigikogu, comes to the hall, he finds that it is necessary to put [money] into agriculture. I agree that defence is the core function of the state and we need to think about how we can protect our country. Every proposal deserves a debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U237	Thank you. I'm going to finish the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U238	We will move on to the tenth question asked by Riigikogu member Eduard Odines, which is answered by the Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus in the role of Prime Minister and the topic is the budgetary choices of the government. Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U239	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As I understand it, these choices were painful and the cuts were in all possible areas. I myself have worked in the public sector for a long time, and I know what this myth is probably from the air to the budgets of various ministries. For me, these budgets are rather than joined vessels: if you want to put more on one side, you have to take them off the other side. We've heard a lot of these examples today, haven't we? If we want to maintain our defence capabilities, we need to lay off the chaplain service. If we're gonna raise the savior's salary, we're gonna have to save off the equipment. If we want to raise teachers' salaries, we need to halve our education of interest. If we want better terms for the police, we need to lay off the orchestras. The Ministry of Culture, for example, is likely to be reporting soon. I don't know what the next orchestra is, there's an orchestra out there, I hope you don't go after it. That's my question. Madam Minister, could you still make it clear in human language that, in fact, at the volume of the state budget, at the level of our debt, in the situation of our growing economy, there are 60 million sums of money that you found nowhere else and had to attack this alleged air or rather connected vessels, attack the most vulnerable groups and put ministers on the table, either the orchestra or the chaplain, the orchestra or children, etc. Did you have other options than cuts on the table?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U240	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U241	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good questioner! After all, it is generally known what choices can be made to cover costs. First of all, of course, we are not talking about the 60 million that have received the most, most lively attention and feedback, but we are talking about the fact that we actually have this budget hole, the deficit we have to come out of, many times bigger. If we have a budget deficit of more than 5%, if we reduce the budget gap by two percentage points next year, then this actually means that we will improve the overall budgetary position by more than EUR 500 million. That's the whole picture we're looking at next year. How do you do it, or what methods can you use to do it? The first point is certainly to keep the increase in additional costs under control at all. We cannot add successive costs that are beyond our income base. You just can't have that chance. We need to make sure that the costs are under control. The second option is to review already existing costs. Indeed, this is a natural part of government governance, that it is always analysed whether, where and how the most effective of this tax money, every tax euro is used, so that we have the assurance that it has really been done in the most efficient and reasonable way. This, too, is a natural and permanent activity that must be done in all areas. It is necessary to constantly review and analyse previous policy options and decisions whether all of them are best targeted at this stage, whether they continue to be up-to-date or whether changes and changes can be made. This has also been done both in the context of next year's budget and in the context of the country's budgetary strategy. There's gotta be, there's no other way. The third party is, of course, that if there is no willingness to review the costs, if there is no willingness to reform, then tax increases will come. There is really no desire or plan or desire in this government for us to go into the middle of the crisis to burden taxpayers already in a very difficult position with additional taxes. That's the choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U242	Now, the question to be specified. Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U243	Thank you, Madam Minister, for explaining these choices. You know, I'm the person who believes in women and women's pots, in the power of women like that. I am one of those who cried out with a loud voice, gave Facebook pictures, when Kaja Kallas' government took office, I was very proud that we now have the position of Minister of Education, Minister of Finance, Minister of Social Protection and Minister of Justice, in such very important strong positions as female ministers, that now there will be well-family, child, cultural and educational-friendly decisions, well-empathetic decisions. Because it is said that the more women in politics, in the Riigikogu, in the government, the more empathetic decisions come from there, the more empathetic are those choices that take into account the weakest, which do not allow the weakest to be hurt and take into account the soft areas that very often cannot stand up for themselves. Although we can see today that stronger areas, internal security, rescue, police, and national defence cannot stand up very strongly for themselves, because everyone is being attacked. My question related to this is whether I had excessive expectations of this empathy or whether I have misunderstood it. Rather such a question to you, Madam Minister, where did women's bout and empathy go in your government?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U244	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U245	Thank you, good speaker! Honourable questioner! The choice of increasing in the future the burden on the same people, who are still young, which they will have to bear, whether in the future they will be burdened with even greater budgetary and financial problems in the country, I think, is a very empathetic choice in its nature. There's no question for me if I have to make that choice. If this inconvenience in reorganising the expenditure that is now to be borne is to be borne by the proposals and decisions alone, on one side and on the other side there will be a much greater, much more difficult situation in the future, which has simply been imposed on the next arrivals, then I do not have this choice. I don't want to, and I don't have the heart to put them in a much more complicated and difficult position than we are now. That is why these choices need to be made now. I described the options that can be made within the budget. Still, if there is no desire to reform, if there is no willingness to review the costs, if there is no willingness and desire to review the policy choices that have been made and the policy decisions that have been made, be a man, back up and tell us what kind of tax increases you are talking about, what taxes you want to raise, whether it is VAT, whether it is income tax, whether it is excise duty, it is a social tax, and if you are prepared to do so, and if you think that it is justified to impose such an additional burden on future generations, in order to prolong their previous and current overliving. I don't think so. I think it is unfair, precisely, to the next generations, if, rather than keeping revenue and expenditure in balance now, we want to keep spending within the limits that we can, we want to impose an even greater burden on the next generations. It is unwise to do so; this opinion is certainly not shared by the current government, and this choice is not made.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U246	Now I am very much asking both the questioner and the respondent to keep a very fast pace. A further question. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U247	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Minister of Finance in the role of Prime Minister! My question actually has something to do with the whole subject that has gone through here today. With regard to defence capabilities, the EKRE, especially among Mart Helme's last questioners, has stressed that defence capabilities are actually facing disaster as a result of the actions of this government and that everything is very bad. At the same time, I think that for Estonia as a small country, it is most important that we are not alone. This means, on the one hand, that we have a good relationship with our allies, so that we do not insult them, so that we do not call the Finnish Prime Minister a salesgirl, advise our people not to flee to Sweden, where they can run around freely, if we do not like them here, so that we do not eat the corrupt bastard of the newly elected President of the United States and initiate or threaten an exit support group in the Riigikogu. At the same time, I see, of course, how the same EKRE and Mart Helme congratulate Putin that Putin has such a pharmacist's hand, and then I see that EKRE's leading characters are already working together or are planning to work with the Night's Watch. Then I think it's not good for our defenses now. On the other hand, it is, of course, important that we also put money into our defences in order to fulfil our obligations to our allies. But I am reminded of a promise that Mart Helme made before the elections. He allowed Donald Drumpilt, then president of America, to attract $1 billion to put it into strengthening Estonia's defence capabilities. My particular question is to you: have you seen this billion dollars, do you know, is it on the road, or was it just another Mart Helme and EKRE poem and fairy tale again?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U248	Thank you. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U249	Thank you, good speaker! Good questioner! Relations with the allies are absolutely essential for Estonia's security, we maintain these relations and develop them with the government. Similarly, it is important to show our support to those countries that are looking forward to this support. I think that the visit of Prime Minister Kaja Kallas to Ukraine is one way of confirming this support, precisely in the region where it is important. The billion you referred to, I have not seen or heard much more about it since it came out. So what category does this belong to exactly, it's, I think, everyone's choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U250	[[A voice from the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U251	Good Riigikogu, we will start the 15th working week session on Wednesday. It's time to hand over the drafts and enquiries. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U252	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The flea has hit all sorts of different fields. News from these fronts has become more and more bullshit every day. Of course, it is clear that in difficult times, ways to manage more efficiently must be sought, but savings in the educational and cultural spheres are beyond reason. And now this cut has also come to the Chancellery of the Riigikogu to save this general rush. Unfortunately, the board has considered it reasonable to cut the half million euros required here within the Riigikogu in an area where I find it completely unacceptable in a mature democratic parliamentary state: namely, to take the budget of an institution providing long-term monitoring of development. This certainly is neither right nor reasonable; the Social Democrats are seriously opposed to it. At the same time, it is clear that once the government coalition has decided to cut off budget expenditure, it is also necessary to find this place in its own budget in the office. The Social Democrats will initiate an amendment to the Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu, which will reduce the cost benefits of members of the Riigikogu from 30% to 20% until the end of its composition. This gives savings of half a million euros a year and allows the rest of the areas of the Riigikogu budget to be left untouched. This concerns both long-term monitoring of development and other important areas that are in the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. Thank you. The draft has been handed over digitally to the Board of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U253	I have adopted a draft on behalf of the Bureau. Of course, we will decide further according to the Home and Working Procedures Act. Now we're conducting a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U254	90 members of the Riigikogu were currently registered as presently present.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U255	Ladies and gentlemen, we also need to clarify a little on the agenda today. In fact, yesterday, if you remember, we were in the middle of discussing the draft Law amending the Law on the Protection of Animals and the Nature Conservation Act 219, which was initiated by 23 members of the Riigikogu. We were at second reading in the round of questions and therefore ask for the chair back to Peeter Ernitsa. For questions please register those we had in line yesterday. The order we had was Andres Metsoja, Imre Sooäär, Aadu Black, Riina Sikkut and Henn Põljaas. And if there's anyone else after them, please register. First, the question of justice is Andres Metsoja. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U256	[[Remote connection]] Indeed, the issues of animal and nature protection have been discussed in the Committee on the Environment in one way and another. We talked about nature conservation recently, in particular, in the context of the sale of land under conservation to the state. This was based on one court procedure, where it was actually said that today's practice is no longer working very well; it needs to be changed. The owner must be compensated for the loss of income or the real market price of that land. Finally, the Commission maintained that compensation should be included in the explanatory memorandum. You didn't mention that in your report. Did I somehow misunderstand, or do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U257	Thank you for your question. Yeah, it was, but right now I don't think it's there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U258	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U259	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! Animalists have often pointed out aspects of the living conditions of animals in these farms. They say they're not always the best. Commissions also make trips from time to time. I have the question whether the Commission itself has been to these remaining farms. Perhaps you can confirm that the Commission has information that the living conditions of animals in these remaining farms are exemplary? Can you confirm that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U260	Thank you for your question. Personally, I've been there many times, not all farms, but a lot of people. I've been in the village of Karjaküla, the biggest one, of course, lately, but there's been a emptiness yawning there for a long time. Even when we started with this composition and successfully beat the drum, that mink-keeping was dangerous, etc., these cages were long gone. And the conditions for keeping these animals are among the best in Europe. In order for them not to enter the wild, as I may have said yesterday, double gardens have been built: the stains and traps dug in the ground between these two, so it is quite difficult to get out of it. Yeah, I've been there, we haven't been together. But the conditions meet Europe's strictest standards in animal husbandry.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U261	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U262	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good Peter! There was talk about the economic aspects of bear breeding and the valuation of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, etc. I briefly had a conversation with my colleagues in the Baltic Assembly, more specifically with colleagues in Lithuania. They say they've learned how to count money, they read pennies. And they pointed out that fur farms are necessary for them to compete on the Baltic chicken market as an example. They also read the notes that would otherwise be used for the disposal of animal waste, in our sense, the Small Maarja oven. And on the other hand, they say they prefer to get a couple of kopikas or a few cents of the profit from going to bear farms. Is this aspect important to us, too, or is it so marginal that it does not need to be taken into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U263	Yes, of course, it does not matter whether fur animals are kept in Lithuania, Estonia, Finland, Poland, Denmark or somewhere else. This circle is the same. But right now, in this constant nervous situation, where you have to be afraid of whether or not to be banned again, this circle is humiliated. And now that there are no animals, I mean bigger farms, especially Karjaküla's, there is no one to take either to Väike-Maarja or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U264	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U265	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Yesterday we arrived at the same place as the debate at first reading: whether production is now moving to Bangladesh and whether the animals are better there. Then why make such decisions? Food production is still going on. Do you see the difference between whether animals are grown to produce food or, for example, medicines or to make hats and collars that are not really vital animal production in our world? It is a value-based decision on how much and how we stand up for the welfare and lives of animals. Don't you see it that way? Do you value this aspect of production?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U266	Thank you. How do I see it? I don't have fur hats and coats. There never was and there is no reason [to buy them]. But, good questioner, maybe you'd like to address your good colleague and partymate Katri Raig. He's the mayor of Narva, a respected man. I remember that memorable meeting at Toompea where Indrek Tarand was bravuring. Then Katri Raik, who was to take an oath in an hour's time in this very hall, demanded access to the bleacher and had a gorgeous fur coat on. He was ten centimeters away from me. I admired and looked. A person appreciates a coat, a dignified woman appreciates a dignified coat. So, good questioner, ask Katri what she thinks.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U267	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U268	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! It seems to me that the concern of these banners for animal welfare is not very sincere, because this rearing does not disappear, but it is precisely Russia, China and those countries where the welfare of these animals is not at all concerned. Things are getting worse. In addition, almost all the waste from the Estonian fish and meat industry went to fur farms in the past, and now they must be disposed of. It costs, it pollutes. Art fur has been offered to the site, but it also actually requires the use of oil products and it pollutes nature tens of times more, it does not rot. How does all this contribute to a green turn that is a very popular word today? And what value-based decision can we talk about here at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U269	Thank you for your question. Of course, everyone understands, or I think that most people understand, that it is double standards or false deception, maybe there is another expression. It is the same as when we were asked to come to the Committee on the Environment to remember whether it was in previous stages to introduce the new Neste fuel, which is particularly ecological. And they asked, or even demanded, that we go to Finland to see how it was done. But when I started to ask, what about palm oil produced in Indonesia and other tropical countries at the cost of cutting down the jungle, resulting in the destruction of many species that have not even been described yet and of everything else resulting from it, it was a topic that they did not want to talk about. Similarly, we are now wiping out fur farms from our yard, or Estonia, then reporting to somebody and we are satisfied with ourselves. But the animals that have been bred for the purpose of getting fur will not disappear. Like a pig, domestic, bred, I'm not gonna tell you why. Anyone who eats meat knows what cattle, horses, sheep are all about. These are domestic animals, domesticated animals. And if you think they're gonna disappear now, they won't. They're moving somewhere else. We're happy here, but it's fake.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U270	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U271	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I am not in favour of such bans either. We come from one of those societies that forbid hairstyles, music. And now maybe we'll forbid the work of saddlemakers and cumins and leather builders. To some extent, this indirectly affects them. But if the problem is extremely acute, was it not discussed in the Commission that we could perhaps put the matter under a memorandum for 70 years, for example? That we're not promoting this industry right now, but we're not banning it. Maybe our grandchildren can make sense of it. There was already a list of these prohibitions in the previous composition, and this list is beginning to improve, I know that. Those with bans have their eyes on fire, and they keep banning them. Was a possible memorandum discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U272	No, it wasn't discussed. However, ladies and gentlemen, we have stakeholders who have paid employees as much as they do now in fur farms, this is important, and there are very interesting programmes in their documents. One that I really like and maybe another person in this hall is a program called "Cute Fish." "Cute fish"! And what we're talking about is that scientists have recently discovered that many vertebrates and even invertebrates feel pain. Fish also feel pain. 100,000 fishermen, recreational fishermen and a few thousand professional fishermen, beware! I don't know if that's the next thing, because the fish feels the pain. Carrots don't feel pain. Though, why not, maybe the carrot feels the pain. Carrot's probably gonna get away, but fishermen, hunters, I'm not gonna talk about other livestock farmers, it's a matter of time. This is the first step against a very weak manufacturer on the ground, beating him to show his false tolerance. It's not pretty.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U273	Mr. Randpere, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U274	[[Remote connection]] Yeah. Or rather such a procedural remark. Tarmo Kruusimäe suggested that a bear farm be put under a memorandum. I think he meant the word "moratorium." So a little fix just in case. Otherwise, future generations will count and think we've gone crazy.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U275	Yeah, both M's.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U276	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U277	Thank you. Good Peter! Yesterday, you were in a better shape to describe the committee's discussions, now you've let your partymates drift away with the subject into all kinds of conspiracy theories, the perceptions that can happen if this decision is taken. But my question is about what you have been discussing here. I think you put it this way, either it's better for Bangladesh or it's better for the Estonian prison. As we know, global corporations have always used it to do social dumping: that if you tighten up the welfare rules here, we will move away with these jobs somewhere else. But then, according to the same logic, we could say that child labour is used in Bangladesh and we could also legitimise the use of child labour in Estonia. It doesn't matter if they are or those kids. In reality, this type of argument is not a criminal. These changes really take place country by country, we can decide the things that are within our competence. But that's not the argument that it's bad somewhere else.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U278	Yeah, who's in what shape... Just like the question, so is the answer. If you had asked me something else, I should have answered the questioner. But it's pure demagoguery, which you do well. So respect! The world is global, it's all moving. There's no need to start talking about the same thing again. We can make one continent climate neutral, but there are a little more continents on earth and there is no way to build any walls between them. And so do industries. It's pure demagoguery that we're going to use child labour here. We're talking about domesticated animals bred to get fur. Some can eat, but mostly they're for fur. And these domesticated animals are moving somewhere where they can be raised because of their breeding. And these others are places where the conditions for keeping them are not as good as today in the European Union, including Estonia. That's the answer. When it comes to child labour or slaves, come out with some drafts to start using child labour in Estonia. Let's see!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U279	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U280	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! You did indeed start with hope yesterday and even echoed the Commission's debate. Today you have talked about fish, Neste fuel and Estonian prisons, but you have not answered Erki Savisaare's question about supplementing the draft explanatory memorandum and have not reflected these improvements in the explanatory memorandum on grants. And you also reflected the Chancellor of Justice's position very unilaterally. I hope that you still want to be a Commission waitress and do this work in substance and do not allow yourself to be distracted. But I'm asking you as a professional. You said that Estonia has very good conditions. Do you think the conditions for foxes to have 0.8 square meters of surface in a wire grill cage are good for them?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U281	Thank you for the question and for their comments. As far as the letter of the Chancellor of Justice is concerned, if I remember correctly and the verbatim report shows that behind my back there was a reminder that there was little time, and I could only read a few sentences about it. But this question... What was the question? Oh, that's 0.8 square meters. Yeah, everything's relative. Is two hairs a lot? It's probably not enough in the head, but there's a lot in the soup. Of course, the larger the territory where one or the other living being, now specifically a silver fox or mink, can live, the better. But it's not endless either. The zoo biologists classics have repeatedly written that ordinary people's idea that the zoo is a place of torture, because there are cages so small, there is... I'm not going to talk about this any further. The basic needs of animals vary. There must be hundreds of square miles in order for the wolf pack to live. But it's only so they can catch prey. But when they get rocked, the need disappears, you don't need this much territory. The same applies to minks, silver foxes and others. This standard that we currently have is the best standard that exists. And there are no standards in China, there are no standards in Bangladesh, there are no third world countries. You don't look at them at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U282	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U283	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, The answer to my previous question really surprised me. If you have not realized that the Riigikogu cannot undo the fur coats produced in the past with any drafts, then I really do not understand what you are doing on the remote. After all, the focus is on the future welfare of animals, on what we can change, not on what we cannot change. All this comparison with Bangladesh or the developing country is complete stupidity. Just because we can keep animals in better conditions than in Bangladesh does not mean that we should cover every square metre of free space with these fine animals, or silver foxes and mints. Rather, we must work to ensure that in Bangladesh they also live in conditions worthy of animals. But it is clear from your answers that if a proper escape-proof camp for animals can be guaranteed, breeding and rearing for these furs is justified. Is that right? Do good conditions seem to justify rearing animals for fur?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U284	Thank you. I was hoping you'd talk to the mayor of Narva for a while. But it is also a sign that if 2017 or it was 2016 came here to Toompea for the first time with such initiatives, then the esteemed Katri Raik was much later bold despite the general contempt and also the contempt of your party for raising fur animals and using their skins to come to Toompea in a furry hour before taking his oaths as Minister of the Interior. I liked that person being selfish, brave, and declaring what he liked. But it doesn't matter now when these animals were killed and where he bought that fur. Barbi Pilvre has been selling her chinchick for a long time. So it's not a subject. But when it comes to the surface where these animals live, look, every animal keeper is trying to get the maximum. There's no point in starving a cow, then he just doesn't get milk. There is no point in starving a pig or keeping him in very tight conditions, where they start fighting, tearing off their tails and not getting more, because a nervous atmosphere is not the best way to gain more quickly. And so is the rearing of fur animals. It is in their own economic interest that the animal's skin should be as good as possible, not scabs, not of poor quality, so that the density of hair in one square centimeter is small, these are the essential elements that are taken into account in the auctions. And to that end, the animals must be provided with maximum good species-specific conditions. Everything, of course, has a limit, can always be increased and so on, but these are optimal conditions to get the highest quality of the product.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U285	Does Riina Sikkut have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U286	Thank you. Procedural remark. I'm so sorry I disappointed the waitress and didn't talk to the mayor of Narva in the meantime. But just to inform other colleagues that, of course, we have been talking about this. We have also spoken to the organisations that defend animal rights, and we know their views...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U287	Good Riina, that's not a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U288	... the coats, but the waitress probably doesn't know about it. He could do the homework. Power!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U289	Ladies and gentlemen, the procedural question is still a question. If you have a request for a reply, it is possible to speak during the negotiations. We are at second reading, all members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to come to the remote and talk to whom they have spoken, with whom they have not spoken, what they think and what they do not think. Please observe the Rules of Procedure. The procedural question assumes that we are asking a question about the procedure for conducting the sitting. Thank you! Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U290	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I have two questions for you. First of all, are you familiar with the demands of the sister organisations of animal protection organisations elsewhere in Europe? Are our guys still moving somewhere in the back? What demands and new conditions elsewhere are already being sought out in this Invisible Animals and other organizations? And the second question I have is this. You are a specialist and you have probably noticed how many of these conditions have been changed throughout the years. Isn't it just that we've been turning on conditions all along, making demands tougher, tougher, tougher, and the situation is supposed to be getting worse all the time? Maybe it wouldn't have been necessary to poke, then it would have been exactly as it may have been in 1992. Everyone would have been happy. But we ourselves have probed these conditions into such a...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U291	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U292	...that now the situation is unbearable.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U293	Thank you. After all, all of this has taken place under such general and global pressure. Yes, there are a number of organisations such as Invisible Animals, whether they are mother organizations or sisterhoods or whatever. And their goal is to conquer territories. One country after another, a close bond between us, how we managed to put the flags on the map again, the territory occupied, the money will continue. I can't talk about it now. I've been talking about it in detail before. However, as far as the conditions are concerned, indeed, I have had much more contact with these companies than in the process of dealing with these drafts. They have invited me to visit, I have looked at the situation, and it is precisely at times when these conditions have been tightened by the Estonian authorities, especially the Ministry of Rural Affairs. It's rebuilt, it's spent a lot of money. Go see Karjavella, it's the closest, it doesn't have to go to Raplamaa or anywhere else. There are huge investments made. And now it rusts, the wind howls there. It has been a question of whether this should be compensated for if they are coming out with this claim, I know they will. But it's too bad for them. Companies have made huge expenses to modernise production in accordance with the requirements, but the result is still one.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U294	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U295	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! On your better days in the Commission, you are a very meaningful and substantial co-worker, but today I am forced to take care of one more thing concerning the Commission's debate. We also had a zoo director at a meeting in the village, who was very disturbed by the fact that the zoo and the bear farm were put into one. You made the same mistake today. The zoo also carries out a lot of research and educational work. In farms, however, fur animals are kept under abnormal conditions only to obtain fur. And not only are they kept, these animals are also executed for this purpose. I also point out that, according to the Chancellor of Justice, the Riigikogu has the right to shape and try to change the standards of behaviour of society. But my question is about substantive work in the Commission. I was under the impression that if chinchillas were allowed to be raised for meat, you would support this bill, because you still do not consider the conditions that apply to mink and foxes to be appropriate for your speciality.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U296	Thank you. There were a lot of questions. Maybe everyone doesn't know that I've also worked at the zoo and studied the behaviour of animals in cage conditions. I've also published research papers. So I know this world pretty well. Really, Tiit Maran was on the committee, but I also know what happened earlier. I happen to be a member of the teriologists' society, a member of the mammalian research community, and I remember very well how one of the interest groups tried to get signatures from mammalian researchers on the draft ban on fur animals farms. And as a result of certain manipulations, some people did. But a lot of it was clear: "No, we don't do that kind of shit. " This is the background that we do not have time to talk about right now. But now, coming to the chinchillas, how was it, that, if mostly for meat, they could be kept. I did not get to present a document yesterday that discussed the problem, which is also in the explanatory memorandum: the keywords are "only" and "mainly." For example, there has been a discussion on how to deal with the problem in the case of meat cattle. In the case of beef cattle, one part of the production goes to meat, as the name says, the other part is that it gets skin, and the third part is that it can make glue. Is the right word "mainly" when meat is only part of production, but skin and bones are two parts, so two-thirds is not meat? Well, it's a scholastic debate. This document also exists on three pages. In my opinion, raising chinchillas should be removed from this bill. Their basic product, which gives a living to people who could and will do it, is precisely the skin, not the flesh. It is a small animal and there is no tradition of eating this meat in our region, in Estonia and elsewhere in Europe, although it is quite normal, tasty meat. So this construction isn't quite adequate. Chinchillas could take them out of this company in the first place to stop them from growing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U297	No more questions for you. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U298	Let's go to the negotiations. First up is Merry Aart. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U299	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much for the floor. Am I hearing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U300	You've heard it. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U301	Very good! May I have three more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U302	Yes, you can. Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U303	Ladies and gentlemen, The year 1925 is considered to be the beginning of bear breeding when the breeding of silver foxes began on the Black River. Now the time is so far away that we are going to be ringing a bell in one of the rural industries. Farming fur was one of the ways to diversify rural entrepreneurship. It gave someone income and opportunity to survive in rural areas, mostly without state support. Bearstocking in today's Estonia has indeed quite shrunk. If there were 170000 animals in 2014, then by now, by 2020, there are 2,5002600 animals. If it is a form of declining business, why must we ban it? Let him go where he's going anyway. The original text of the draft proposal explains that the 2015 EuroParliament's scientific report is taken into account, according to which banning fur farms is the only solution to prevent animal welfare violations in the fur industry. According to the report, there are fur farms where the needs of wild animals cannot be met. Also, the best animal welfare tests cannot raise animal welfare to what most people consider sufficient. There are some thoughts and questions in this regard. Are fur animals really wild? An animal bred as a cage animal over a hundred years cannot be compared to a wild animal. That's what scientists, breeding scientists, and livestock scientists say. The caged animal depends on man, and the person is responsible for him. We're not allowed to keep animals caught in the forest cage. If you look at animal housing from an animal's point of view, does it matter why a person keeps animals? Whether it's the purpose of milk, meat, skin, sport, fun or other, such as having a pet. Man wants his pet to live in human conditions. It's important to the human being. In order for everything to be good, cats and dogs are bred to be suitable for people's favorites. Whether these animals are hairless or hairless, whether they are put on clothing or not. Often, the goal is to show off in front of others. Is it ethical and takes into account the animal's specific conditions? Man satisfies his own needs, not the needs of an animal. But it is important under what conditions, the way in which man keeps animals and whether the needs of animals are satisfied. These include high-quality food, accommodation, security, veterinary care. European fur farms have a research-based programme for the well-being of cage animals in WelFur, which takes into account almost 20 different aspects. Estonian regulations are as strict as in the European Union, and they are controlled not only by local officials, but also by European Union officials. You can't even auction leather without meeting the requirements. According to Emor's survey commissioned by fur producers, 58.4% of those surveyed in Estonia were in favour of the continuation of fur breeding, according to a survey conducted by Turku Research AS, 69% wanted to continue farming if animal welfare requirements were respected. About two weeks later, a survey of the same company resulted in 75% being closed down because it was not intended to keep wild animals in cages. What kind of study to believe depends on what is asked and how it is asked. But should such surveys serve as a basis for political decision-making? We're looking for alternative activities for Ida-Virumaa. Bear breeding would be good for Ida-Virumaa, there's plenty of free land. We and the Nordic countries have a more suitable climate for fur animals than in the southern countries. It is claimed that fur fashion openings have a vanishing phenomenon, talking about fur-free fashion shows. But, for example, London fashion week organisers have confirmed that this is not the case, except for summer collections. Several designers have declared themselves fur-free. Is this not because of marketing considerations? Fur is very nature-friendly: you wear almost your whole life, composting completely. Yeah, it's true that you don't buy brandy again every year. Fur animals mainly feed on residues that are unfit for human consumption in the food industry. For example, there are problems with the disposal of residues from chicken and egg production if there are no fur animals. In any other case, we are talking about the circular economy, not the fur animals. Are we really going to burn the remains of the food industry? A little activity. Animal justice is an extreme ideology that places an animal on the same level as a human being, or even higher. Animal justice is a mixture of letters and a strange mixture of very profitable cash flows, for example, funds, donors, legacies and theatrical noises near fashion shows, in front of slaughterhouses, etc. You can look at animal protection websites, such as PETA in Europe, Nature and Invisible Animals in Estonia. This is not my definition of animal justice. NGO Nature and Invisible Animals have just as much wage labour as bear livestock farmers. If we compare the wages of animal conservationists and livestock farmers, the farmers will be left behind. Reports are available in the RIK. Why, then, do we need to ban fur animals? Banning is beneficial for China, for example. There are the world's main fur markets. China's wholesale buyers are buying up European fur, and now the main herd. We will ban it, but let's not talk any more about banning for animal welfare. In third countries, animal welfare will certainly remain under Europe's control. None of the fur animals will go unstoppable, even though we are banning it. If there's demand, there's an offer. Why, then, do we have to protect? Perhaps the answer is on the websites of the protectors, which state the winnings: banning the export of meat animals to third countries and suspending the transport of such animals, rather than political and economic conditions, cutting the tails of pigs, stopping the sale of eggs from caged hens, closing up fur animals farms. I'm asking, too, and then what? Cleaning up the emotional world of fish, banning cattle for milk production? What else? The transition to veganism? He who claims that the plant is not a living thing and that the plant does not have a soul life does not really know anything about nature. Talk to your house flowers, and you'll see how they react. According to the draft law, bear rearing has been banned since 1 January 2026, so some livestock farmers may even have 100 years of luck to see bear rearing in Estonia. To whom it will finally be useful, time will tell. The Riigikogu must carefully consider the arguments and find a reasonable balance between the various interests, said the Chancellor of Justice. Let's do it. Finally, I am not against the protection of animals. If it is necessary, we must do so, but we are guided by the animal's particular conditions, and let us do so rationally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U304	Next, the chair is welcome to Heljo Pikhof.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U305	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Today's debate on the treatment of animals on fur farms is very good because we can pay attention to the weaker who need our protection. This is a good sign that as a society we have reached a point where we can also pay attention to the issue of animal welfare, which matters to more and more people in Estonia. And when we look at public opinion surveys, the latest studies carried out by Kantar Emor in March this year indicate that 75% of Estonian residents think that fur farms should not be allowed in Estonia. And we can say that according to research, this support has grown every year and that animal welfare has become a significant asset for us. Support for the draft we are discussing today is strong for different age groups as well as for urban and rural populations. I believe we're all animal friends in this hall with a cat at home with a dog, and we don't want to watch the cruel treatment of animals on fur farms in silence. We don't like that, or at least most of us don't. Today's debate, as well as this bill 219, is a good way to show these values. With this bill, we can end up as ambassadors at law level in one way of treating animals cruelly. If we look today at where fur farms are banned, they are banned in France, Great Britain, Austria, Norway, the Netherlands, Croatia, Slovenia, Macedonia, Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Slovakia, Luxembourg, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Ireland, Sweden and Denmark. I think it is the right time to join in this long line of countries that value the protection of the weaker and the good treatment of animals. These foxes, minks and chinchillas, who have been on Estonian fur farms at peak times several hundred thousand, deserve us to intervene and say that this treatment of animals is not acceptable because it causes suffering to these animals. We can do well as humans without the production of fur farms. Times have changed and it is understandable that the people of Estonia expect us to resolve animal treatment issues also at the legislative level. While there was one concern in previous discussions about the large number of workers employed by fur farms, today the fur industry has basically dried up, which is no longer a considerable employer. Those who still work on the fourth farm definitely deserve the support of the state. I am pleased that the Ministry of Rural Affairs has also discussed these grants in order to facilitate the transition to other areas of activity with more potential and future than for fur breeding. I call for the draft to be supported in order to end the cruel treatment of animals on fur farms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U306	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U307	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good people on this side of the screen and in the corners of the country, wherever you are! You know, American writer Ambrose Bierce has once said that politics is about resolving a conflict of interest that is disguised as a principle competition. And what has happened yesterday and today in this Chamber is an obvious example of this. Yeah, you could say a positive example. Speaking of myself, I came to this hall yesterday, yes, to the virtual hall where I am now, but I came here with the certainty that this bill deserves to be supported. But there have been different nuances in the debate that has taken place here, since the ban on chinchilla farms has to be tackled for fur, but it is also acceptable if they are grown to eat meat. All of this involves disproportionate restrictions on entrepreneurship, meaningless restrictions. Eleven people take the job away. When I asked Jevgeni Ossinovski, but what happens to these animals when this law comes into force, Evgeni told me they were going to the herd of the creator. That expression may have been even a little more harsh. What about Peter's claim that the carrot doesn't know? Today we think the carrot doesn't feel it, but tomorrow we can find the carrot feels the pain. There is no support for this hypocritical law, one of the consequences of which is the restriction of the freedom to conduct a business and the cessation of the work of some tens of people. A further objective is likely to be to achieve concrete policy results. There's gonna be a war against humanity to eradicate omnivorism, to make people vegetarians and insect eaters, after all, insects are being advertised quite powerfully. All of this can be lifted up through deep false tolerance, left-wing populism and social protest traditions. Is it perhaps the hope of destroying a traditional animal and poultry farm that is ancient to mankind in Europe as a whole? After all, this is clearly self-deception. Well, one cannot support a bill which, by its very nature, is once again one of the desires of revolutionary development, instead of dealing with matters sensibly, evolutionaryly. I came to this hall with one thought: I have grown up today, as Ambrose Bierce said. And I say that it is unwise to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U308	Peter Ernits, please, your turn!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U309	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Now I can talk a little bit more freely. First of all, I'm gonna make sure Erki's looking this way, I didn't get too much to answer you yesterday. In the previous composition, when we voted on whether this bill would be sent to the hall, I reviewed the protocol: you, Igor Kravchenko and our representatives Siim Pohlak and I were in favour of this bill going into the trash can. Now the situation and the lines of force have changed. The coalition is not the same. But I hope intelligence is still in its old bed, where it was, it hasn't moved anywhere else. Tell me what? It's really killing a fly with a cannon right now, banging, killing a form of business. My colleague Pikhof here told me how torture works. Well, then the heads of the Chamber of Agriculture should be invited here. They are the characters responsible for the torture of this great empire, domestic animals. All these hundreds of thousands of pigs, cows and chickens... Well, there's no going now, and we're fighting a non-existent enemy, talking about torturing mints. Yeah, 11 jobs, as many as those hired to fight behind our 23 good colleagues. I hate to break it to you, but unfortunately you're like puppets in the hands of social organisations trying to spread this hysteria and put flags on a map of the territory that has been conquered in their headquarters and other offices. It is particularly embarrassing that several ministers, including the current Minister of Finance, are behind all of this, even today, in the role of Prime Minister Keit Pentus-Rosimannus. He was also one of the initiators. How can this be understood if the Minister of Finance steps up by prohibiting one form of enterprise? It's very hard to understand. He's talking about how to scrape up money at the cost of losing the Defence Forces Orchestra. Or the Minister of Social Protection, who was also behind this bill when he was still a member of the Riigikogu. One million out of six million in the Korona supplementary budget goes to a school called Kaagvere type to send ten violent brats. A million out of six million! But it's a side-by-side issue. Ethics. What kind of ethics are we talking about here? I'm quoting an activist. Martin Garbuz has said: "The argument about moving the sector is incomprehensible because it is an ethical problem and nothing changes when animals are tortured in another country. The problem is being addressed and, hopefully, the ban on fur farming will reach all countries. " Well, the painting says a bullet to the head. In a transferred sense. I repeat: these are domesticated animals. Academic Beljayev, remember this name! was behind the making of a silver fox pet. And Karjaküla's farm was one of the ones where it was dealt with in its time. He's one of the brightest stars of Russian genetics, an academic. When colleagues here say that this is some kind of free animal, that it is not a domestic animal, it shows that these people do not know what they are talking about. So, here we are dealing with double standards and a false false falsehood, I repeat again. And I repeat, this is only the first step. Indeed, the programme "Cute Fish," the good fishermen...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U310	Would you like more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U311	Yeah, just a few more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U312	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U313	A hundred thousand recreational fishers, aquarians, fish farmers, professionals, it's just one company. The fish also feels pain, the hook is very painful, and when pulled out of the water, it is very, very painful. Hunters, be careful! It is not known when it will come to that. Because what you do is also criminal. Yeah, well, they sent me polite threatening letters this time too, so if I don't do what's right, they're gonna put my picture on their special page to embarrass me. Put it on! I'm not subject to that kind of threat. I hope my colleagues don't chicken out either. At the same time, I would like to remind you that, among the very respected people, and their party membership may be the same as those who are, above all, behind this bill, above all, the draft of the Socialists and Reform Partymen, there are intelligent people. Uno Loop was a passionate chinchilla farmer. A criminal? Or Katrin Karisma, a respected member of the Reform Party. Only recently did he declare that he was proud to wear fur coats, and even during the Korona, he went to study kitchen work. So ask Katrin if he doesn't understand. And so on. So it is not so black and white that the salmon runs along party boundaries. There's plenty of mind to think about everywhere and with your head. Killing some form of entrepreneurship, though one that is currently in a very poor state, is not beautiful. It's not nice to beat a lamaja. But one thing's good about it. The transitional period is until 2026. I'm sure the power will change first and the intelligent powers will come to power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U314	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U315	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, It is very nice that so much passion and debate is caused by the issue of banning fur farms. However, it is a pity that we are always entangled in some of the same arguments, which do not actually have much argument value, and in traps that are completely illogical when we look closer. First of all, I mention this very disturbing thing in the rhetoric, how in the case of animals the waitress described the escape-proof camps in which they live and their living conditions in that sense, but at the same time we are talking about rearing fur animals. In the case of the sector, we are talking about killing the sector. I'm not sure if the sector can be killed, but animals can. But aside from rhetoric, let us be honest, the economic impact of the draft we are discussing here today is non-existent. And a very long transitional period has been granted for the few companies and workers active in the sector, and the compensation mechanism has also been discussed several times in the Committee on the Environment. This is actually a reasonable way to make decisions. It's not a restriction because of a siege or harm to anyone. There is a very clear transition period, unlike very many other decisions that we have made in haste in this Chamber. Now much has been said about the argument whether it makes sense for Estonia to deal with such a thing. After all, these fur animals are being cultivated somewhere, we take part in the load, and we keep them under better conditions than others. The only way in which Estonia can influence fur farming in the world is to set an example by banning fur breeding. No matter how many farms we have here, whether we set up five or ten more farms next to one of the largest and perhaps a few little ones, what is happening in China and Bangladesh, we do not affect, their load is not reduced, these animals do not live in any better conditions. On the other hand, however, we can resist the inhumane conditions of these animals and rather give a value-based message that it is not necessary to keep animals in camps and feed them from food waste, for such luxuries, for things that are not vital to life. Last but not least, when it comes to a sensible solution, it is not possible that the continuation of animal bear farming in Estonia would somehow improve the situation of animals in the world. Thirdly, I am very disturbed by this review of individual choices from the remote, whether it is Uno Loop, Katrin Karisma or Katri Raik. None of them are criminals, none of them are hypocritical or fake. The choices that people have made in their careers, as can all Estonian cumins, cannot be blamed in any way for having indirectly supported the holding of fur farms in the past. This decision is now made by the Riigikogu; it is only the responsibility of the Riigikogu. What has been the choices of the past for people, we do not have the right to judge, and it does not really affect the decision that we are making today. In this draft, all members of the Riigikogu can also express their support for those who wear fur, including those who have studied as a cumin or made some choices in the past that may not be accepted by Peeter Ernits. But whether or not fur animals will be bred in Estonia in the future will be held in camps, that is what we can decide here. So please, ladies and gentlemen, support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U316	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U317	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good vice chairman. Indeed, the subject of fur animals has for some time been a matter of seeking such a value sheet or bubble in society. It is based on an innovative way of thinking and on scientific analysis of what is happening in a wide world. But the truth is that, as a member of the Riigikogu, I am concerned about this aspect, above all, that if we change society, then we cannot do it at the expense of anyone, we cannot do it at the expense of one of the business sectors, saying that you pay it all for yourself. The second aspect concerns double morals. I understand it's gonna take some time to set up this value bubble. It is natural, but some time ago, we discussed a draft in Parliament on the national register of pets. We have, unfortunately, encountered a conflict on this surface, whether it is really necessary, and these animals are somewhere in the register. But this is one detail of the whole, which actually contains a very large problem of pets, which is legally placed on the responsibility of the local government. And it also includes places where pets should not reach, that is, shelters which, according to the law, must be maintained by local authorities on the basis of the provisions that are legalised. Our children go there to take care of these pets and take a walk with them. I have been to the Pärnu shelter and I have visited Karjaküla, and when I compare Karjaküla bear farm and Pärnu pet shelter, I say that this shelter is much more hopeless and worse than the Karjaküla farm, one of which is in the hands of the private sector and the other in the hands of the public sector. And if we try to improve the conditions of the animals and their workers in the shelter, we will get to the point that the amount offered in the procurement is still too expensive, EUR 100000 will be more expensive than we have planned. And we're saying we're not doing this now because it's too expensive, too expensive. Look, ladies and gentlemen, this is where I think it's double morale. I think we are raising our children and young people through the pet system and shelters, perhaps by closing down more than one fur farm. Indeed, the issue of pets has also come to court. Animal abuse is a problem that needs to be resolved, but it needs to be resolved as a whole. You see, these animals are not raised for skin or meat; these animals are taken for fun purposes, we exclude work dogs and hounds, as pets. But the main problem... I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U318	Yes, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U319	The main problem, apart from ethics and morality or double standards, is that if we go to society to ban something, if we go to reform society, we must not do so at the expense of one target group. We know for a long time those cases where property is restricted to environmental protection. I believe that if you put up a survey in Estonia, do an Emori survey, and ask if the environment needs to be protected, the Estonian tells him that it is, of course, because it is what we leave to our children. If you ask whether fur animals should be raised for skin purposes, the answer will be something that is not really necessary for life. And you can really say it's like fun. But if we go into the substance of the matter and not just stop at the glamour or the outside of it, let's be honest, if we take the land into conservation, the owner doesn't have much of a chance. I think his ethics doesn't allow him to go from tree to tear down an eagle's nest or to cut down that tree, and it's not allowed in justice. But if the owner wants to dispose of this plot of land, the state says that I will buy it at that price and I don't care that, for certain reasons, some factors have affected price formation. If you want to, sell it. And if you don't want to, keep it. And now we are actually taking the next step in one particular area and we are perpetuating this ambition to ban the organisation of one type of enterprise, its cultivation on Estonian soil and say that these costs, sorry, will be borne by you. You're a natural person, you're a legal person, you try to make it work. And, well, this model of coping is five years or more. And I think that this is now the principle that cannot be accepted. We can accept ethics and morality, that is different for people, and this joint part is not, I think, by party lines, but by individuals. But we cannot accept that we are making changes at the expense of someone's narrow target group. And that, in my opinion, was one of the main points of discussion in the final part of the debate in the Commission. Unfortunately, we have come together to the point that, indeed, this compensation in the form of subsidies cannot be a major one. Still, if we ban something and the next day after that ban, the entrepreneur says that he is using his constitutional freedom to stop such an enterprise, then we must commit ourselves to paying it off. Yes, an undertaking is not obliged to maintain a fur farm for another five years at all costs if it knows that there is really no prospect in this area. But if we leave all the ends open and say again let this citizen or legal person go to court. Against who? Against the Estonian state. It is not fair, it is not fair, and I think that this is not an appropriate behaviour for the Estonian state. Also internationally, all other countries have found that their people are worth it, that if we ban something, we will also have a compensation mechanism. Thanks to everyone for thinking along, and I hope that this bill will become significantly better.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U320	Erki Savisaar, please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U321	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! This bill is bad, both in substance and form. First of all, the contents. It is clear that there is actually no substantive problem with fur farmers in Estonia. The decision is symbolic and the signs have come from Europe. If we look at what has happened in countries that have reached similar decisions, then the next step is to ban chicken, pig and sheep farming. Very dangerous tendency! And what to deny there was also the request of the animalguards who participated in the committee meeting. Good ambassadors! Should this draft become a law, there will certainly be new disputes about the possibility of keeping the next species of animals and birds. Coming to the bill now, the definition of fur has been used in Estonian legislation a few times, but this definition has not been given. But you can imagine what they're talking about. Secondly, it uses two words with slightly different meanings: 'only' and'mainly'. I quote the text of the bill: it is forbidden to keep animals solely or mainly for the purpose of producing fur. The terms "only" and "mainly" used in the draft act are words of a common language which have no specific meaning given. They must therefore be interpreted by means of the meaning used in the common language. "One" means singularity, only one purpose. If the sole purpose of animal production development and reproduction is to produce fur, this activity would be prohibited under the draft. If the draft were to stop there, everything would be relatively clear. The meaning field of the word "mainly" is somewhat vague, but it is commonly understood as "more than half": more than half of cases, more than half of a quantity and so on. Consequently, in the case of the rearing and breeding of fur animals, some borderline cases may be constructed, where the answer to the question, which is the main purpose of the rearing, is not obvious. It is clear from the explanatory memorandum that the authors of the draft have wanted to exclude rabbits and sheep, for example, from the scope of the provision on keeping rabbits and sheep. For these two species, it is probably the hardest to estimate, which is the main purpose of their rearing, either meat or skin and wool. There is, in fact, an additional problem in providing this explanation. Bear rearing has been given a much broader meaning than we normally understand. Thus, in the context of this law, fur production must not only be interpreted in the cage-keeping sector, but also extends to livestock. Very slippery tea! We can also imagine a situation where someone has domesticated a fox cub and it basically lives as a pet. If, at the end of the animal's days, a person decides that he should still be able to collar the skin, the primary goal should probably be to keep a pet rather than to raise a fur animal. But if 20 foxes are found in someone's home, how do we interpret it? After all, there are many examples where, for example, 20 cats or dogs are kept in homes, why not also foxes as pets. As a result, the entry into force of this law may lead to litigation, starting with the fact that fox growers may need to analyse their goals and the size of the herd in a little more depth. However, nutria and chinchilla growers may be carefree under this draft because the meat of these animals is edible and by their nature they are treated in the same way as the domestic rabbit that the initiators of the draft wish to exclude. I really hope this bill doesn't become a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U322	Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U323	Thank you, Mr President. Good ambassadors! Unfortunately, I cannot agree with a good colleague, Erk. I assure you, this bill is very good. Fur has lost its status and the role of the symbol in society. Alternative materials are more favourable, more environmentally friendly, more durable, better suited to our climate. Due to reduced demand, businesses will be shut down even in those countries that have historically been market leaders in this area. Many of these countries prohibit the keeping of fur farms. The action of the fur industry has a significant negative impact on the environment. This has a negative impact on our forests and river basins. In addition to the direct negative environmental impact, fur production also has indirect consequences for the environment due to the high energy consumption of fur production. The closure of fur farms shows that climate issues and animal welfare are important for Estonia. I suggest everyone watch videos of how animals live in the cages of fur farms. Often these are predators who live in a very large territory in nature, but on a farm they are trapped in a small cage where they cannot move properly, injure themselves, and suffer for years. We will stop torturing both these animals and their keepers and decide that fur farms have no place in Estonia. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U324	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U325	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I do not consider it reasonable to submit this draft, as I said yesterday, and I hope that it will not become a law. Of course, I consider it reasonable and necessary that animals, whether they come from the forest or from home, should be treated in a very reasonable manner. But now we have decided, or rather, the initiators of the draft have decided that some types of enterprise are better in Estonia than others. We are not talking here about what the criteria should be or what the scope of this enterprise should fit into, but we are simply saying: it is forbidden. And if we say it's forbidden, then we're not talking about compensation, we're talking about some kind of misunderstanding about some sort of mechanism for compensating for their damage somewhere. People should go to the Rural Promotion Foundation or some other place, maybe there are some measures somewhere to reorganize or rethink their activities. These people have perhaps been engaged in this area for 10 to 20 years, which is not at all large. As Mr Ernits said yesterday, we are talking about 11 people who are busy there. They're small farms. We know that the situation and the environment have changed, the criteria and conditions are constantly becoming increasingly demanding. In this sense, I do not see that this prohibition is reasonable. We are simply banning one area, but in the context of this ban we do not want to foresee any compensation mechanism. I think this is a very poor precedent for Parliament if we prohibit anything without offering compensation. I don't think this bill should become a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U326	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U327	Good vice chairman! Good folklore! Once again, we have come to the point that we should ban something. A free society is one where society regulates itself, but sometimes it also leaves things unregulated. To me, the subject is no stranger at all. I was quite young when in Finland the popular fox girls went to farms to fire foxes. But they were such punks. Later, of course, they were a little embarrassed, but at the time, all the embarrassment was flushed down pretty quickly. It was kind of a going thing. Now it's fur versus pet factories. I don't know what it's from, but from shelters and somewhere else, people are selling broken pets. Several acquaintances have taken the animal from the shelter, everything should be a winks-vonks, buy it, and then it goes off: one medicine, another medicine, third four-five. Some of us might laugh, right, maybe he doesn't have a pet at home, but somehow our pets were more resilient in the past. What's going on in these places? But let's say it's such an ethical question, because now we have all these dog-cat competitions. I would invite these associations, the Invisible Animals, and who they are, to think about other problems. In my opinion, there is a major problem in Estonia with bears. Honestly! They say we have 800-900 bears, which means there's probably a few hundred more of them. But there would obviously be about 300 bears in Estonia, perhaps even less. Let me just give you an example. Many know a happy baby bear like Franz, who came from the Czech Republic to Germany, because there is a bear on the beard in Germany and there is a zero free - living bear in Germany. Franz, who crossed the Czech border, was shot. Maybe we could send our bears somewhere? Why am I talking about this? The reason is that sometimes these environmental people want support elsewhere. As president of the Beekeeper Support Group, I am aware of their concerns. Now it is said that an electric shepherd with five wires must be put in place, for a bear is a large animal. And when you have three wires, they say the damage doesn't go to compensation. Another good example is that we have these green ones, right? There's a big problem with these old limes on Kaarli Avenue. Three people a year go to the ER, six or seven cars are damaged and there are other, minor injuries. New limes should be planted, but no one dares to do so because environmental friends, the so-called Greens, are about to say that now it is bad and bad. I've been following what these representative organisations are saying abroad. For example, the milking of cows is not designed for that purpose, so it should be left alone. Well, then the happy ones are sitting on the perch with chickens and their eggs. I think we all remember how Järlepa sold turkeys: everything came from the United States frozen, but there were two live turkeys too. Everyone had the impression that this kind of Estonia's own mild thing. Now we are in a situation where they came and said that we have won a great job: we have eliminated everything, there is another one left. And now I think there might be a goal that we can keep some value. Just as we have a Raeapteek, which could act not only as a museum but also as a pharmacy, because it is the oldest in Europe, we could have one fur farm. I think we've turned on so much, that the situation is unbearable for both growers and animal friends. Maybe we've screwed up. I certainly do not support this bill, because I am opposed to a ban. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U328	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U329	Thank you, Mr President. A little extra time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U330	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U331	Ladies and gentlemen, Since I, too, have a modest role to play in getting so far with this bill, But I guess that was a while ago, and from the speeches that have now been heard, the fact that it is customary that a large number of members of the Riigikogu do not read the drafts that they are going to vote on. But there has been some conceptual confusion about this bill. Even Erki Savisaar's attempt to reduce conceptual confusion here has obviously not affected everyone. We have heard here that bears must be shot, others have spoken of comparison with pet farming. I would like to stress that this bill deals with the industrial management of fur animals. This is not about farm animals or hunting, nor is it about restricting the game population. If you go a little further from here, then it is true that at first reading, Mr Ernitsa and his comrades' line of argument was also mentioned, which, in philosophy, in terms of training, is my specialty called a slippery slope argument. That's the argument that you see, we start with this, but in the end, God knows what ugly thing happens. It is used very often and there are all kinds of variations in this type of argument. It's a demagogue thing, and it's one of the most classic. We have heard here that all right, we can ban these fur farms, but then we all have to become vegans, because the next thing we know is to ban all farm animals. No, that argument doesn't hurt. No, because, point one, there are no references to farm animals in this draft. Point two, those other aspects of animal welfare in other areas, certainly deserve a debate, that is clear and that is something that no one has denied, but that the next decision to follow from this decision is in fact not sociologically or, less logically, in any way true. I would like to emphasise once again that the welfare issues of farm animals, of course, are also important on their own and separately, and they are increasingly the attention of society, the more we move towards postmaterial values in the value area of the development of our society. Another argument, also demagogic, but in another way. I can't tell you the name of it, but the question is, well, look, we're gonna ban it here, and then he's just gonna move to another country and who's gonna get better at it. The answer is two parts. The first is that this is a problem called a problem of common operation in philosophy or logic: common action problem. Mr Ernits referred here to climate neutrality and, of course, we want everyone to do something for it, that is the aim. But if everyone says we're not gonna do anything because we're not sure everyone's gonna do anything, nobody's gonna do anything. And there will be no positive development. But we gotta start somewhere, the others will come for us. In fact, we have seen it both on fur farms and in this same move towards climate neutrality. With its ambitious climate targets, Europe has also succeeded in catching up with other countries. That's the first half of the answer. The other side of this answer: well, let's take the analogy. In Estonia, we may reduce logging, but then more forests will be cut down in Belarus. True, this may happen, but the Estonian forest will remain. I think it is important for the Estonian state and the people that the Estonian forest remains. And I hope that the Belarusian people will also succeed in establishing a policy that takes the interests of the people into account in their political system. Farming fur is not an environmentally friendly undertaking. Mrs Aart again pointed out that fur production is very environmentally friendly. Not environmentally friendly! Once again, we are going through the arguments at first reading: CO2 emissions, or greenhouse gas emissions, are higher in the production of fur than in all alternative forms of fabric production. This is purely because, or mainly because a predator needs to be fed very much before it finally becomes a fur. And he must be fed with animal food. I showed one picture last time: to get a kilogram of some skin, you need 11.4 mints, and to grow 11.4 mints, you need to feed 563 kg of food. That's where these massive CO2 emissions come from. In addition, the chemicals used to process the skin and, of course, the nitrogen and phosphorus pollution that pollutes our land and water. It's all part of it. So, yes, indeed, it would be nice to agree on a large number of environmental aspects globally. That'd be great! But it is not possible to do so; we can make these decisions ourselves. Mr Ernits was trying to turn around here, as if someone wanted to portray today's bear farmers, the people who have worked in this sector, as criminals. Well, there hasn't been one. Indeed it wasn't! People have done their job under current law. No one has given these people an ethical assessment that they are bad people because they have done their job. The simple question is that at one point society can come to an agreement that we no longer want certain sectors of our society, and that there will also be an agreement on how they will be shut down. The argument that this is an industry is an industry. But there are other bad sectors of the economy, such as methamphetamine has a very large market, a global one, but that does not mean that we believe that this should be legalised. We don't think so. We have different considerations, there are certain arguments that make us believe that such an industry should not exist in Estonia. And there's more, not going to list them all. Just as in the case of fur farms, it is possible and reasonable, in my opinion, to make this decision today. I fully agree that it will be dignified during the transition period, which, if you support it, will be extended in accordance with this draft, to find the necessary compensation for the country's dignified implementation of this decision. In any case, I would like to thank all those who have contributed to the fact that this draft has reached second reading. I hope that we, together with you, will soon be able to adopt this historic decision and enforce the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U332	Mr. Ernits, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U333	Yeah, it is because my name was called.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U334	Then this is not a procedural remark, then this is a rejoinder and you have to press the "Word" key. The renegade, Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U335	Mr Ossinovski has repeatedly demagogueled here, but I am not going to respond to this demagogy. Just one detail. Mr Ossinovski said that farm animals are not involved, but somehow they have to be recorded in the register as farm animals when someone deals with fur animals, rabbits as well. So a colleague doesn't know what he's talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U336	Mr. Ossinovski, do you have a rejoinder? You have one rejoinder option.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U337	Thank you. Mr. Ernits, you misunderstood what I meant. I was talking about the fact that the ban on fur farms cannot automatically conclude that then society, the state, I do not know, the Riigikogu, must immediately take the following decisions, whether logical or sociological, as regards the ban on keeping farm animals. I am referring here to the meat or dairy herd referred to in today's debate. The issue was not in the context of this register. You yourself indicated that there would be a next ban on cattle and pigs, and I think you also referred to the emotional life of the fish. These thought flights really don't make any sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U338	Mr Savisaar, your name was mentioned as well. Do you have a request for a rejoinder?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U339	Yeah, thanks! I was mentioned three times in different reports. But I just want to comment on the Evgeni sentence that this bill is only about banning the industrial production of fur animals. That's not true. The text of the bill talks about keeping animals for fur production purposes and it may not be anything industrial.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U340	Thank you for this political debate. I will close the negotiations and go to the examination of the amendments. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment and has taken full account of it. The second amendment, also from the Committee on the Environment, has been fully taken into account. The third amendment, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, has been fully taken into account. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 219. We're done with second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U341	Let us move on to today's second item, the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Isamaa Group. The presentation is made by Aivar Kokk, member of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U342	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft amends the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity with a view to preventing the excise duty increase that will take place in April next year and to mitigating the economic impact on businesses and private consumers. The excise duty on diesel from EUR 493 to EUR 372 per 1000 litres increased the sales of diesel in Estonia and reduced border trade. In addition, it reduced the costs for businesses, which helped them to better adapt to the crisis situation. Eight months after the reduction of excise duty, Estonia sold about 11% more diesel fuel than a year earlier. The transport sector has been talking about the positive effects of reducing the excise duty on diesel. They have pointed out that the fall in excise duty that came into force last year improved their position in international competition. According to 2019 data, there were only five Member States in the European Union where the excise duty on diesel was higher than in Estonia. These were Italy, Belgium, France, the Netherlands and Ireland. However, only in the Netherlands there was no refund of excise duty on lorries. Perhaps Estonia was one of the largest excise duties imposed on transport companies in Europe. In the case of increases or reductions in excise duty rates, each government shall be accompanied by the same dispute. On the one hand, excise duties on diesel and electricity bring significant revenue to the state budget. On the other hand, too high excise rates encourage border trade and increase the share of the secret market and undermine the livelihood of our people. After the world began to be shaken by the unprecedented COVID-19 pandemic, we decided that concrete steps are needed to improve the livelihood of Estonian people and the competitive conditions of companies. That is why we have reduced 11 excise duties from natural gas and fuel oils to diesel and electricity. What is the result of this decision? In the case of diesel, this is a success story. Estonian companies brought their refueling from neighbouring countries back to Estonia. The number of diesel tanks is 24% higher than at previous rates. The Ministry of Finance's spring economic forecast also shows that trade in diesel at the border, which reached 65 million litres last year, is expected to fall to 1.2% or 10 million litres this year. In difficult economic circumstances, the decision has clearly justified itself. It has also favoured the competitiveness of domestic companies. [[The connection's breaking up.]] ... before the fall in excise duty, it was not possible to compete with neighbouring countries even in domestic transport. Data from Statistics Estonia testify to this. During the period from 2015 to 2019, the cargo turnover of Estonian companies decreased by 23%. After the fall in excise duty, the trend has slowed down and the cargo turnover in the third quarter of last year was 44% higher than in the first quarter of last year. The Estonian Oil Association, which brings together Estonian fuel sector companies, has made it clear that the government does not have full information about the actual positive effects of the current excise duty on our state budget in planning the state budget. They have stated in their public address to the government and the Riigikogu that the spring economic forecast of the Ministry of Finance contains incorrect estimates of the impact of excise duties on domestic consumption volumes of diesel, and therefore the positive impact of the low level of excise duties on the receipts of the state budget does not come out of the document. The Oil Association is of the opinion that keeping excise duties at the same level increases the annual quantities of diesel fuel in Estonia by at least 110 to 120 million litres, twice as much as the Ministry of Finance has assessed. In addition, the two scenarios of raising excise duty to EUR 493 per 1000 litres and maintaining the current level of excise duty, as compared to the current level, have shown that the effect of keeping excise duty at the current level, even in the minimum scenario, will have a neutral effect on the revenue from the state budget compared to the increase in excise duty. The Estonian Oil Association has calculated that if excise duty rises back to 493 euros per 1000 litres, the price of diesel at petrol stations could be more than 1.5 euros a litre in the next winter, together with a possible increase in oil prices. In addition to the higher excise duty, Estonia will be more stringent than Latvia and Lithuania... due to the lack of... price difference at filling stations... from November next year... [[The connection's breaking up.]] For Estonian carriers, this fuel, which accounts for more than 50% of the cost of carriers, is more expensive than in neighbouring carriers. We have seen this before in the case of alcohol duty, when Estonian taxpayers supported the shops on the Latvian border with their money. The sharp rise in excise duty is nothing more than a proliferation of border trade. The Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Trade has pointed out that, in view of the general competitive situation, it considers the amendment of the law initiated by the Isamaa Group to prevent the excise increases planned for the following year to be appropriate. According to the Chamber of Agriculture, the agricultural fuel excise duty should be reduced to a level comparable to that of Latvia and Lithuania. It is still unclear in what extent and whether the government plans to pay domestic subsidies next year. Depending on this decision, the increase in excise duty... may become even more important. The Estonian Food Industry Association has also referred to the significantly higher price of diesel compared to most other European countries, especially Latvia and Lithuania. This has a direct impact on logistics charges and transport prices. In particular, the large-scale indirect tax increases in the form of gas, electricity and fuel excise duties in previous years have been reflected in final prices for heavy duty and road use and have led to higher food prices for consumers. Estonia has been the leader of the rise in food and drink prices in the European Union, which affects Estonian consumers and concerns food processors. The latest consumer surveys clearly point to consumer price sensitivity and this is of concern. The Estonian Gas Association also supports the extension of lower excise rates initiated by Isamaa until 30 April 2023. This is also because Latvia and Lithuania have harmonised gas excise rates and are nearly 14 times cheaper than Estonia. The Polish excise duty rate is seven times cheaper and we have set an excise duty rate of 1.8 times higher than the Federal Republic of Germany. According to data from the European Commission's Directorate for Energy, Latvia's electricity excise duty is 1.01 euros for business customers, 0.52 euros per megawatt-hour in Lithuania, then in Estonia it is 4.47 euros. It is important to monitor the excise rates and differences set by neighbouring countries in the context of tax policy, especially in the business segment, as this is essential for competitiveness. One more point I want to bring in is the fight against climate change. In reality, the increase in excise duty on diesel has the opposite effect. As there are no solutions currently planned for heavy duty vehicles alongside the old diesel-using internal combustion engine, an increase in excise duty would not lead to a shift to new technologies. For heavy goods vehicles, the only way to reduce the climate impact of transport is to use liquid biofuels. By 2022, the share of biofuels in Estonian diesel will be 10%, i.e. 10% of fuel will have no CO2 emissions. The increase in excise duty would lead to the service of Estonian transport to Latvian, Lithuanian, Polish and other carriers who consume diesel with a lower biofuel content. For example, if an Estonian carrier were replaced by a Latvian carrier, the climate impact of a particular transport operation would increase by 10%. What's the solution? We have been in a crisis for more than a year now. Therefore, Isamaa has proposed a compromise to extend the reduced excise duty rates by one year in order to give companies additional time to recover under the economic crisis. At a time when the economy is still recovering, there is no additional tax burden on businesses. There is a need to look for ways to lower taxes and, if this fails, at least to prevent tax increases. These are simple principles and should be understood by every government. In order to prevent border trade, the excise policy of neighbours, in particular Latvia and Lithuania, needs to be monitored. Our excise duties should not be higher in the future than they do. When we cut excise duty on a fixed-term basis last year, we hoped that the crisis would not last long. During the discussions, we promised to come back to this issue during this year's discussions on the country's budgetary strategy and, if the crisis is going on, which is going on, and the neighbours have not increased the excise duty, to extend the current excise duty. Our immediate neighbours have not increased the excise duty, and therefore we should also prevent the rise in excise duty next year, without repeating the mistakes caused by border trade. The Estonian state should favour the competitiveness of our companies and mitigate the effects of the COVID-19 crisis. It is therefore necessary to extend the excise duty reduction until 1 May 2020. We keep our people and support Estonian entrepreneurs to have a level playing field with companies from other Baltic countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U343	Tarmo Kruusimäe would like you to clarify something. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U344	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I am not the smartest thing in finance, but I have the impression that we have some kind of excise ladder: Lithuania is below, then Latvia will come, then Estonia will come and then Finland will come. Have we concluded some silent "Awake, the Baltic States!" The agreement that Estonia is always a little more expensive and that Estonian people can do business should support border trade? Why is it not possible for us to keep excise calm in the same way when others in our region do so? Am I on the right track?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U345	Thank you for your question. Each country has been engaged in its own excise policy, but during the previous government, a clear and firm decision was made that border trade should be eliminated, starting with excise duties on alcohol and finally reaching excise duties on fuel, electricity and gas. With diesel, we have reached the same level as Latvia and Lithuania. The difference is that in winter Estonia was also obliged to add biodiesel, and therefore the price of fuel at our filling stations was higher in winter months than in Latvia. However, now that summer fuel is in use, gas station prices are the same. And speaking to the transport sector, Estonian fuel sellers have managed to keep their sales prices even lower than in Latvia and Lithuania.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U346	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U347	Good manager and good Aivar! You were the chairman of the Monetary Commission in the previous coalition. Explain to me why the Fatherland at the time didn't agree to stop messing with excise duties so that it would be permanent? Why did you insist that it be limited in time? Tell me and the others!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U348	Thank you, Peter! I don't know where you get that from. I was in those negotiations, but I didn't see you there. While there were negotiations on the deadline for the reduction of excise duty, the Latvian and Lithuanian parliaments also discussed excise policy. And in view of the fact that we did not know what Latvia and Lithuania were doing in the end, the agreement was that we would come back to this issue in this year's RES discussions and see what our neighbours have done. We are trying to keep our excises at the same level as our neighbours in the Baltics.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U349	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U350	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress Aivar! I was in these negotiations too, and I do remember that it was the demand of the Fatherland that excise duties should be reduced by a time limit and when the deadline starts to fall, we will look over so that it is true that then we will review the situation by then. I am glad that you have now realised that we were right and that we should have done this without a deadline. And we are, of course, in the same boat now: the increase in excise duties cannot be allowed by the Estonian state, because this means a recovery in border trade and refueling outside Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U351	Thank you. Mart, you remember very well, during the negotiations we just.... [[The connection's breaking up.]] The Baltics... excise issue on the table. We discussed that... it is also always necessary to keep the level of excise duty on Latvia and Lithuania below us in order to keep companies competitive. From there this compromise came that we were going to do it for two years, and then we will see what our neighbours have done, and we will try to keep excise duties on the same level in the Baltic States.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U352	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U353	Good manager! Good waitress! Now tell me what really happened back there. I was not there, of course, but speaking to entrepreneurs and carriers, as my colleague Mart said, was completely different. What was really there? Was it the brake of the Fatherland? It is now a step in the right direction, but I do not think it is the best option. What was really there? Speak in clear Estonian!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U354	Thank you, Peter! In the discussions where I was present, it was said that the excise policy in the Baltic States would be monitored and that a solution would be sought to balance excise duties. As we can see, in the gas policy, Latvia and Lithuania have managed to set their excise duties at the same level; they have no competitive boundary.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U355	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U356	Thank you, manager. Dear colleague Aivar! You're talking about excise policy in the Baltics, but as you know, the difference in the price of special-marked diesel between the Baltics is enormous. If in Lithuania it is 60 euros and in Latvia it is 62,1, then in Estonia 100 at the moment. If we restore the old situation, or EUR 133 per 1000 litres, it will be twice as high as our neighbours in Latvia and Lithuania. When did such inequality occur, and why has it not been smoothed out by today? This is a direct competition issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U357	Thank you, Tarmo, for the question. It is true that Lithuania has 60 euros, Latvia has 62.1 euros per 1000 litres and we have 100 euros. For now, however, as a coalition politician and chairman of the committee, as you, as a minister in this field, had great opportunity to reduce the excise duty on this specially labelled fuel for farmers even more than has been done for two years. The purpose of our bill is to extend it for at least another year. But I wouldn't mind if the Centre Party proposed to bring this excise duty to the same level as Latvia and Lithuania, i.e. about 60 euros per 1000 litres.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U358	No further questions. Thank you. Erki Savisaar will present the draft on behalf of the Committee on Finance. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U359	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Committee on Finance discussed this draft at its meeting on 10 May this year. Marek Uusküla, Head of the Department of Customs and Excise Policy of the Ministry of Finance, and Lauri Lelumees, Chief Specialist, were also invited to the discussion. As a representative of the initiators, Aivar Kokk gave an overview of the draft, who presented it more briefly at the committee meeting than today in this large Chamber. However, the content of the draft is an extension of one year of the current temporary excise duty reductions. At the time of the meeting of the Commission, the Government of the Republic had not yet delivered an opinion on this draft. According to Commissioner Jürgen Ligi, the previous government's decision that excise preferences are temporary should be maintained. In his view, the economy should not be built on cheap fossil fuels. This is short-sighted and ridiculous in terms of climate policy. Aivar Sõerd asked about Latvia and Lithuania, and Marek Uusküla reported that Latvia and Lithuania did not plan any changes in excise duty to his knowledge. According to Riina Sikkut, last year the implementation of this crisis measure was wrong. The subject should also be looked at in relation to climate objectives and the price of electricity for the household consumer, simply extending the measures without discussing the overall picture is not justified. As a result of such a small debate, the Commission decided, by six votes to three, to propose that the first reading of the draft be completed. The consensus considered that, when the first reading was closed, the deadline for amendments could be 1 June at 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U360	Helir-Valdor Seeder would like to ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U361	Thank you. You said the position of the Government of the Republic was not known by the time the commission was held. Is it known today whether the government will support this draft or whether the government will not support this draft and initiative?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U362	Thank you. The government made its decision at its meeting on 13 May and decided that it would not support this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U363	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U364	Thank you. What were the government's arguments as to why they did not support this bill? And what do you think of these arguments, who have supported this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U365	Thank you. In its decision, the Government of the Republic states that the author of the draft has not proposed sources of financial cover and that the analysis of the impact of excise duty by the Ministry of Finance is fundamentally different from that of the initiators of the draft. My modest opinion is that we need to find out what these effects will actually be, and then we can move on to a deliberate decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U366	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U367	Thank you, good chairman of the meeting. Good waitress! Here's my question. Did you also discuss in the Commission why the proposal for a draft law is only a one-year postponement? Why not two, three, or more? Did you talk about it on the committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U368	Thank you. There was talk of this, and the initiator of the draft was convinced that it was a very good debate place in the next Riigikogu elections, and that is why it is best to extend it by one year.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U369	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U370	Thank you. As we have now learned, the government does not support the draft, which means that excise duties could rise. As a rule, the government makes its decision by consensus. There are currently two parties to the government, the Reform Party and the Centre Party. Thus, the Ministers of the Centre Party supported this government's view that excise duties could rise. The representatives of the Centre Party in the Commission considered that they would support the completion of the first reading of the draft and that it would be possible to proceed with the draft, i.e. they had a different view than the Government of the Republic. How do you figure that out? And as chairman of the committee, what is the potential of this draft and what kind of government do we have: do we have a minority government that consists only of the Reform Party, and the Centre Party is in opposition, or is there such a deep division in the Centre Party that ministers feel the same way and the members of the Riigikogu feel differently? What would happen to this bill in such a situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U371	Thank you. The processing of draft laws is still dealt with by the Riigikogu and the Government of the Republic simply expressed its opinion. And the procedure that follows will depend on how today's debate ends in this large Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U372	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U373	Thank you. You referred to the use of fossil fuels and the green turn that awaits us in Europe, including Estonia, in the course of the discussions in the Commission, that it makes sense to make this change. But have you also discussed how this affects sectors? We had a meeting with the oil union today and they indicated that the volume of freight transport in Estonia has increased, but the benefits have not been shared by Estonian transport companies. This is particularly true during the period when excise duties were higher. During this period more vehicles from Latvia, Lithuania, Ukraine and Poland were driving on our roads. Perhaps the movement of goods on the road is actually taking place, the risks and risks arising from it are there in Estonia, but what does not exist is the work of Estonian people and the collection of taxes. In this context, how do you comment on this issue of excise duty?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U374	Thank you. We did not meet stakeholders in the preparation of this draft at first reading. However, if the procedure for this draft continues, we will certainly meet with all stakeholders in preparation for a second reading, and we will also be able to ask these questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U375	Thank you. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U376	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Has there been or is an analysis to be made of how much excise duty increases are causing job losses in Estonia, corporate losses, reduced tax receipts and perhaps how many people who work in the transport sector and are going to ease our northern neighbour's workforce?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U377	Thank you. Among the opinions received by the Commission, the opinion of the Ministry of Finance did not address this issue. However, the transport sector and the oil union have sent their estimates. Let's just say that these letters are relatively controversial, there is no such common position or evidence in them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U378	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Martin Helme, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U379	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft is certainly a step in the right direction. In Estonia, diesel excise duties are currently reasonably low. But I would remind you that a little more than a year ago, in the previous government, not only diesel excise duty, but also gas excise duty and electricity excise duty were lowered, while electricity excise duty was reduced to the lowest possible level permitted by the European directives. The excise duty on diesel will undoubtedly have the greatest impact on the state budget, which will be collected more than other excise duties on fuel. However, the level of excise duties on gas is also very important on a sector-by-sector basis. Estonia had a crazyly high gas excise duty before it fell compared to the countries around us, and this excise duty has an impact on agriculture, the furniture industry and the chemical industry. The electric excise duty, however, affects all Estonian people. For the sake of the truth, one thing must be overcome. Unlike Aivar Coke, I was at the heart of the discussions at the time, with all those discussions on how much to reduce and whether the fall is temporary or permanent. Remember, the previous government also lowered excise duties on alcohol and this was done on a permanent basis. And the result of this reduction in alcohol duty is a significant reduction in border trade to a'reasonable' level, without the state budget having suffered any damage. True, we find it difficult to estimate statistics, for it is impossible to take such a comparison between the corona and the full years. But in the case of the reduction of diesel excise, it is a fact that it was a fraction of the Fatherland that categorically stood for it to be not a permanent downfall, but a temporary downfall. We agreed. The second option was that there would have been no fall at all. We agreed with this in the certainty that once we have done the fall, we will see its benefits, and that the benefits are so clear and so understandable that there are not such crazy people in Estonia who will allow the excise rise that we had then introduced into the law. In fact, in the previous government coalition, there was still a fundamental understanding that in a year's time, the effects of this fall would be re-examined and the rate would be moved to a permanent rate, i.e. the current rate would be made permanent. And the reasons are very simple: all the positive things that we predicted would happen happened. Consumption came back to Estonia on a massive basis and was better than predicted at a new, lower rate. Yes, it caused the state budget to sink, however, but the downfall that came from the reduction of diesel excise is about three times smaller than the downfall that came from the corona restrictions. So, yes, if we look at the general number in 2020, the amount of diesel excise tax received in Estonia was quite lower, but most of it was due to corona restrictions. And, of course, all these other hardest-measuring, positive side effects, i.e. improving the competitiveness of Estonian companies, the same Latvian-Lithuania transport companies, basically dumped entry into the Estonian market decreased significantly and the price increase for the final consumer decreased significantly. Estonia was the country with the fastest fall in prices in Europe in 2020, i.e. we had the highest fall in prices in all areas. Yes, because of the corona, there was a fall in prices throughout the euro area, but our fall in prices was the highest in comparison with all other countries. And the statistics clearly confirm that tax policy, or those excise duties on energy carriers that we did, played a very important role in this. The improvement of the labour market in these sectors as well. All the positive results we predicted were there. Now the following: when there was a rapid increase in excise duty in Estonia, both alcohol and fuel excise, as predicted and worse then, consumption moved to other countries and the receipts fell into the state budget. The RES adopted by the government has now predicted that despite the sharp rise in the price of diesel consumption in Estonia, it will continue to grow in the order of 5% per year. At the same time, we know that at the rate of excise duty to which it is intended to return, there was a decrease in consumption of around 5% per year. And the budget's coming down. If the government claims that diesel excise duty needs to be increased in order to improve the position of the state budget, they are living in some kind of delusion, because the revenue from the state budget with an increase in excise duty will not improve. Rather, it may be feared that the revenue from the state budget will decrease. If the sole objective is to balance the budget, the increase in excise duty will undermine the balance. But if the goal is not only that things in Estonia are cheap, that Estonian companies have the ability to compete with their neighbours, Latvians and Lithuanians, and if the goal is also to have a smaller carbon footprint, then diesel excise duty must not be increased. There will be no goods in Estonia, the goods will be transported here simply by trucks who drive home to Latvia or Lithuania for the night. That's what happens. We do not need less diesel in Estonia. It is simply refueled outside Estonia and taxes are also paid outside Estonia. So if I have one complaint to this bill, it is that the same rake is being re-taken, the current rate of continuation is only intended to be maintained for one year. In fact, a correction should be made to this draft, which will make the current rates of excise duty permanent. I have no belief that we will be able to change the law by May after the next Riigikogu elections in such a way that this automatic rise will not take place. That's not gonna happen. In that case, our diesel excise rate is gonna jump up and down. In any case, it must be made permanent and then this draft is very good.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U380	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U381	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Aivar Kokk, on behalf of the initiators, has already talked to a large extent about the content and meaning of this draft, and the previous speaker has also mentioned some aspects in his speech. However, on behalf of the Isamaa Group, I consider it important to say a few keywords and to highlight a few things. In fact, the negative impact of a rapid increase in excise duty has been experienced in the recent past and we have been working on correcting errors. The previous government lowered a number of excises. Now, when we are about to emerge from the corona crisis, hopefully, and the economy must get a new boost, we must be careful to ensure that the Estonian economy gets this new momentum. And it also requires, above all, monitoring the tax policy of our immediate neighbours, our competitors. After all, Estonian entrepreneurs, Estonian entrepreneurship and the Estonian economy compete with them. And as long as Latvia, Lithuania and other immediate neighbours pursue a different diesel and fuel excise policy, we cannot look at ourselves separately and rely solely on the theoretical calculations of the Ministry of Finance that we are raising excise duties and therefore more money comes into the budget. This is a little living in dreams and dreams, which probably will not become reality and which will result in the opposite, i.e. reducing the competitiveness of Estonian business and the economy. In the end, the revenue from excise duties may be reduced in the national budget. And there is another aspect. At present, this is an overall rapid increase in prices. This concerns the construction sector and a large number of other sectors, such as, of course, it has a very significant impact on transport. In addition, the recovery of oil demand linked to exiting the crisis means that demand for oil is increasing on the world market, and this is putting further pressure on fuel prices to increase. And if we add here Estonia's initiative to increase excise duty at the same time, all these factors will accumulate and have an impact on Estonian business and the economy and, of course, on people's livelihoods. So these are the negative effects from which we need to act flexibly in the current situation. Indeed, this bill now envisages an extension of the current level of excise duties by one year. If the procedure is found and prepared to make it either longer-term or permanent, then the initiators are prepared to actively negotiate on this subject, to seek better solutions. However, it seems to me that the situation is, in fact, that hopefully this first reading will be completed today. At the same time, there is a risk that the bill will stand on the shelf for a long time, and the actual moment of truth of decision will come in the autumn of next year's state budget procedure. Well, even if we find a solution, it is very good, but I very much invite the coalition ambassadors to proceed with this draft, not to play this game, that the first reading will end, and then the bill will just stop for an unknown period. I call for a move forward and for this draft to be adopted, which gives clarity to entrepreneurs, gives a clear signal to the people what the tax policy of the near future will be in Estonia. This is an important knowledge for them. Let's not push this decision far into the autumn, we don't know what fall this bill will become. So, on behalf of the initiators, I call for the first reading to be stopped today. If there are good proposals, we are undoubtedly prepared to take them into account. We hope to lead to the third reading of the draft and to adopt it as a law before the end of the session's work.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U382	Thank you. There's no more calls. The commission has proposed to stop reading draft 370. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 1 June.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U383	Let's move on to the next item: First reading of § 55 of the Supplementary Law Act 363 initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group and Riigikogu member Raimond Kaljulaid. The rapporteur is Heljo Pikhof, member of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U384	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! Allow me to introduce a draft law supplementing § 55 of the Health Insurance Act initiated by the Social Democrats 363. First, what is the care allowance? Care allowance is a temporary incapacity benefit and is granted on the basis of the health insurance fund's maintenance sheet to a person who loses income subject to social tax due to the care of a sick child or other family member. The care allowance is paid on the basis of the recipient's daily income calculated on the basis of the income taxed on the social tax of the previous calendar year. The current procedure, where a parent who has left work after the end of the parental benefit receives only a minimum salary benefit for a sick child, is unfair to the family. The point is that 80% of the daily income paid to the insured for caring for the sick child is calculated on the basis of the social tax paid in the previous calendar year. However, no matter how much it is, no social tax is levied on parental benefits. Thus, the minimum wage is currently the basis for settlement. For many parents, this comes as a bad surprise, as did the journalist Piret Reiljan. He wrote in September 2019 that he was surprised to find that the state was paying 80% of the daily income charged by social tax in the previous calendar year for being on a care page with a sick child who had just returned to work, but the point is that parental pay is not subject to social tax. This means that, if the parent returns to work and, in the previous calendar year, did not earn a monthly salary exceeding the minimum wage in addition to the parental benefit, he or she will receive a minimum salary for the care of the sick child regardless of the amount of parental benefit received. He added that such a snip might blow a hole in the family budget. However, even if the parent has earned a premium higher than the minimum wage in the previous calendar year but has taken up work, for example in the middle or at the end of the year, the daily earnings earned over the last few months shall be distributed throughout the year. Thus, a parent who has not received his normal salary throughout the previous calendar year generally loses the amount of care allowance and this inevitably puts many families in an unexpectedly difficult situation. This unfair procedure for calculating care compensation applies from October 2002. Before that, the current principle of calculating the care allowance also applied, but was based on the last six months' remuneration. Thus, in 2002, the system became even more unfair to a working parent. In addition to the above, the care benefit rate was reduced from 100% to 80% in 2009 in order to save health insurance funds. But, as we well know, just as a young child at home adapts to the kindergarten and the collective, she gets sick very often and mother, sometimes her father, gets out of work. The data of the 2019 Health Insurance Fund only confirm this. The cost of care sheets for children under four years of age to the state was approximately 13 million euros, or more than half of the total cost of care compensation. But you can take care of a child up to 12 years of age and a disabled adolescent under 19 years of age, as well as other sick family members. If the baby is constantly ill and the mother is out of work, it can start with a sort of chain reaction. The parent will also be in a worse position next year if he or she needs a sick or care sheet, as welfare benefits will not be taxed on social security contributions either. Under the amendments to the draft regulation, a parent who has returned from parental leave who did not have social tax income or income less than the amount of parental benefit will receive 80% of the amount of parental benefit paid in the previous calendar year. If, in the previous calendar year, a person who has been on parental leave received, in addition to the parental benefit, income subject to social tax, which was higher than the amount of parental benefit, the payment of the care benefit shall be based on the income subject to social tax. Ladies and gentlemen, In November 2019, Minister Tanel Kiik stated that the current procedure, where the mother or father who returned to work after the termination of parental pay will receive compensation below the minimum wage on the basis of the sick child's maintenance sheet, has gone on track and that the Ministry has raised the issue and calculated the possible cost of changing the system. I would remind you that it was 2019. In an interview given to the newspaper Capital, Minister of Social Affairs Signe Riisalo has considered it right to reduce the vulnerability of women, particularly in terms of materiality and the risks of re-entering the labour market. The question now arises as to what would be the additional cost to the state budget. The additional cost to the state budget compared to the current situation would be EUR 2.4 million if the amount of care allowance would be 80% of their parental benefit if parents returned to work on parental leave. According to the information provided by the Health Insurance Fund in 2019, care sheets were taken to care for a child between 24477 and four years of age, which accounted for 34% of all children of the same age. This percentage has been taken into account for beneficiaries of parental benefit who are going to take care of them. The average number of days reimbursed per guardian of a child between one and four years of age was 18 days per year. Finally, according to the Socialists' supplementary proposal, the parental benefit would be paid or, if the person on parental leave has earned a higher income and is subject to social tax, a higher one. In short, compensation for the maintenance sheet should be more favourable to the family: 80% of the larger amount calculated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U385	Thank you. It would be possible to ask questions now. Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U386	Thank you. Good Heljo! How do you think a system where some parents are in just a different situation will affect the gender pay gap? I don't mean to say that only mothers stay on the maintenance sheet, but still, since the baby is still so small, there's probably a connection. Estonia is already not very well off with these indicators in Europe, if you could say so. Does it affect, and if so, how does it affect, and is that also an argument that maybe can affect people who will soon be making decisions on this matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U387	Thank you for your question, a very good question. We basically know that the income of mothers of young children is falling because of their children. The more children in the family, the more often the mother's income will be lower in the future and, consequently, the pension will be lower. I think we need to find a political solution so that nothing pulls down income, whether it's on the maintenance page or something else. And research should also be carried out on this. Let's think about what happens when the baby goes to kindergarten. We take Tartu specifically, where the place fee for kindergarten is 81 euros. If there were no socialist power there, the pay for the place would probably have increased this year and would have risen next year. Now, the parent has received parental allowance. Many young people are in debt at home, and they have reported that their income will continue in some way. But take your finger! I'll give you an example of a single parent who's got a pretty decent parent's salary and maybe raises three or four children alone, who get sick by the ribbed track. The care allowance, calculated on the basis of the minimum wage, can still lead to a rather difficult situation for this family. Sometimes, as I have been told, you even have to ask for income support - just doesn't come out. If the care allowance was calculated on the basis of the parent's salary and this parent's salary has been above the minimum average is higher, and much higher, this family could count on this money and the kindergarten pay, and everything else would not seem so expensive. But imagine if 80% is counted not on this year's salary, but on last year's minimum wage, and maybe even several times a month with children or children in turn on the care page, this loss of income will affect women. Especially women, but also men when men take this responsibility, and more and more men take it. I've been asking the health department about this. It is known that sometimes the father has been the recipient of parental benefit, but if the child gets sick, the father no longer wants to be at home with the allowance calculated on this minimum wage, and then it is the mother's turn. But yes, mostly it's the other way around.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U388	Good luck Hill, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U389	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I see that you have thoroughly examined this issue with the Social Democrats, reviewing...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U390	Why don't you take off the mask? I can't hear you. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U391	I see that you and the Social Democrats have thoroughly analysed this issue. We are also talking about the amount that is needed from the state budget. However, it is not possible to read out of the draft explanatory memorandum what is the source of the cover from which these 2.4 million could be taken this year. Let us be honest, I think that there is no one to help families with children to cope better. The government has also said that they are in favour of such a comprehensive solution. But maybe you'll bring out the source of the cover where you can take the money.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U392	Thank you. If we look at the state budget, finding this 2.4 million from the state budget and the sickness fund is not the amount that would make you wonder. In fact, we still have to think about families with children. On the one hand, we have made the parental benefit system more flexible. We have one draft concerning family allowances or, let's say, not so much family allowances, but also, in the case of parental benefits, exceptions for the COVID period. And I think it's right. But if we find money for this, I think finding 2.4 million of our children and families in the state budget is only a question of wanting. There's another bill that we're about to discuss here, and it's all about the same thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U393	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U394	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You have made it very clear that the parent who has returned from parental leave receives 80% of the minimum wage in the event of an infant's illness. My question is, is that fair? Does it increase the birth rate and also favour children's successive births? Or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U395	Thank you for your question. Now, how do I tell you how this will affect birth rate... But the children's successive births, i.e. at some small intervals, when one child goes to kindergarten and the other does not go, and so on and these differences come in on income, it will certainly have an impact on families with children. This is the most important thing to mention right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U396	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U397	Thank you. Good waitress! As I understand it, a parent who comes from parental leave to work is often very surprised during a child's illness that temporary incapacity benefit is significantly lower than the family had taken into account. We've been over this today. An unexpected and difficult situation arises. And the amount we are talking about is not very large for the country. Why do you think that neither the government nor the Committee on Social Affairs want to support those changes that would improve the socio-economic situation of families with children?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U398	Thank you. I'm about to find this protocol and the government's position. In fact, when I read the government's position, I had the idea that they wouldn't have much to say about this bill. It states: "The wording proposed in the draft relates only partially to the situation arising in respect of the payment of the care allowance. " And then everything that concerns the sick leaves is brought here, but the sick leaf is something other than the care sheet. And, as always, when it comes to playing a corner, it is said: "The government is in favour of a comprehensive solution to the problem presented, together with an overall impact assessment on the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, and this requires further discussions with the parties concerned." I'll see if I can find the place we discussed. Yeah, I will. The representative of the Social Affairs Committee will probably also reflect this later. As I understand it, an official in the Commission, representing the Minister for Health and Labour, said that the proposed amendments only concern the payment of care benefits to parents who have returned from parental leave, but a similar situation arises when other temporary incapacity benefits, such as parent sickness, are paid. He said that the equal treatment of insured persons in the event of compensation should be assessed. Our bill says that if a child falls ill and a parent has to take a maintenance sheet to nurse a sick child, he or she will not receive a care allowance based on the minimum wage, but either on the parental benefit received earlier, or if he or she has worked during the period of parental benefit and received a higher social tax income than his or her parental benefit, on that basis. So in any case, there must be a more favourable situation for people. For example, the official also said that in the case of sick leave, the average income of the previous calendar year is also taken into account for the payment of the benefit and that the benefits calculated on different grounds would create confusion for people. I don't think it's confusing. I also know this, and it is to be welcomed that Minister Tanel Kiik has also discussed it and carried it forward in his ministry. But these things stretch, stretch, and stretch. There's gonna be a new government. Still can't go on. This situation must be resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U399	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U400	Thank you for the floor. Good waitress, good Heljo, can you explain, please, why this system is like this now? I understand that the Social Insurance Institution pays the parent who receives the parental benefit at the minimum rate of social security contributions, and that in turn means that the other social benefits of the parent, which are sickness benefit and unemployment benefit and future pensions, will be a fraction lower after parental leave when moving to work. Could it be considered that the state would pay social tax on the basis of the entire parental benefit rather than on the basis of the minimum?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U401	Thank you for your question. I think that would definitely be the solution. We will look at the total number of beneficiaries of parental benefit in 2019. They were then 31951 and the minimum monthly allowance was 5133 and the parental benefit was 3395 during this period and the maximum rate was over 1300 slightly. If we look at the average amount of parental benefit per month during this period, it was EUR 1202. If men were beneficiaries of parental benefit, this figure was on average 1727 and, if women, 1133 euros. I think that these figures speak their own language when we talk about what injustice prevails when a person goes to work and suddenly discovers that when he is at home with a sick child, the compensation is only 80% of last year's minimum wage.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U402	Thank you. No further questions. Please waitress the Social Affairs Committee's representative, Luck Pillaku!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U403	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft Act supplementing § 55 of the Health Insurance Act 363 this year on 10 May. In the Committee on Social Affairs, the representative of the initiators, Heljo Pikhof, introduced the draft as thoroughly as he did here a moment before the Riigikogu to all of us. The government discussed the draft on 25 March and decided not to support it in its proposed form, as the government is in favour of a comprehensive solution to the problem presented, together with an assessment of the budgetary implications of the Health Insurance Fund, and this requires further discussions with the parties concerned. The implementation of the draft 363 would also entail a cost to the state budget of EUR 2.4 million, which is not provided for in the state budget this year. For their part, the drafters have not provided any sources of cover from which to take the necessary funds this year. Members of the Commission also had questions about the draft. I asked myself if it was possible to know when the government was planning to come up with a comprehensive solution, and the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs replied that the exact time frame had not yet been set, but the first steps were expected to be introduced in the autumn of this year. Helmen Kütt, a member of the Committee on Social Affairs, proposed that, although this year this bill cannot be enforced as a law for both time and financial reasons, this measure could reach next year's budget talks. In addition, he asked whether any calculations had been made on the resources needed to solve the care benefit problem. According to the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs, according to the impact analysis, the cost of implementing the bill to the state budget was 2.4 million euros, but he also pointed out that in the programme referred to earlier today, where Minister Tanel Kiik also spoke about this topic, he pointed out that the impact was actually 10 million euros. Heljo Pikhof explained that according to the calculations of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, the cost is 2.4 million euros. After the questions were exhausted, the Social Affairs Committee took the following procedural decisions: Firstly, to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 18 May. This proposal was supported by all members of the Commission. Secondly, to propose that the draft be rejected at first reading. The proposal was supported by 6 and 2 members of the Commission opposed. And thirdly, to appoint me, the Good luck drop, to be the Commission's waitress. This proposal was supported by all members of the Commission. Thank you. I'd be happy to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U404	There are indeed questions. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U405	Thank you. Honourable Commission waitress. If we are looking at the Family Benefits Act, the purpose of parental benefit is to ensure a replacement income for a person who raises a child under three years of age and to promote reconciliation between work and family life. My question is why the state does not take into account the current amount of parental benefit when calculating and paying care benefits. It's supposed to be a substitute income. We are talking today about the maintenance sheet, we are not talking today about the so-called sick list, which is given on other grounds. The maintenance sheet shall be provided on a specified basis. Why does this principle not apply here?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U406	Thank you for that question. I am indebted to the answer now, I do not know why it has been put in place exactly that way. And, as you yourself know, you were present at the committee meeting, there we did not discuss this in detail. I'm sure that would have been explained to you by a representative of the ministry.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U407	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U408	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good luck! Have you noticed in the work of the Commission that whenever an initiative comes from somewhere, the government is slightly opposed to it if it comes from the opposition or is not written in the coalition agreement. It is often said that they themselves actually already have this plan, and they come up with this big plan. But they never tell me when they're really gonna come out with it. Have you asked the government representative in the Commission or the ministry when they actually come up with this plan? The few times that I have been to the Committee on Social Affairs, having been a substitute, it has been said that we have exactly the same plan and we will come up with it. But if we have a crisis and we want to give relief to people in this crisis, we should deal with it now and take the initiative, grab the bull by the horns, not wait for the Ministry to catch up. Was that discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U409	Thank you, good Tarmo! As you probably heard in the beginning of my report, or rather in the meantime, I asked the same question myself in the committee, and it was with a desire to understand that if we say no to this proposal today and the government plans to come up with a more comprehensive solution, when would that happen? And I received a reply from the Ministry of Social Affairs that we can expect the first steps in the autumn of this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U410	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U411	Thank you. As I said earlier, in this broadcast on the "Political desk," Tanel Kiik said that the current procedure, according to which the mother or father who returned to work after the termination of parental pay will receive a benefit calculated on the basis of the minimum wage on the basis of the sick child's maintenance sheet, has passed away and the Ministry has put the subject on the table. It was 2019. I have the feeling that the current government has raised the topics to the table ♪ not just the subject of this maintenance sheet ♪ and is keeping them on the table. If you're saying this fall, my question is why this fall? We could go ahead with this now, send the bill to second reading, and if the government has something to add, it will add.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U412	Thank you for that question. First of all, I would like to point out that the government of Kaja Kallas has been in office for three months. This is certainly an important issue, but there are, I would say, faster and more burning issues in the current corona crisis that need to be resolved. It took a great deal of time for the new government to put together and adopt the additional budget this year. When it comes to completing this draft, or sending it to second reading, see if we are going to take the decision today that we are going to send it back to the Commission, we still know that there are no necessary funds in this year's budget. And it will not help families if we send the bill back to the Commission and it stops. That's not gonna help. It will help if we find these solutions together, if necessary compromises, how we can help families and really do this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U413	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U414	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! It's a bit of a good and interesting finding that some subject is on the table. I recall that one subject, the memorial of the victims of communism, was not even on the table for three years, but in the drawer. Now we hear that in 2019 it was said that the theme was on the table, and now we have to wait until autumn. I would like to remind you that the Riigikogu does not have to wait very much for the government to dare to do anything. The Riigikogu should exert pressure, all the more so because you have several former social ministers in the committee and we have several former ministers in this Chamber. Has there been a debate outside the commission on how it is possible to break this wall of officials so that they can still take the initiative of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U415	Thank you for that question. In the debate on this draft, we did not address this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U416	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U417	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I believe this government is a child-friendly government. I really want to believe that, although I have reservations about cutting the amount of interest education. At the same time, the 300 bill, which we will have to read soon and perhaps also be adopted, shows that families and children with children are considered important. The government has come up with two additional points that were originally in the previous draft government, and they concern children and families. Now this bill, you say that the government will come out with it in the autumn. It is likely that if a comprehensive package comes out in the autumn, it will still enter into force next year. The same question I had in the Commission was that if this year cannot be enforced by 10 days after 1 July, it could enter into force at the beginning of next year. Every child is important, and this bill certainly promotes the birth of children as well as the birth of successive children. Do you have the hope that the government's draft will come into effect on 1 January?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U418	Thank you, good Helmen, for this question. I cannot confirm or disprove it because I have not yet seen this draft. And if you ask why it's been so long, I think that's a question you should ask Minister Tanel Kiige.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U419	No further questions. We can go to the negotiations... I'm sorry! It's a procedure, isn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U420	Yeah. Such a remark simply that what I ask of Tanel Kiige concerns health care and medical matters. The Minister of Social Security is Signe Riisalo, and I'm still asking him.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U421	And neither is in the hall right now. We can go to the negotiations. Only the political groups can participate in the negotiations at first reading. I don't see the wish for negotiations. The commission has proposed to reject the draft 363 at first reading. I shall put to the vote the proposal to reject the commission, but first the call for proposals. Dear Riigikogu, I put to the vote a motion for the rejection of the draft 363 proposed by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U422	There were 54 people in favour of rejection, 35 against. The bill fell out of procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U423	We go to today's fourth item: First reading of the Riigikogu's resolution on "Accepting the ranking of the construction and renovation of state-of-the-art cultural buildings" submitted by the Committee on Culture 387. The rapporteur is Mr Aadu Black, Chairman of the Committee on Culture. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U424	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Our draft is rather short in terms of content and lines, but the work to prepare it was extremely long. On the basis of Article 11 (2) (3) of the Estonian Cultural Endowment Act, our draft law provides for the following ranking: the cultural centre of the heart of Tartu, the Cultural Quarter of Narva Kreenholm, the Arvo Pärt Music House in Rakvere and the extension of the current building of the National Opera in Tallinn. First of all, there were a number of things in the preparation of this law that deviated from the normal rhythm. The story started with that when we announced a competition (it happened in February 2020), the deadline for the submission of proposals was 30 April by which everyone could make their proposals publicly. But we all remember it was corona time. We thought it was almost over, and the deadline shifted to August 31st. I'm sure it was a good thing that this deadline could be shifted, because the first moods were so bad that even the opinion of the society here and there was that what cultural objects you were talking about, you better think about how to rebuild the Vanemuine Theatre into a hospital. Well, those things didn't get that bad. Our first vote... I see, because the public had a great deal of attention against this draft and because some and others and third project performers needed opportunities to introduce their affairs more closely, and some felt that this should be done to one or another member of the Committee on Culture, so that it would really be as public as possible, we even organised a session. On 2 and 3 November, this was a session-free week of the Riigikogu, we had a presentation round where all the project performers who had not taken back their project had been invited. It was an online event and as a result the Committee on Culture looked, analysed and concluded that there was a very clear difference between the two groups of projects. This is how we found that we would continue to work on 11 better projects. Of course, in order to prevent all the questions that should come, although the explanatory memorandum has also been sought to make the most comprehensive and detailed possible, I would say that the main issue is whether all the threats have been removed and on what basis [decided], which were general principles, both journalists and colleagues have had. From the outset, the Commission has indeed established basic principles for itself. The first and unbreakable principle was that the object to be built must be important and contribute to the development of Estonian cultural life must be done in a sustainable way, not just for a moment. This was the most important criterion on which we had to base. Secondly, the members of the Commission suggested that the regional principle should be taken into account. Again and again, this statement that Estonia will not end when it comes out of Tallinn in any direction. So this was to be taken into account by the Commission. We also made an effort to read what the legislator had requested in his day to capture this spirit as accurately as possible. We also examined who looked at who didn't, we didn't read it together, but, for example, I looked very thoroughly through the 1996 and 1997 documents, how things were solved then. There was also a lot of surprises that maybe we didn't know before. In any case, I assure you, it was discussed. Two times we met with cultural capital, the second time with the Cultural Capital Council, because all the experience is crucial to not inventing the bike ourselves, or worse, driving from incompetent to a ditch. Both the smaller consultations and the formal meeting were with the Director-General of the Estonian Heritage Board, because we all know that there are a lot of heritage values, which are usually hidden under the soil in the sweetest parts of the cities. It was also pointed out from the outside that the requirements of heritage protection must be met. Let it be said in advance that we have later heard that there were many or many differences of opinion among people interested in heritage conservation. But the National Heritage Board showed that they are demanding, but still based on European traditions of heritage protection, according to which protected objects, buildings for example, must first be in circulation and then remain as original as possible, because empty houses do not survive, etc. I must also explain to you that there was quite a lot of talk in the press about this subject and, unfortunately, there has been enough disinformation. They used to talk about certain things. All of you have noticed how at some point a large red dresser was built next to Estonia, which was raised towards the sky, but in the end it turned out that no document showed that any additional building could be even an inch higher than the existing main building. Fantastic fears that were fiercely fought were, by the way, numerous and most of the objects. It is also important that we worked, of course, in close cooperation with the specialists of the Ministry of Culture. The Commission was of the opinion that it would be difficult to make choices if only a few of the necessary items had to be selected. This means that we also tried to talk to the various parties, the Ministry of Culture, to analyse, to see how it is possible to help or to find financing for those objects that were not among our chosen ones. So this [list] doesn't mean that everyone else has been knocked off the table and nothing else is coming. For example, for some project, there were serious discussions about the need to consult the EAS, because some object looks like this to give it additional funding. The central issue was also co-financing. We all know that if the money's low, let's make sure the object doesn't stop for God, or it's not done a little bit, and it's not done a little bit. Of course, they looked at the maturity of the projects, etc., as is always the case with such things. The importance of the building to the entire state of Estonia, the possibility of using the building in a versatile way, was examined whether it was for only one art collective (it could also be if it was the most important art collection for example), but also the impact on the region, regional development etc. So these are the aspects we tried to consider in a diverse way. What is more, when they finally look at this list and they say that you see that we did not fit into the first four, I say that in fact the Commission was still discussing things in a complex way, in the end, roughly, so that when we were planning our vote, we looked at it so as not to come up with four very single faces. But I think that's more of a detail. In other words, we put a fairly detailed overview of all four selected projects. There are also references to the website of the Riigikogu, where these same documents are available to everyone, if there is a need for them over and over again. Like I said, we tried our best. There is also a lot of question that, if the vote already revealed what these objects were, why there was another round of votes and why they still needed to be regrouped or grouped. I'll start with the result. The result is very good in the sense that it also corresponds to the level of preparation of the objects, looked at what could be started immediately or where problems still need to be solved in advance. The first objective, as has already been mentioned, was the rise of the centre of culture. For example, when we listened to them, the Cultural Capital Council stressed that this was indeed the most harmonious and very well-prepared project in their opinion as well. It was examined whether all parks would be taken down or not. It turns out fear has big eyes. However, this was not directly the main issue of the Commission. In regional terms, it was also found that this centre of culture helps to balance the cultural image of Estonia in some ways. Well, anyway, as we all know, Tallinn is the capital, and we all love it, but it is not only Tallinn that can be built up. I'm not gonna tell you all the details, because there's a lot of them. I hope that if someone has something in their heart, or if someone feels that there is no proper answer, the [debate] may continue. I'm saving some time for the report because I think it can be used effectively by answering your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U425	This is a first reading and two questions can be asked by each ambassador. Questions have already been raised. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U426	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Mr Aadu Black, Chairman of the Committee on Culture! Anu Raud's cultural centre was built with EUR 1.5 million in cultural capital. This object came fifth in your vote. Given that the cultural centre could be built within the next two years, so probably before the three major objects presented to us even reach the architectural competition, would you personally be in favour of adding the fifth, small-scale object to the list?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U427	[[Remote connection]] In fact, the objects where my heart drips personally because they're not on that list are considerably more. We talked about this with the previous Minister of Culture as well as with the current Minister of Culture. Some of these things are also extremely necessary nationally. Anu Raud's centre is certainly a nice thing, one that needs to be dealt with, like a film campus or some other project whose importance to Estonian culture is important.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U428	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U429	Thank you. Good waitress, can you explain in more detail what led to the decision that only four objects, not three, five or six, would be entered in the ranking? Unfortunately, I don't get it very well. I still don't understand, being a member of the Committee on Culture myself. What arguments were behind this, and how did the Commission reach such a decision? More generally, why four and why only four?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U430	[[Remote connection]] Yes, that is a very good question, it has been asked a lot and in many forms. It has been asked why not just one, big and beautiful, or at most two. The law on cultural capital has then been introduced, which shows that up to two cultural objects can be financed simultaneously. That is why we did indeed hold consultations. I think that everyone in the Committee on Culture is very intelligent, but we do not regard ourselves as building geniuses or economic giants, so we consulted most closely with cultural capital and also with the Ministry of Culture to get the backgrounds straight. The fact that we increased the number of objects to three and then to four was actually the result of budget forecasts. This is a very slippery path and all the time we had rather this fear that neither four nor four would suddenly have much. The results of the vote and the options were such that the four subjects could still fit into the originally envisaged financial framework. As we have repeatedly talked about in the Commission, there can never be forecasts of the amount of receipts, based on a year or a year, but it is bold to suggest that the total amount that can be used to finance these items per year should be rounded at around 9.8 million. There are not so many roundings in real life, but there were 10 million rounds a year to shape the overall direction. Second moment. We've been looking over in '96, '97. It was decided to do something almost before the end of the century, but actually to pay off these items, all the loans and leases that were linked to it [were longer]. Today, it is not the case that the same rooster euro comes into play and is immediately put into play, but, of course, different financial schemes must always be used in the interests of efficiency. Nobody appreciates it too good that the matter started in 1997 will finally be paid in the first half of 2022. Therefore, the limit of why four is maximum and should not be taken as five, six or eight is partly a question of responsibility, or if you want to do so, it is said that there is also a question of madness of magnitude. After all, we could have made a ranking of all 11 of them and said that there are now a series of cultural buildings for the next 80 years. We tried to reach an optimal solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U431	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U432	Dear Chairman of the Committee on Culture, I have a question about the explanatory statement. The explanatory memorandum was drawn up by Commission officials on the basis of documents sent to the Commission by the applicants for the subject matter. However, some extracts lead to a misleading view. For example, in its current form, the explanatory memorandum on the whole part of the extension of the opera house gives the impression that the ERSO and Estonian Concert are beneficiaries and later also the maintenance costs. However, both issues have not been discussed with either organisation. The current wording gives the impression that the extension of the opera hall will also solve ERSO's concerns. But there's really no solution for the concert hall. This was partly the reason why the ERSO and the opera theatre presented different objects within the framework of the competition. While it is understandable that everyone hopes for cooperation, it is necessary to clarify the explanatory statement so that there is no understanding that is not actually true. My question: do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U433	[[Remote connection]] Indeed, we used the documents we had on the table to draw up the explanatory statement. We've received several letters, of course. After a discussion with the Estonian side and having read through the letters of protest, we have come to the understanding (for reasons of urgency the Commission has not yet dealt with it, because there has been no time for discussion in the meantime) that there will certainly be improvements to the explanatory memorandum before the second reading. That's how many things can be solved, these are beautiful dreams. I even told my colleagues that it was about the dream I once had at the University of Tartu, when the university got two apartments on top of all the lecturers and then improved the housing conditions of 22 families, who got down from the attic and so on. Obviously, we had about the same dream that cooperation was more real. Estonia still claims that they are open to negotiations and are trying to give more value to the matter. But unfortunately, the explanatory statement is one-sided, written on the basis of hope and not on the basis of facts. As I said, we will certainly correct this before the second reading and also show what has changed in the meantime.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U434	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U435	Thank you, good manager. Mr President of the Commission. The funding of cultural objects is not in any way outside the general budgetary policy, which cuts from brass orchestras and children's activities. However, as you pointed out, the desire to put concrete money was more than the four objects that were now selected and placed in the ranking. Similarly, the government aims to balance regional development. At the same time, we see that the largest part of the money is still coming to Tallinn. Against this background, it is very unfortunate to note that the Anu Raud Centre, which is culturally important, contributes to education and, in this sense, to the preservation of Estonian culture and has a very small cost number compared to other objects, is also located outside Tallinn. As chairman of the committee, are you working to ensure that the Anu Raud Centre gets the money it needs and can proceed with the project?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U436	[[Remote connection]] First of all, there has been a great deal of criticism about why one way or another is done, but when you break the book of the law, it turns out that the book of the law spells out very accurately what needs to be followed or what needs to be chosen. And as long as the law has not been amended, we will indeed act in accordance with a specific law. I always like your emotionality, it's fascinating and fascinating. But I'm not gonna shed tears right now, because the objects you're gonna pour a tear over are quite a few. There are also things that did not go to this final list and that are hugely important and necessary for Estonian culture. You guys used to refer so nicely to concrete for a while. We have been criticised and said that we must contribute to people, but not to concrete. I agree, but the Commission cannot make people for the money of cultural buildings, but cultural objects can be made. That's part of the answer. Specifically, about the Anu Iron Center. It was an interesting project and continues to be an interesting project. It was presented to us by the Estonian National Museum, not by the Anu Raud Centre itself. One or the other, I had a question about whether this was the project of the Estonian National Museum. If this is a project of the Estonian National Museum, could another major cultural complex, which is not one of these three and which in the first round, in the final round of the previous millennium, already have something to do with [the project]? It all had to be a little bit like a background explanation. But officially, I can only answer to you that we have really been sitting with different people, cultural capital, the Ministry of Culture, I've been in contact with a community of local governments. Anu Raua Centre is one of those that, of course, deserves to be funded, just like all seven out of 11.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U437	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U438	Thank you. Honourable Chairman of the Committee on Culture! You've spoken here for a long time and answered for a long time and, in my eyes, talked yourself in many times. I'd still like to know. You answered the question of Helmen Hunt and also of Riina Sikkut, who expected an answer from you, but that did not come. In fact, it is the coalition that ultimately rules over the hall with its votes, [deciding] who will then receive the money and who will not. My question is the same as what Helmen Kütt and Riina Sikk asked you: do you support the inclusion of Anu Raud's centre on the list? I repeat: do you support it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U439	[[Remote connection]] I've always stayed within the bounds of regularity in my discussion with you, too, and I've never told you that you talked yourself in or out. That's one. Secondly, as chairman of the committee, and what I think about in the dark and under the blanket, I am not obliged to report to you. When you listened attentively, you had to notice that my personal attitude toward the Anu Raud Center was such that this center was sympathetic. However, I am not in favour of adding it to the list, which has already been harmoniously developed, and is, I think, the best list within the limits of the possibilities available.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U440	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U441	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Dear Professor Black! The most important topic of discussion has been the project on this list of objects, which has been discussed for the longest time since the 1980s. This is, of course, a national opera. In the current wording, we are talking about the addition of the national opera, the existing house and its extension, which has already revealed several complications, heritage conservation and so on. In the meantime, new information has now become available, the city hall has received a state aid permit, the Port of Tallinn has offered a building. If, however, it turns out that it is not possible to build this existing building and that it can be done somewhere else, either on the basis of the city hall or the Port of Tallinn, is this decision sufficiently flexibile to be used for the national opera, but in another place rather than in the context of the extension?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U442	[[Remote connection]] This is clear, and so it is well recorded in the regulations that the Committee on Culture does not deal with minor changes to the project after the decision of the Riigikogu has been taken. However, there are certain powers of cultural capital that need to make sure that the solutions are the best. Life, practice, has shown that the existing projects have been changed, but only for the better, not for the worse. The Riigikogu is always entitled to review its decisions, if there are still very serious needs, if there are very serious circumstances. In this sense, Estonia is the most later project on the list. Nevertheless, I stress that a very large part of Estonia's problems, which have been discussed, seem to be resolvable, including heritage protection, as well as previous plans. Even President Päts' head, which had almost to get in the way of this problem, has been dealt with seriously, etc. But a brief answer: if there are very compelling reasons, the Riigikogu can change its decisions until they are realised.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U443	Thank you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U444	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I have one such compelling reason. We remember that on this film campus, where we couldn't put such a little support or shoulder down by the state, investments were now found abroad. Well, he's a little weepy, he could've supported a symbolic amount. At the moment, I have exactly the same [question]. I think so, I don't know how, but this Anu Raud Center, the time and the situation are all somehow so that we can find some solutions there. I understand that we may no longer be able to vote for anything. I don't have a good solution, but I wouldn't want China's investment to come, for example, and then the Chinese are selling our Chips, and we're just looking at the face of crying why we didn't make the right decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U445	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for your opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U446	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U447	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good chairman of the committee! I think it is very important for the protocol to state what the legal meaning of this ranking is, however. I understand from your previous answers that the Cultural Capital Council can later be quite flexible and creative with these objects, but when I read the law, I have the impression that this ranking has been set in stone. For example, as long as Tartu Süku is arguing about the location or Narva Kreenholm is looking for architects with an international competition, the Arvo Pärt Centre in Rakvere cannot do anything. Is my understanding correct? Or what is your understanding? It seems to me that we have so far paid quite little attention to this ranking position for a particular object.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U448	[[Remote connection]] In fact, I do not quite agree, I think we have paid very much attention to this ranking. But that is also what I have said many times, and I have been asking for legal assistance so as not to come up with any laws here as a humanitarian intelligence. Indeed, cultural capital has the right to operational management and, for the time being, as long as there are no compelling reasons to change anything, there is a ranking proposed by the Riigikogu. Then there must be something very important to be able to do something different. On the other hand, those who know finance better than I do say that this is not the way it works today, that two objects will be built in a row and then the third or fourth will come. Obviously, there is something that humanitarians call leasing-like activities that needs to be brought here. As we can see, the debt of completed objects is still being paid, even though the objects are already ready. I told you all the old debts will be paid in 2022. So according to current interpretations given by the people we believe to be competent, viable improvements in the ranking of the work are also possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U449	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U450	Thank you. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! I understand there were more good objects and suggestions than there is money. That's always the way it is. You have also expressed your personal view that you think this proposal is optimal, that you support it and that there are probably no different changes here. I am also very sorry that the film campus and the Anu Raud Center did not receive support. I ask again about the Anu Raud Centre: do you see any alternative means of financing the Anu Raud Centre, even in the context of the state budget? You know the budget for the Ministry of Culture. Do you see an alternative way of financing it in the coming years? And if there were such an opportunity, would you support it and, as Chairman of the Committee on Culture, are you willing to make an effort to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U451	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. That's a very good question, exactly ten, as they say in the target comparison. I've been trying to talk to the local government alliances. Indeed, it is such an amount that it can be said that those who have said why you did so also have a pretty high financial capacity for them. I've invited them to help, too, not just the Ministry of Culture. Helir-Valdor, you know better about this Viljandi local treasury, financial opportunities. I cannot make a promise that yes, it will, because I do not have that competence and authority. But I can promise you what you just asked for and wanted and proposed. I'm doing this job so this thing really goes for life and not death. Without any political striptease: of course, it is close to the heart of many of us, including me. But I could not say, as chairman of the committee, that I want to speak from my heart or not to say anything here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U452	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U453	Thank you. Honourable Chairman of the Committee on Culture! My second question relates to objects that were left out in the first and second rounds. As a member of the Committee on Culture, I remember very well that during the first round we were particularly careful to ensure that these items could also receive feedback, we tried to draw alternative options for them and to make recommendations where cooperation, possible funding could be found, etc. Can you please give examples of how intensively the Committee on Culture tried to find these alternatives to specific sites?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U454	[[Remote connection]] Yeah, I don't even know where to start answering. Indeed, I have personally been communicating, as I said, with representatives of a number of projects as well as with the representatives of those projects that have been excluded. Of course, the Ministry of Culture is still the first lifeline, when cultural aid is needed. I can tell you that in some cases, there was such a bouquet before that, whether support comes or doesn't, we're still building. For example, as I understand it, the Pärnu art building, even though it is not on this list, is still coming. We have spoken, consulted, I cannot say that I have negotiated, because I have no negotiating mandate, but as a 'communication player' as much as I can help, I have talked about and been looking for options to see if, for example, this so-called Nobel Centre of Science, which has already been mentioned, could possibly fit under the support of the EAS, etc. So there's been talk. I guess we're going to continue them with you because, how can I say now, there is no time and energy for some things to come to the final agreement before this bill has been dealt with, however, there has not been one. I want to make it sadder. In fact, also looking at the documentation of the Ministry of Culture, there are a number of large objects that are essential for the state, necessary for our national culture, but not in this project, because this project does not solve all things. It's a big dream or a fairy tale that there's gonna be a project and it's gonna solve all the problems. But one of the tasks of the Committee on Culture is to continue working with others, not only with those [which were in the competition], but also with those that were not in the competition. I would like to draw attention, for example, to the project that was initially to be presented by the joint storage facilities of Estonian museums, to this project of storage facilities. Come on, if there's still a way to tell a person not to take your expensive artifacts to the museum, because there's oven heating and a tree house, but you live in a stone house, you keep it there, it's another place where you need to find a solution, etc. But I went for a long time. I'm sorry! Of course, I have noticed that the questioner himself is also a good person who contributes to the search for opportunities and solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U455	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U456	Good manager! Good chairman of the committee! Recently on television, Anu Raud commented that no one has met him, nor has he been invited anywhere to defend his project. If there were 11 projects in the Committee on Culture, did the Committee on Culture meet some or all? As we know, not everyone was met because Anu Raud says so. Did they meet? How was this decision made? If the applicants were not met, what was the basis for this decision? On the other hand, if the Anu Raud Centre needs 2 or 2.5 million, I think that this money could be found in next year's state budget debate. It's a small number.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U457	[[Remote connection]] It's a very small number for you. As the previous chairman of the Monetary Commission, you really have a wide panorama in mind. They met with all the representatives. Anu Raud did not submit the project, submitted by the Estonian National Museum, Alar Karis, who also took all the authority to present the project and perhaps promised to build it, I cannot say. But all the project promoters met with the Committee on Culture, explained, explained, talked.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U458	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U459	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Well, from what you're saying, it's like the framework of the law would say that there must be exactly how many projects and exactly that amount. In fact, the Cultural Capital Act you have referred to gives the Riigikogu a very wide range of decision-making powers and the list that the Committee on Culture has now proposed could be changed. It is a shame, of course, that Anu Raud has done his life's work and for free gave his collections to the state, but now no two million will be found to build his center. I understand the coalition agreed that the total volume should be about 150 million. Well, didn't the coalition really agree that it could be $152 million, and would do that Anu Raud Centre?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U460	[[Remote connection]] That's a great idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U461	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U462	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Chairman of the Committee on Culture, I also had the opportunity to be on the Commission as my colleague Jaak's White alternate. I also have a question about one important detail, and it links with Mr Evgen's question. Yeah, 150 million we had that amount, and we discussed how many objects we could have. If I now round up these four objects, their sums of 40 million in Süku, 15 million in Kreenholm, 16 million in Arvo Pärt and 29 million in addition to the opera house, it will be exactly 100 million instead of 150 million. Was that 150 just a notional amount or something else changed? You've changed a lot of things, I wasn't there all the time, but it's obvious here that we haven't used up so much on these objects.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U463	[[Remote connection]] I can't find out all the numbers so quickly, probably the amount of Estonia is considerably higher and certainly not 29 million. But what's going to hatch from here? It seems to me that the great hall of the Riigikogu can really do a very good job, but that is the task of the large hall, still a higher decision-making power. It is likely to be a well-suited amendment to include Anu Raud's center. Come on, let's go!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U464	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U465	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! My question concerns the Paide Theatre and Concert Hall, which was left out and did not pass the gauntlet. I remember that in "good" Soviet times, there was also money to promote regional projects. This is one of the most important cultural stamps in Central Estonia, visited by a great many people, not only from Järvamaa, but also from all surrounding counties. What became fatal in making this choice to Paide's theatre house so that we would know next time to avoid these mistakes when submitting an application?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U466	[[Remote connection]] The Paide Theatre House project qualified for repair and reconstruction work. Indeed, it was not the most convincingly justified that it was a nationally important symbolic value. But the reason was actually something else. About the same cry for help that we're falling apart, there were so many. Paide was one of them. As I said before, we also looked into what the legislator was thinking, if he even made up the idea of building important cultural objects at national level. We also tried to build on the will of the legislator of our time, because as long as no one has submitted a new will and said that everything that exists should be repaired, or as long as the Riigikogu does not make a new large grant to renovate all the important cultural centers of decomposing counties, it will remain outside. I almost said the sentence that poverty is difficult to share, but that sentence must not be abused. So I tried to explain. A specific answer is difficult to say. We very much hope that the Ministry of Culture will continue to work, his needs will be further mapped, he will present his wishes to the state budget further. After all, it is the task of the Riigikogu to tell us what matters of culture fit into the state budget and that some may not fit. That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U467	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U468	Thank you, Mr President of the Commission. I'll come back to your report for a second where you pointed out that when this process was in phase one, the corona came on, and a great deal of depression took hold. You brought such a comparison that there were thoughts that you might have to move to Vanemuine. I have a feeling that with the Reform Party becoming a government and the budgetary strategy of the new country, the situation has gotten even worse when we look at it from the cultural side. Children will be deprived of the opportunity to attend an interest education, orchestras will be shut down, not to mention making higher education pay, and the completion of development monitoring. In this sense, I do not know how you feel as chairman of the Committee on Culture, but I feel that this situation is in some ways even more hopeless. But here's a constructive question: does the Committee on Culture have any preliminary analysis, or do you intend to ask for it, what is the possible timetable for carrying out these objects, so that you can really appreciate the sequence that has been discussed here?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U469	[[Remote connection]] Yes, we have talked mainly to the Ministry of Culture and cultural capital. As for the first half of your performance, which wasn't a formal question, but maybe even more intriguing, when you ask me how I feel, I say I feel lousy. I feel the crappy way of feeling because, in a way, don't shoot me now and tell me that I'm politically insecure, it was easier to live during the consultative period, because then Moscow was responsible for everything. Right now, I am constantly feeling collective guilt syndrome because culture, education and science are not doing as well as I would like.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U470	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U471	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I'll try to find some solutions. Leo Kunnas brought here this fast mathematics that 100 million is at this point on these objects, 50 million we have as if we have money on which we can decide. Now, if someone says that the object is naturally getting more expensive, it will, but maybe there's co-financing. And not all the objects will go off with a big bang, yet one will be finished first, then the next, the next, which means that during this time the construction prices may suddenly fall, maybe some more ecological material will come, which is much cheaper, maybe we'll do some house with zero energy, i.e. it's cold in winter and hot in summer. Maybe we can snatch 2.5 million from there to the Anu Raud Museum. Would that be conceivable?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U472	[[Remote connection]] Yeah, that's the same question for the fourth time. I threw the ball, I'm not saying it's you, it's us back. The Riigikogu procedure provides for amendments. If we find this consensually, and I think it is possible to find consensus on this point, at least this is what the questioners are looking at right now, then fire.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U473	Thank you. Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U474	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, As a cultural person, I know about Estonia's space constraints, and I will not deny it. As a lover of Tallinn's city picture, as a conservative, as a lover of the sprat profile, I do not like the planned addition of Estonia, because it can be seen that today's architecture, especially the additions, has failed. You said there wouldn't be a dresser, but on the one hand, we can already see how a dresser named Solaris was built unsuccessfully, too distressingly close to this theater. I think this extension is gonna stall the city. I've been addressing the heritageists with my problem. Looks like they don't give a shit. Recently, the architect, specialist Ignar Fjuk, said that such an addition cannot come. But we say we can.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U475	[[Remote connection]] Yes, in some ways I am also a little bit more optimistic about modern architecture and about ambition, dreams and the ability of creative people when they are given the opportunity to express themselves in the field of architecture. I have seen what has happened to the world - famous old theaters, whether in Italy, Germany, Austria, or even in St Petersburg, where Maria's theatre is. There are really different solutions. There are those where we, a good questioner, can shed tears together, are those that have succeeded well. A priori to say that again comes the dresser I really hope it is not necessary that it does not come. It was also a question of perhaps taking the theatre out of this area at all, because maybe it has its heritage values underground. By the way, I know them pretty well myself, and I can bring you some card material, some of which may not have been seen by anyone, Svenska Riksarkivet, etc., where there are things that they are very well on, but that is not the subject today. And what was another difficult thing, that was to get the theater out of there, but then there's gotta be another way, oh, we've got another 30 million here that's going to take the theatre out, and so on. The Commission tried to find the best of the options available. The kind of thing that everyone is happy to hear, at least I have experienced it in Tartu, never comes, that everyone is satisfied, that there is always someone else. I have loved to say that in 1797 the city of Tartu was fiercely opposed to the fact that someone insane wanted to make a university in Tartu again. But then it turned out great.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U476	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U477	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear colleague Aadu! I will simply clarify, in addition to my previous speech, that I took these funds from the explanatory memorandum to our own draft and added only the part that was asked for by the rooster, and that I did not add to the opera house the cost of special works, furnishings and technological equipment, because I remember from the Commission that it does not fall under the law and that it cannot be put there. That's why I put 29 million in there. It was just an explanation of where I took that $100 million. Just here with the material we have ourselves. Thank you. I don't have a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U478	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good Leo! I listened very carefully to what you said, said, and spoke. I was not paying attention to what is an exact number, but to whether it was possible to add a small and very sweet and important object to your goal. This idea may seem to bear fruit. We will discuss and talk, and when the suggestions for improvement come and, once again, if they find the support of the hall, it must be added here. It's that simple.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U479	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U480	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I listened to your answer to my question about Paide's theatre and concert house, and I had one thing to do. You made it very clear that yes, this is a county object that needs to be repaired here and there, but we are still focusing more on building these important national cultural buildings. Perhaps there are two Estonias: one is what is, let's say, in larger centres, like Tallinn, where new objects need to be built, but this other Estonia, this rural area, does not matter at all. I am very disappointed by this approach, because I remind you of one sentence that as long as you live your village, you will also live.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U481	[[Remote connection]] I've sung a lot of this song, so we can sing together. The main thing, however, with regard to Paide's cultural palace, is that, by ranking all the projects submitted from their influence on Estonian culture and the stage of preparation of the project, Paide's cultural palace stood ahead of many things, including those which we also appreciated very highly. I admit, for example, that there were two very good projects from Saaremaa at once, and no one tried to exclude them because of the fact that ah, some kind of Saaremaa or a puddle or something. Substantive values were assessed. The only excuse I have is that if it had been said that you would share everyone and share a great deal, the Committee on Culture would have jumped out of luck.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U482	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U483	Thank you. Good chairman of the committee! You have referred to this somewhat, but could I ask you a little bit to clarify to understand what hopes and expectations are about cooperation with the Ministry of Culture? As we know, this was not discussed in an interesting way or has not been discussed in any way, but the chairman of the Cultural Capital Council is by law the Minister of Culture. In fact, in this whole process, my good colleague, the Minister, would have expected some position that I have not seen taken, either through ministerial officials or through a minister who is also chairman of the Cultural Capital Council. But it is nice for you to comment on whether there has been any such luck or vision from that side, not that it would impose an obligation on the Committee on Culture, but, on the other hand, whether there are any more concrete arrangements for these other important objects...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U484	Time, Indrek!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U485	Does the Ministry have a plan for the objects on this list?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U486	[[Remote connection]] There is such an interesting thing in the Committee on Culture that Reuben Kaalep drew attention to in a debate yesterday. No, it was a good colleague, Jaak White, who said that Black often closes the meeting by saying that it is not a point, but three points, which means that the process will continue. Indeed, in the stories of all these cultural objects, we try to make three points. But, of course, we have received explanations from the people of the Ministry of Culture, their assessments, their opinions. After all, this process was in full swing during the previous government, so much of the work was done. Once again, with a heavy heart, we listened to what was still on the list and what had to be done. We've been in constant contact with the Minister of Culture, at least the chairman of the committee. But all these times that we've asked to speak to the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry has decided who it's sending us. We will not impose compulsion on ministers. The Chancellor of the Ministry of Culture has been mostly present at our meetings. I'm not going any deeper now because there are a number of things I'd like to ask Indreku for advice, because you know the side of the kitchen well and maybe you can give very good advice on how to move one thing more effectively.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U487	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U488	[[Remote connection]] Thank you! Chairman of the Committee on Culture! The question to be clarified once again on these footnote projects. You mentioned that they have the opportunity to apply for money from other funds and other sources of funding. Does this also mean that the Committee on Culture has given them some kind of blessing or a letter of recommendation, so that when they apply for other funds, they also have an additional argument as to why they could be given money elsewhere because they have been recommended by the Committee on Culture? The other half of this question: if it still turns out that one of the objects chosen cannot be realised for any reason, whether it is because of plans, heritage conservation or whatever other subjects, is the money going to some kind of footnote project or because it is one less object? What happens if one of these four projects cannot be realised for some reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U489	[[Remote connection]] Unwary circumstances can be about two dozen. I think if something like this happens, we'll come back to the subject. The Riigikogu has the competence to review and supplement its decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U490	Thank you. No further questions, we can go to the negotiations. Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U491	It is a great pleasure to welcome the Riigikogu in Signe Kivi. Your wish was to have three more minutes. You have eight minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U492	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, 25 years ago, on 5 November 1996 Kaljo Kiisa and Tõnu Tepandi submitted a draft decision on 11 September 386 on the construction of the Estonian Academy of Music, the Estonian Art Museum and the Estonian National Museum and its deadlines. The first building of the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre was completed by the prescribed deadline, but only in 2019, Kumu was opened in 2006 and in ERM there was a change of location and project, and the building was built almost ten years later from the decision of the Riigikogu. Point 2 of the draft decision at that time deserves attention. I quote: "The financing of the construction works will be determined on the basis of this Decision by the annual state budget law, bearing in mind the financial possibilities of a given budget year. The Government of the Republic has the task of seeking the financing of the construction works mentioned in the Act outside the state budget and of seeking the assistance of international organisations and foreign countries. " It was this task that, when Kumu was built, the finance minister Siim Kallas and Chancellor Margus Allikmaa of the Ministry of Culture came up with the idea of finding additional sources to fund cultural objects. On 13 March 2002, the Riigikogu passed the Gambling Tax Act, which stipulated that 46% of the proceeds of the tax will go to cultural capital and 64% to cultural buildings. An additional source of funding for cultural buildings was created, in addition to supporting culture already functioning through cultural capital. On 9 October 2002, the Cultural Capital Act was supplemented by Article 11 (2) (4) of the Act: "The Cultural Capital Council distributes the amounts received on the basis of the Gambling Tax Act in accordance with the ranking of the construction and renovation of important national cultural buildings, approved by the Riigikogu's decision, while supporting up to two objects at the same time." The previous one was only a brief view of the history of building cultural objects with the support of cultural capital. Today we have a draft decision with 387 key cultural objects. How did the Commission arrive at this list and this ranking? In the course of the nearly two-year consideration and hearings, have these objects considered the importance of Estonian culture as a whole, encouraging cooperation between cultural areas, regional justification, beneficiaries and beneficiaries of the cultural object, potential costs, co-financing and partners, the cost of further maintenance of the object and its carriers? Yes, 30 proposals were received by the Commission by 30 August, and indeed, the public sittings on 2 and 3 November gave an overview of the presentations of 27 sites. Of these, each member of the Commission had to choose the 10 projects most satisfying the criteria and the pre-selection order of 11 objects, four of which are before us today, as the law states. Is this choice right and fair? Has it been public enough and professional enough? Is the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu even competent to make such choices? These are the questions that will be answered by our decisions today and tomorrow. "When politicians share money, culture weeps," wrote Priit Hõbemägi on 5 May in the article "Skylla and Charybdis new cultural buildings and detailed planning." But it has also been said, and perhaps even the answer to the above article has been given: "If you make a difference about heritage conservation, it should be a large public object of national importance. " It also says: "The Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu is an institution of which the public knows little: who belongs to it, what does it do, etc. There is already a feeling that politicians cannot represent a wider picture, that they are linked to their political outlook and their region. "The last two quotes are from the 30 April Sirb editorial discussion group "In anticipation of the new cultural house." Yes, indeed, it must be said that passionate discussion and confrontation have been about two objects, the joint building of the Tartu Art Museum and the city library and the addition of Estonia. The public debate on other objects has remained rather modest. The Committee on Culture had a legal framework for processing the draft and did not include the initiation of a wider social debate. It is possible that this Commission agreement needs to be amended in the future, as well as the law itself and the criteria for sites. However, an impressive public presentation on the spatial needs and visions of the near future of the various music organisations was already held in EAMT in December 2019. It was initiated by the musicians themselves. An in-depth analysis was also sent to the Commission in February 2020 by Daniel Raudsepp, then head of the Tallinn Art Building, the Deputy Chancellor of the Ministry of Culture, who compared investments in culture and sport over the last 15 years. The drawing of the field of art, especially the lack of contemporary exhibition surfaces throughout Estonia. Thus, almost 80% of the total investment in museums, sports, theatre and broadcasting was allocated to 2006 to 2020 and only 0.09% of the total investment in the arts over the same period. Would decision-making and discussions benefit from a country's longer-term view of cultural development and infrastructure, a vision of our, possibly changed, cultural consumption habits in the future? Sure. Unfortunately, the Estonian state does not have such a cultural policy overview today. However, I am sure that, prior to the introduction of preferences, each member of the Commission thoroughly studied all the projects submitted and listened to his internal cultural bell, recognising the importance and historicity of the decision. 25 years ago, the draft decision was 386 in favour of 57 members of the Riigikogu, no one opposed, one abstention. Yes, even then there were doubts and questions. We can read about them in the verbatim report of the sitting, and afterwards we know that none of the objects mentioned in the decision arose without problems. But hopefully there will be no members of the Riigikogu in this Chamber who would not have been proud of the values and spirit of EAMT, Kumu and ERM and have been part of them. Today's session of the Riigikogu was registered by 90 delegates. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I call on all members of the Riigikogu to support the draft. I will finish the Tartu Art School in Pallas with the slogan "The future is a work." Ladies and gentlemen, we can shape the future. Let's do it together! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U493	Thank you. I'm asking now... I'm sorry! I will now give the floor to the representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia during the negotiations in the form of a remote session. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U494	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I'd like to start with a poem. This poem, or perhaps at least a few lines of it, is familiar to all of us: "Whoever wants to like must crawl," "yes" saying "no" must think about what the other wants to do, You have to wear chains and thank me! / Must wear infinitely many more, / must feel how he breaks his mind, / must bow down to the gold for the pre-- / must weep with a smile yet. And if he doesn't want to, he doesn't want to, he doesn't want to! It's a cold life for him to enjoy. And now he still remains unchanged, / his love of truth unhinged, / one of the two must now be born: / he must now rise, or fall!' Why did I read that poem? Because when Estonia was built, the author of this poem, Juhan Liiv, was such a poor man that he had nothing to give but his jacket. He gave me a jacket, and the jacket was accepted with gratitude. I think it's so symbolic. In the context of today's debate and this draft, I would like to say that we are now burying all the differences and disputes and, in fact, mostly very well-argued reasons why one or the other or a third, or any of the objects that are currently excluded from the list, would not deserve to be built, would not deserve support from gambling tax money. Of course, most, at least most, if not all deserve it. But now the decision has been made, and let's move on. Let's give up more than a jacket. We give away all the money we have to take, and we do something that remains that deserves our culture. I very, very much agree with Aadu Black, who said that with this money we can't produce more people, but buildings, cultural stamps, we can make it with money. It's often called a kind of disgusting tone, that it's concrete casting, that it prefers construction to humans. But it's not that simple. Indeed, we do not make culture without these resources. Having been a member of the Estonian Council and being an indirect member of the Estonian Council, thanks to Helle-Moonika, I know what their everyday concerns, problems, hopes and needs to improve conditions are. I am therefore delighted that Estonia is among these objects. I recall that Maestro Neeme Järvi is, I cannot say exactly, ten to fifteen years telling us how we need a new, modern, representative hall where we can actually promote our very good music culture, perform music, give an incentive to interpreters, give an incentive to visitors to come to Estonia, because here is the hall that deserves them. I think it's a great decision. I am very, very pleased that Narva Kreenholm will receive the money. I visited Narva about a month and a half ago. I went to see Kreenholm, too. Well, this thing is unhappy, and yet it is one of Narva's kind of symbols, one of the pearls of Narva's long history, in natural, architectural, and location. It needs a resurrection. Moreover, I believe that Narva as a whole, as Estonia's border security, if the beginning of Estonia came from the east, it would be worth us reconstructing Narva's old town, at least to some extent, to rebuild the old, most beautiful baroxe city in Europe, which was built in the Swedish era as the so-called eastern capital, so that we can restore it to some extent. Because we have everything: photos, blueprints, street plans and a model. It's a pick-up thing. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U495	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U496	The most controversial was Tartu Süku. I understand the people who protect this park area. At the same time, as a historian, I would remind you of what a beautiful classicist city of heart was in Tartu until the destruction of World War II. Of course, we are not restoring this classic beauty there now, but we would restore a street line that is understandable to the shoreline of the Emajõgi River, which is understandable from the point of view of the city's functionality, and leave a certain amount of park aside. So I don't think this is the worst solution, although I understand that the Tartians are very clearly divided into two pages here. But that's the decision, and I wouldn't want us to fall into some kind of ginkgo syndrome, and that's why we're not doing anything that can be done right now. Let's not miss it! I think history thanks us for doing it anyway. And finally, Arvo Pärt. Arvo Pärt has one center, but since he is a raccoon and the town of Rakvere, the people of Rakvere want to appreciate the mark, existence and creation of this world-famous, perhaps the most famous Estonian at the moment, I say it is not a wrong decision, it is a good decision. Several other subjects were also mentioned in the course of the speeches. Yeah, dreams go to heaven and back, but these are the objects in which an agreement has been reached. Let's not swing our fists after the fight, let's approve of those decisions. New years will come, new money will come, new objects will come, new decisions will come. Life goes on. Let's do what we've agreed on. Our group supports this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U497	I ask the representative of the Social Democratic Party Group of the Riigikogu for a speech chair, Eduard Odinets. Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U498	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached a historic moment. It is up to us to decide what are the most important objects for Estonia's cultural and ritual space, where we can invest the money collected through our cultural capital together. It is not that we do not make similar decisions in which to channel common money annually in the context of the state budget procedure, although here too the possibilities of members of the Riigikogu have been significantly curtailed over the last few years, but this particular decision of the Riigikogu has an important symbolic meaning and weight. I would not go into the discussion at the moment whether the solution agreed in 1994, according to which this decision is in the hands of the Riigikogu, complies with the principles and practices of 21st century government. Let it remain for future discussions. But now to the decision. To say that I'm satisfied with the process and the outcome would be a lot. Since I joined the active team of the Committee on Culture in half the process, some of the basic things remained unclear to me, even though I did my best to find out. Selection criteria. The Committee on Culture has agreed to give priority to buildings that are important for Estonian culture as a whole, to ensure the continuity of Estonian culture, including national culture, and to the development of the cultural field as a whole, and to encourage cooperation between cultural fields. In addition, there is the aspect of regionality. Looks like very good principles. The problem is that all 11 final rounds of objects meet these criteria. Otherwise, they wouldn't have made it to the final round. But how now? How can we measure that one or the other building is more important than the other, what will contribute more to the development of Estonian culture, which less and on what basis do we claim it? These things were not agreed, and so the subjectivity of the members of the committee came into play. It's not my way of deciding things like that, but that's how it was done. It is still a mystery to me why we choose to build only four cultural buildings, not three or five, for example. Our budget is not limited. There is no limit to the time limit for using the funds. Why limit the number of buildings? If you wanted to limit something, it would probably be wise to limit, for example, the budget within which we are making a decision. This would provide an opportunity to find opportunities for smaller and smaller budgeted objects alongside large and resource-intensive buildings. One of the objects that missed the opportunity, remaining the honorable fifth, is the Anu Raud Centre with a total cost of 2.6 million and the expected necessary support of 1.5 million euros. This is an important project of heritage culture, which is also cross-cutting. By quoting the members of the Cultural Capital Board: it is a sectoral integrator. The object can be put to work right away and done very quickly. The Social Democrats firmly believe that Anu Raud himself, his creation, his commitment to Estonian culture, his contribution to the past, including financial and material, is worth getting a development leap with the support of cultural capital. This, frankly, insulting mistake, leaving Anu Raud without the support of the state, needs to be corrected. We will certainly make an amendment to this. For me, the list of objects that raise questions is still itself, or rather its importance and importance. The law states clearly: "The Cultural Endowment Council distributes the amounts received for the purpose of cultural constructions under the Gaming Tax Act in accordance with the ranking of the construction and renovation of important national cultural buildings approved by the Riigikogu decision, while supporting up to two objects at the same time. " According to the ranking and at the same time two objects. I'm reading from here that the ranking we're confirming is extremely important. This means that as long as, for example, objects in the first and second rankings argue about the location, settle accounts with heritageists, seek additional funding, etc., you cannot go to the third or fourth object. The cultural buildings that have been selected are currently of a very different level of readiness, and therefore the ranking can put in a very difficult position those objects that are already ready to be invited to the booth. It seems to me that the Committee on Culture has not given enough attention to this aspect. Here, too, the Socialists have an amendment so that the finished objects can begin construction, there is no need to wait for those who have significantly more uncertainty. There are also circumstances that can be satisfied. This is a regional dimension. It is a pleasure that most of the final selection objects are regionally high in importance and meaning. The living environment is one of the important reasons why people leave small towns and rural areas, mainly in the capital and its golden circle. Large amounts of public investment in the capital region will further increase disparities between regions and the pressure to look for a better living environment outside rural areas. The Social Democrats have stood up for reducing regional inequalities in the selection of important national sites and are pleased to see that most of the members of the Committee on Culture agree. Although there could be even more of this regionality. I refer to my earlier words at the Anu Iron Center. Ladies and gentlemen, We are expected to make the best historical decision, as I mentioned at the beginning of my speech. Let us, ladies and gentlemen, make sure that this is the best thing for Estonian culture in today's conditions, so that it does not fall under the road roll of the next coalition, and that is the kind of decision that we can proudly say in 15 or 20 years: we did! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U499	Thank you. I ask the representative of the Isamaa Group of the Riigikogu speech chair Viktoria Ladynskaya-Kubitsa. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U500	Honourable Riigikogu! It is on behalf of the group that I am speaking, and not on behalf of [does not] express my personal opinion. However, it is a great pleasure that today we are really dealing with a historic decision. I had a very sympathetic speech by Signe Kivi, where he listed these historical facts. I will then continue because I think that there are a number of technical things that need to be repeated, which have been done last year or this year. The Committee on Culture decided very clearly and unambiguously to propose to the Riigikogu's plenary that four objects be designated as the following cultural buildings supported by cultural capital resources of national importance: the cultural centre of the heart of Tartu, the cultural quarter of Narva Kreenholm, the Arvo Pärt Music House in Rakvere and the addition of the current building of the national opera Estonia. In that order, these objects also went into the bill. This is the choice of the Committee on Culture, that is true. However, there is also the logic of its coalition and opposition in the Committee on Culture. If certain agreements have been reached in the coalition, that is also reflected in the outcome of the vote. The great decisions of the country are always political decisions. So this decision is clearly the face of the coalition. However, the procedure was designed as far as possible to mitigate all risks. One sure victory for democracy is roll-call ballots, so the minutes are public, everyone can watch who voted in the Committee on Culture and ask why so. About the Factology competition. The call for proposals was announced last February. Proposals were expected for buildings that are important for Estonian culture as a whole, contribute to ensuring the continuity of Estonian culture, including national culture, and to the holistic development of the cultural field, and encourage cooperation between cultural fields. That's what we agreed on. The proposals also requested the regional justification of the building and its potential users and participants. The appointment of national cultural buildings was asked, where possible, to be accompanied by an estimate of the estimated cost of the works, information on potential co-financing and partners in addition to cultural capital and a clear vision of how to organise further maintenance of the completed building. In the light of the special situation that has hit us, the deadline for submitting proposals was extended and the Committee on Culture received a total of 30 proposals by September. There was an analysis of the proposals and a request for more information, and all interested parties were met at public meetings. By the end of autumn, the Committee on Culture selected 11 objects that entered the second round. In my opinion, the process was transparent and accessible to the public. Many candidates introduced their plan in addition to the Commission in the public. The vote then took place in the Committee on Culture. As agreed in the Committee on Culture, each member of the Commission had four equal votes, i.e. each member selected 11 of the objects that had gained his attention. After that, the votes were counted and the first four were selected from which candidates had become the most votes. The members of the Committee on Culture then voted once more between the four selected objects in order to set the ranking. In that order, the objects were included in the bill. So why did they form the same line of tension? Just to be able to read the will of the majority of the MPs. This can be accepted or not, however, the majority of the members of the Committee on Culture have decided on precisely this order. This means that the details of Tartu and Narva objects will be very quick. In essence, according to the law, up to two objects can be financed at a time and so the first two can be moved forward in the coming year. It is important that those who were left out are not regarded as losers either. I'm asking for a little extra time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U501	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U502	In the case of smaller proposals, the Committee on Culture looked for opportunities and pointed out where the aid could be obtained. Some objects that are large and left out should not wait for the next 15 years until the queue reaches them. It wouldn't be fair. Where there's a hurry, you gotta act fast. This does not depend solely on the state and on public funding. Municipalities have an important role to play, such as the largest local government in Estonia. How can I support a film campus? What to do with the city hall, how to finance it or cooperate with the ERSO? Quite a number of objects, which unfortunately were left out, are precisely cultural buildings of national importance. I very much hope that this discussion will continue, even if we decide what are the first items that should be financed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U503	I ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Estonian Centre Party Group Marko Šorini. Please! Extra time, eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U504	Good chairman of the sitting! Good ambassadors and transmission monitors! The Committee on Culture, together with the organisations involved, has done a great job and has selected the best four out of the top candidates for important national cultural buildings, which amounted to 30. These include, according to the rankings, the cultural centre of the centre of Tartu, Narva Kreenholm Cultural Quarter Manufaktuur, Arvo Pärt Music House in Rakvere and the addition of the current building of the National Opera. The previous speaker was right. The choice is the face of the coalition. Better yet, he is the face of the two coalitions because the original choice was made during the previous coalition, now the choice then during the present coalition. A democracy like that. The fact that most of the candidates were not caught up has caused both offense, frustration and disappointment. But it's inevitable. At the same time, it must be acknowledged that the large number of projects submitted refers to the diversity and good vitality of Estonian culture. We have ideas, and we have people who want to put these ideas into practice. The Committee on Culture agreed from the outset not to start financing small projects all over Estonia. The objects that will be funded must have a major impact on our entire culture. The Committee on Culture has analysed, evaluated, compared and made its choice. I confirm that all the candidates had the opportunity to prove their suitability and that the Commission has thoroughly analysed the pros and cons of each item. In making our choice, we had in mind the importance of buildings for Estonian culture as a whole, the promotion of cooperation in cultural fields, the impact on the region and regional balance. We also took into account potential users and beneficiaries of the building, expected costs, potential co-financing and future maintenance. The choice was made democratically. Do we suddenly not like democracy anymore? The questioners touched on a number of items that were deprived of funding. I too regret that neither of the two projects submitted from Pärnu received funding. I'll stop at a bit longer on the selected cultural buildings. I believe you will agree with me when I say that the most marked is the addition of Estonia. This is illustrated by the controversy that has arisen. What should be done with Estonia has been discussed for 75 years. Estonia, which was also the first home to the Founding Assembly, or the predecessor of the Riigikogu, needs to be built first and foremost for the benefit of the Estonian audience. As our society has evolved, our culture has evolved and audience expectations have grown accordingly. The National Opera has been operating in a room with drama theatre acoustics to this day. An extension would allow building of a hall with acoustics and technical possibilities corresponding to the musical theatre today. It's no secret you have to go through a lot of stages before you design it. First of all, compromise solutions need to be reached with a number of authorities on the technical parameters of the future addition and on many other matters. As a history enthusiast, I am very pleased that the Narva Kreenholm Cultural Quarter Manufaktuur also managed to get on that list. We will be able to restore part of the old spinning factory buildings on Kreenholm Island. It has to be said that in the Estonian context, this is the largest historical industrial complex and additional work unit that has ever been established in our territory. In my heart, I hope that one day, of course, you could look at your former textile factory complex, which before Kreenholm was the largest industrial complex in our region. By establishing a cultural quarter, we can open a unique, architecturally and culturally valuable urban space to all people and introduce the heritage of the past. The sign is that it will be the easternmost cultural quarter of the European Union. I do not think I am exaggerating when I say that this will be an important geopolitical support point for the development of cultural cooperation between Europe and Russia. The investment is profitable for Estonia and supports the city of Narva's efforts to reach the world's cultural map and, at some point, to apply for the title of the European Capital of Culture. As noted earlier, Arvo Pärt's name does not require a wider introduction in the world. The music house named Rakverre brings a state-of-the-art concert venue and hopefully takes the local tourism sector to a new level. Arvo Pärt is considered the most famous Estonian in the world and the composer who spent his childhood in Rakvere has a strong personal relationship with the city. It can be used very successfully in the best sense. It will be a multifunctional building that offers opportunities to organise seminars, trainings and conferences alongside cultural events. Now from Tartu. The cultural centre of the centre of Tartu is an object that is important for all Estonian culture, as the conditions for hosting world-class cultural peaks will be created in southern Estonia as well. So to speak, Süku significantly increases the number of participants in culture, as the new centre collects more than 800000 visits per year. Based on the experience of both Kumu and several other institutions, the number of visitors to museums per month increases up to 10 times and library visits double. I consider it necessary to stress that in 2024 Tartu, together with South Estonia, the city of Viljandi and the city of Pärnu, will hold the title of the European Capital of Culture and the new cultural object in the region will not attract visitors from others, but will all win. Good ambassadors! I believe that these four objects are necessary for Estonia and, despite the majority of applications being rejected, I call on you to support the choice. Finally, culture is not just a combination of glass and concrete. The content is given to all these cultural stamps by people. Let's not forget our culturalists, but that's how our culture survives through the ages. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U505	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 387. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 2 June at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the fourth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U506	We are going to the fifth item on the agenda: the third reading of the draft law amending the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure and the Traffic Act initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs. Do you want to negotiate? It's what you want. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask Urve Tiidus, representative of the Reform Party Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U507	Respectables! At first, I would like to say that this law does not change the world, but the world has inspired itself to do so. The law amending the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure and the Traffic Act reflects in a creative way the effects of ever accelerating communication and haste on our traffic behaviour and trying to control this constant haste. There is, of course, a need for restraint in order to reduce the risk taking on the roads. The alternative and innovative solution for positive effects on traffic behaviour is the same draft calming down. The draft started a brief test on Estonian roads by the Ministry of the Interior last year, when a new tool was tried to control speeders in cooperation with the Police and Border Guard Board. In particular, instead of paying a fine to passengers, it was offered to immediately choose a 45-minute rest stop. By supporting the draft today, we are giving the opportunity to formally implement this promising method into practice. Yes, the police will be able to direct the speeder to continue driving by the road for 45 minutes and, in the long run, perhaps to continue to act safer on the road, both for themselves and for other passengers. Just as people are different, different measures will have different effects, as our committee chairman said. The imposition of a fine on speed limiters does not always produce the desired result and the options are welcome. However, I would point out that the choice of a calming stop cannot be relied upon by those who are at very high risk. In the course of the Commission's procedure and involvement, the details of the law, the right of appeal, technical needs, the possibility of proof were clarified, unless the speed-over can wait 45 minutes, and so on. The draft and amendments received unanimous support from the Committee on Legal Affairs. The time dimension in this law can also be spoken of in terms of the effectiveness of the infringement and the subsequent leverage. The effect is considered by the theorists to be the more effective the more immediate the sanction is. In this sense, a stopover in controlling traffic behaviour is at least theoretically a good method. Which one of us doesn't know that time is money. Its author is Benjamin Franklin, the great 18th century. If the alternative cost is generally considered to be economics, then also in traffic behaviour, the driver is unconsciously doing these calculations often, with an à la race 20 kilometres per hour faster, I arrive seven minutes earlier, and vice versa. So the alternative cost in the context of traffic behaviour represents a potential loss of revenue for an individual when he chooses another behaviour instead of one. Perhaps when this law comes into force, it may be too much time to buy, but the police may find themselves losing more time. And compared to the loss of money and the penalty: the penalty money can be earned back, but it can't be earned back. This draft has received unanimous support from the Committee on Legal Affairs, which was also the initiator, as well as from two readings in this Chamber. Yes, today we are giving the green road to this innovative alternative so that it can be put into practice and that our roads will be a little safer again. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U508	Thank you. I would like to ask Jaanus Karilaidi, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, for a speech chair in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U509	Ladies and gentlemen, Good manager! I'm going to go over 216 cores of the bill. First of all, I would like to thank Urve Tiidu, who was in charge of the draft in the Commission and did so very masterfully during all three readings. The draft introduces the possibility of using a single measure of restraint. The measure is intended to affect those who have exceeded the maximum permitted speed of up to 20 kilometres per hour. With the introduction of this measure, the ADR operator will be given the opportunity to direct the person after the suspension of his vehicle to the area for a specified period of time to wait for the journey to continue. A person aiming to calm down must wait 45 minutes with the vehicle before he/she is allowed to continue moving. The police will have the right to decide, when the infringement is fixed and when a short procedure is initiated, whether to impose a fine on the person or to exempt the person from payment of the penalty if the person agrees to comply with the terms of the sanction provided for in the law. This will make it possible to assess whether the person who was the subject of the infringement would in the future be subject to a fine or a sanction. If the person accepts the sanction, he or she shall be given a decision in a short procedure stating that he or she will not have to pay a fine if the sanction is enforced. If the person accepts the sanction but does not comply with it, he or she shall be informed that he or she is obliged to pay the fine provided for in the short procedure. In all cases, it is ensured that a person can appeal to the courts. The primary incentive among alternative traffic-related leverage activities is this measure because the number of traffic offences remains high, and it is important to respond to it in the most effective way possible precisely in the event of the first and least serious breach. Relaxation will therefore create another possibility to influence the person's traffic behaviour and compliance with speed limits at an early stage, when the violations committed by the person and the mistakes made in traffic behaviour are not yet so serious as to lead to a more severe sanction. It is an indicative, proactive and educational measure. Special thanks to Henry Timberg and Veiko Kombusaar of the Ministry of the Interior and Markus Kärner of the Ministry of Justice. Amazing but true: all five political parties represented in Parliament agreed on this draft. Still green, it relaxes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U510	Thank you. I don't see any more calls. I will close the negotiations and start preparing for the final vote. Can we go to the final vote? I will put draft 216 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U511	With the result of 88 votes against and no abstentions, the draft law amending the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure and the Road Traffic Act, initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs, has been adopted as 216 laws. The fifth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U512	Let us move to item 6: The draft law amending the Family Benefits Act and the Employment Contracts Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the third reading. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Priit Sibula, representative of the Isamaa Group, for the Riigikogu speech chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U513	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, It's a bill that has a pretty long history. It began during the time of Prime Minister Ratas's Minister of Population Solman. This was to come to the first reading of the large hall on 20 January, but since the government had changed in the meantime, the Committee on Social Affairs decided to withdraw it. But this law has become even better because it does not solve any major and complete problems, but the issues that are important to a very large number of target groups (these are from three areas) are now resolved by this draft. In the original version of the draft law, the payment of parental benefit was amended in such a way that for mothers who have become unemployed in connection with COVID, this period would not be included in the calculation rate of parental benefit, but would be excluded. It is beneficial for families who have a child so that this system does not work against them. The second issue, which came in and is very sensible, concerns family benefits for children aged 16 to 19. If payments are made at the beginning of September or August, it is not yet stated in the education system whether these students will continue their education. If so, these families are entitled to family benefits if they do not do so, they are not entitled to family benefits. In reality, students may have started studying, but the system does not yet see it, so in the meantime, compensation is lost. This problem will be eliminated. The subject, which also came in, is those unhappy families in a difficult situation that happen to have a child born dead. As the rest of our society, we support these families at this difficult moment to overcome grief. The Employment Contracts Act is also amended so that the father can take a break and overcome this difficult situation. So in any case, the beauty of long made has been ripened and finished. All these target groups are very specific and are very important solutions for them. So we support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U514	Thank you. I now give the floor in the negotiations in the form of teleworking to Siret Kotka, representative of the Central Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U515	[[Remote connection]] Good chairman of the sitting! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! It is very important that we support families further under the conditions of the corona epidemic, and this bill will do so. Every child born to the Estonian state is very important. We need to keep and support families so that, because of the deterioration of the economic situation or the corona crisis, there is no delay in having children. There are many among us who, a year ago, when the corona crisis began, lost their jobs and had to register as unemployed. This law offers a solution to those who were pregnant at that time. In order to ensure that their parental benefit does not become lower, the period of unemployment is withdrawn from the period for which the parental benefit is calculated. This is particularly the case for women aged 23 to 37 years. If this bill is approved in the Riigikogu today, it will enter into force retroactively from 1 January 2021, which is the beginning of this year. Another very important addition is that, when this law enters into force, family benefits are paid to the parents of a stillborn child. Parents who have suffered a great loss. In this emotionally difficult period, I think that any additional national support is only welcome and should therefore be supported. A third important step is that family allowances are paid to young people aged 16 to 19 at the beginning of the academic year. Yes, this change is very practical and vital, but absolutely necessary. This will also provide families with a stable income in the form of child support. I have a request for everyone to hold the children and families of Estonia together and to support this bill together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U516	Thank you. I would like to ask the representative of the Estonian Reform Party for a speech chair in the Riigikogu. Good luck Hill, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U517	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! In order for more children to be born in Estonia, it is necessary to value every child, both those who have already been born and those who are still being planned. We also need to keep and help families who have suffered the loss of their baby before it is born. The amendments to the Family Benefits Act help to achieve these objectives. The Coronal Crisis is a woman's face. Frontline workers are predominantly women. Most mothers stay home with their children. Unfortunately, in times of crisis, pregnant women are also at greater risk of becoming unemployed. We can avoid reducing the parental benefit of these families in order to make the period of childbearing and later being at home less worried. And that's what we do. If a pregnant woman becomes unemployed, the period of unemployment is not taken into account when calculating parental benefit. This is a family benefit measure aimed at ensuring that future mothers who have lost their jobs in the crisis feel more secure that they can manage financially if they stay at home. It is important that, because of the fears of crisis, no child would be born and families would be free to devote themselves to waiting and raising the baby. It is currently a time-limited crisis measure in force between 2021 and 2023. If, after analysing the impact and effectiveness of the temporary measure, it becomes clear that this is still necessary, then, I think, it is worth considering and discussing how to design a long-term and sustainable new solution that would provide assistance to the parents of the future who have lost their jobs. But this is already a new debate that we can have in the future. The second and I would even say that an emotionally larger change is support for the families of stillborn children. If I could wish now and someone could do that, then I would like no family to go through such a tragedy: losing an unborn child. We cannot take away the pain of loss from these families, but we can provide help and security at a difficult time, give these mothers and fathers time to grieve, without rushing and feeling the tension of how to cope financially when there is no strength to do everyday activities and work. Allowing birth grant, reduced parental benefit and paternity leave gives these families this time and help. A third, but not least, change is an increase in the payment of children's benefits by one month for children aged 16 to 19. The reason for the change is practical. By September, the Social Insurance Board has not received the information of all children who have gone on to study and therefore some families will receive child benefit later. In order for all families entitled to receive child benefit to receive it in time, it is necessary to extend the payment of the allowance. Our families are so strong and eager to have children when the weakest family is strong. This package of changes shows how diverse the needs of our families for help and support are, so it is important that we take into account all families, their differences and their needs in terms of public services and support measures for families, because it is only in this way that we have more children and more happy families. Let us support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U518	Thank you. I would like to ask the representative of the Social Democratic Party for a speech chair in the Riigikogu. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U519	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! When Riina Solman, Minister of Population of the previous government, reached the Social Affairs Committee, this draft was a very important point. The aim of the draft was and, fortunately, today also to support the well-being of families with children and thereby, among other things, to change the basis for calculating the amount of parental benefit in time. According to the draft, the period for calculating the amount of parental benefit is excluded from the period when the person was registered at the unemployment fund. This is a very important point. It is confidence and the knowledge that the future parental benefit will not be lower because, in the meantime, we were hit by the health crisis and then by the economic crisis. On 17 March, the new government already came with further changes and this made this draft even better. The Social Democrats are certainly very supportive of this draft. The first additional change introduced was the granting and payment of family benefits, birth benefits and parental benefits to a parent whose child is still born. Indeed, this concern and grief are great. Fortunately, these parents are very few, but they are all very important and this part of the target group for family benefits is vulnerable. Good colleagues have already said a lot about what this measure will bring. I would like to add that it is even fair and fair that parental benefit is paid retroactively when a child is still born. A father whose child was still born after 1 July 2020 shall be entitled to the father's supplementary parental benefit retroactively without the use of paternity leave. In this case, it is possible that the measure will act retroactively. A mother whose child was born still after 1 July 2020 and who is entitled to birth benefit under the Health Insurance Act shall also be entitled to parental benefit retroactively from the date of birth of the child for a consecutive period of 30 calendar days. This is very important on this point. Indeed, in addition to these two changes, there is a change in the payment of family allowances for the 16 to 19-year-olds. It also reduces administrative burdens, parents' concerns and tensions at the beginning of the school year. This will ensure that on the right time, 8 September, this allowance is credited to parents whose children continue their studies. There is no need for it to be certified by means of a document, this grant shall be credited to the account. These changes are very important. If we all supported the previous draft together here, I am quite convinced that this bill is also supported by the Riigikogu hall as a whole. Children are important, children are very, very important, every child counts. I do not want to end this beautiful speech very sadly. It would have been wonderful if the draft concerning the payment of care benefits in the event of illness to the parent who returned from parental leave had not been calculated at 80% of the minimum wage. But unfortunately, it didn't find any support in this hall. So once again: this draft we are happy to support. I hope that this soon-to-be bill will ease the livelihood of both children and parents. This is really very important, especially in the economic crisis following the current health crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U520	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We will begin the preparation of the 300 final votes on the draft. Can we go to the final vote? I will put a bill of 300 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U521	With the result of 85 votes against and no abstentions, the draft law amending the Family Benefits Act and the Employment Contracts Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as 300 laws. The sixth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U522	We will move to the seventh item on the agenda: Third reading of the draft law on the amendment of competition law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 325. Do you want to open negotiations? No, I don't. Let's start preparing the vote. Can we go to the final vote? I will put draft 325 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U523	With the result of 83 votes against and no abstentions, the draft law amending the competition law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws has been adopted as 325 laws. The seventh item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U524	Let us move to the eighth item on the agenda: Second reading of the Bill 364 on the Amendment to the Act on the Ratification of the Convention for the Protection of the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea Area, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask Timo Suslov, Member of the Environment Committee of the Riigikogu, for a presentation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U525	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Act on the ratification of the Convention on the Protection of the Marine Environment in the Baltic Sea region is before you at second reading. I will give you a brief overview of what has happened between the two readings. The draft Act amending the Act on the ratification of the Convention for the Protection of the Marine Environment in the Baltic Sea region was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 5 April. The draft provides for two changes. The draft removes from § 2 of the Act amending the Act on the Ratification of the Convention for the Protection of the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea from the scope of § 2 of the Act on the Amendment of the Convention on the Protection of the Marine Environment of the Sea, the introduction of the "Marine of Lake Peipsi-Pihkva and the arrangements for the treatment of oil and petroleum products on the Narva River" and the organisation of the implementation of the Convention. As a second amendment, § 21 is added, according to which the Convention will be implemented in Estonia by the Ministry of the Environment. The first reading was closed on 21 April and the deadline for amendments was set at 5 May. No amendments were tabled within this period. The Commission discussed the draft in preparation for the second reading at its meeting on 11 May. I will also read out procedural decisions and proposals. The committee proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading, including by 19 May. The Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U526	Thank you, good waitress. I'll make sure there's no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? There are no negotiating requests. Let us begin the examination of the amendments. They cannot be reviewed because they have not been submitted. The position of the commission is that the final vote on the draft 364 should be carried out. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Dear colleagues, I see there's been a procedural question. A microphone for Urmas Reinsalu, please. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U527	[[Remote connection]] ... Did my vote procedurally count or not? There was a signal problem in the meantime. If it didn't, I'd ask you to read my [voice], I was also in this convention...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U528	I ask Urmas Reinsalu: do I understand correctly that you were talking (this association was not very good) about draft 325 at the moment? Let me get this straight. I'd like to get back to Urmas Reinsalu for a moment. Mr Reinsalu, we do not hear you, but if this was about the previous point and it concerns draft 325, I can say that the system shows that you have expressed your wish there and have voted in favour. But now there's the next procedural question. Raivo Tamm.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U529	[[Remote connection]] Thank you! I have the same problem as Mr Reinsalu. I wanted to vote in favour, but it seems to me that my vote didn't go down.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U530	Thank you. Mr. Raivo Tamm, you did not specify what you are talking about, but we have actually passed this point. When we talk about item 7 and draft 325, the system says that you did not participate. Okay, but we're on bill 364 now. We were exactly in the process of preparing the vote, so let's get back to it. Procedural question, Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U531	Thank you, Honourable Manager. I didn't understand your answer to Raivo Tammele. When Raivo Tamm said that he had taken part in the vote and voted in favour, but you replied that the system showed that he did not participate, there is a problem that needs to be resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U532	Thank you. But there was a break after that vote. We usually have this rule that in remote sessions we have asked for at least one or two people from each group to be here to report [the problem]. Nobody told me at that point that anyone had a connection problem. We have decided on this point, so there is no way I can go back to this point even if I want to do the best. But I think that, as a result of your information, we will try to take these breaks, if there are votes, even longer than we do now, so that the members of the group can provide information to their fellow groups. Okay. The commission has proposed that 364 drafts be put to the final vote at second reading. I will put to the final vote the draft law amending the Act on the ratification of the Convention on the Protection of the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea Area, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 364. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U533	Dear colleagues and representatives of the political groups who are currently in the Chamber! I don't see anyone's hand right now, so this vote has taken place. As a result, with the result of 79 votes against and no abstentions, the Government of the Republic has initiated the draft Act amending the Act on the ratification of the Convention for the Protection of the Marine Environment in the Baltic Sea Region as 364 laws... Procedural question, Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U534	Thank you. I'm at the Riigikogu house, but I've received a message from Riina Sikkut that she doesn't have a normal voting system at the moment either.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U535	Dear colleagues, I interrupt the final vote on Bill 364. Now, if these systems don't work, I think it's best to take a break for the head of order right now. Let's take a break for five minutes, then everyone can go over their system. So, break five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U536	Good fellows! Dear Riigikogu, the chairman's break is over. Now let's try one test, and this test is called presence control. Good fellows, we'll do a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U537	Good fellows! 88 members of the Riigikogu registered as presently absent 13. So let's go to another test. We are at the eighth item, we are at the second reading of Bill 364. The commission has also proposed a final vote at second reading. Let's start preparing the vote. Can we go to the final vote? Thank you! I will put Bill 364 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U538	With the result of 91 votes against and no abstentions, the draft Act amending the Act on the ratification of the Convention on the Protection of the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea Area, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as 364 laws. The eighth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U539	We will move on to the ninth item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Emergency Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. I give the floor to Urmas Reinsalu, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U540	[[Remote connection]] Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! This is a very complicated law and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs deepened it in several sessions. As mentioned at the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but also in the Chamber at first reading of this draft law, we also addressed the National Defence Committee to find out what the opinion of the National Defence Committee on this draft is. It is recalled that this is a cluster proposal concerning the establishment of a national reserve centre on the basis of the current liquid fuel reserve agency and, on the other hand, the transfer of civil crisis management policy from the Ministry of Internal Affairs to the State Chancellery. The National Defence Committee presented a highly recognised and comprehensive assessment. In short, it can be said that, in its observations, the Committee on National Defence pointed out that cross-ministerial coordination, the leading role of the Prime Minister, is necessary. This law is expected to provide for this, indeed, by not mentioning the Prime Minister specifically. However, the Committee on National Defence stressed that the clarity of the emergency management mechanism requires serious attention. It should be stressed that the transfer of competences also requires the existence of competent officials and necessary capacities in the State Chancellery. The National Defence Committee has raised a number of questions, including the need to analyse whether the Rescue Board really needs the competence to implement the specific national supervision measures provided for in the Law Enforcement Act in order to carry out a large-scale evacuation with the Police and Border Guard Board. However, the Commission acknowledged that in essence the proposed amendments to the draft law were necessary. The National Defence Committee discussed but did not reach agreement on a number of issues. For example, the members of the National Defence Committee, Mr Kunnas, and Mr Laneman, felt that the draft would create an ineffective governance model for crisis management. The members of the above-mentioned Commission also considered that the planned crisis management cannot be collective and that the area of emergency law cannot be extended to prepare for a threat to national security and constitutional order. In addition, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs received a number of opinions on these issues. The Chamber of Commerce considered it necessary that the Emergency Act provides for food production and food safety as a vital service. The association of pharmaceutical wholesalers pointed out that representatives from different sectors should also be on the board of this stock centre in an analogous way to those of fuel companies in the liquid fuel reserve agency. The oil association sent a letter to the Commission stressing that the other economic activities of the stock centre to be set up would not be subsidised to fuel consumers by means of a reserve levy on liquid fuel. The Commission invited representatives of these institutions to its meeting, which looked at specific amendments tabled by members of the Riigikogu. From the amendments tabled by the members of the Riigikogu, if you look at the table of the amendments, first, the EKRE Group tabled amendments, the substance of which is that it wishes to maintain the current competence of coordinating the crisis management of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Therefore, these amendments are essentially intended as a cut-off amendment to the draft law in order to maintain the existing legal regime in general. The Isamaa Group has also tabled an amendment whose core is to exclude the transfer of competences of the Ministry of the Interior and other ministries to the State Chancellery. In addition, the question raised in the Commission's proposal from the National Defence Committee related to the government's request for special rights to the Rescue Board, such as search and detention, to carry out a large-scale evacuation. However, the Commission unanimously took the view that it was not justified in this draft to extend the individual competences so as to facilitate evacuation to the Rescue Board. The Commission did not support any of the amendments proposed by these two opposition parties, but, in consensus, supported one of the Commission's amendments aimed at eliminating the granting of additional powers to the Rescue Board from this draft law. During the debate, when looking at the issues that arose, a huge number of specialists had been invited to the meeting of the Commission on 4 May. The Commission carried out extensive work, with both public officials and representatives of the interest groups I referred to, who had also raised their concerns in writing. During the Commission's debate, the authors of the amendments were heard and the opinions of the National Defence Committee were heard again. Mr Kunnas presented the views of the members of the committee expressing a different opinion in the Committee on National Defence and the views of the majority of Mr Raidma's committee on this matter. With regard to the issues that emerged in the wider debate in the Commission, it can be pointed out from stakeholders that, as the initiator of the draft of the State Chancellery, the Chamber of Agriculture indicated that food production and food safety should also be a vital service. The Secretary of State, on behalf of the Government, said that the government has given ministries tasks to ensure food production and food safety. It must be made clear whether this is a vital service or not. Hence, the government wonders whether food is necessary or whether food is not vital to human functioning and existence. But in this draft view, the government does not plan any changes in the light of this issue. Then there was also a hearing with the representative of the oil company concerning the definition of the Council. The position of the representatives of the government is that the members of the council will be appointed by the nomination committee, which will follow the principles set out in the law. In conclusion, no representative of the so-called reserve holders is intended to be appointed to that meeting in the event of the formation or transformation of this company from the liquid fuel reserve agency. As regards the indication of whether the future economic activities of the Estonian Stock Exchange Centre will be cross-subsidised through a reserve payment of liquid fuel to be collected from fuel consumers, amounting to EUR 5 million per year, the government representative, Mrs Talving, stressed that the new spare groups are not subject to a back-up payment obligation, but, in the case of new spare groups, the financing of stocks is made from the state budget. For this purpose, co-financing is planned for the Estonian Stock Centre since its launch. As I pointed out, the authors of the amendments presented the amendments they had tabled. The government representative did not support these amendments. At its second meeting, the Commission also discussed the draft Act amending the Emergency Act. The fundamental issues of crisis and crisis management have also been overcome. Here it became clear what the EKRE amendment wanted to delete, namely the first question that now also the attack on constitutional order, let us say, the coup d'état and the issues of state of emergency will be governed in the future by this law as a 'base' or, in the preparatory phase, by the Emergency Act. This provoked a very serious controversy within the Commission. The state of emergency is still a very specific state of threat to constitutional order, but the emergency in general is still linked to an epidemic, a natural disaster or a disaster, i.e. a completely different nature. Consequently, with this law, we must recognise that some members of the Commission saw this border with a very clear special regime, where there is an attack against constitutional order and a threat of constitutional order, we are beginning to blur by nature. Secondly, there was also the question that we are now trying to change certain individual competences in the middle of a crisis, one emergency situation. Is that appropriate? All the more so since there has been a national defence law in Parliament for a long time, which provides for a more holistic approach. The Secretary of State, on behalf of the Government, confirmed that precisely so, this is the repair of one facet, followed by much more extensive changes to regulate this issue. Although the Commission did not support the amendments tabled by the EKRE Group in order to define the Estonian Stock Centre as a specific implementing rule of the law, the Commission's minutes also highlighted and included that when we talk about the design of a new state-owned company from the surface of the Estonian Liquid Fuel Supply Agency, it should definitely be called the Estonian Stock Centre. I hope that the same attitude was felt by the representatives of the government who admitted this will of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. As a summary, this was the course of discussion on this draft law. In fact, if you point out the essence of this draft law, it is a package of two separate themes called Brezhnev. One issue is the creation of a reserve centre and the other is, as I said, the transfer of the legal or, say, general coordination of an emergency from the Ministry of the Interior to the State Chancellery, which concerns the preparation for crises and the implementation of this policy. This is certainly accompanied, in addition to the relocation of some people, by different results in the administrative practice of Estonia, including the fact that the State Chancellery will prepare laws, produce laws. It is unclear who will then report these laws, whether these laws are being passed by the Minister authorised by the Prime Minister or by the Secretary of State, or by the Prime Minister. The controversy in the Commission was also caused by who is actually in charge of these things. The draft law speaks of collective leadership and says that the whole government is in charge, but there is no definition of personal political leadership responsibility, which was also highlighted by some members of the National Defence Committee in their expertise or opinion. There was undoubtedly one round of questions in the Commission that raised concerns about the fact that we will be prepared for this under the Emergency Act in the event of an attack against the state of emergency, against constitutional order. We have just said that if we think back that the emergency situation is not announced because it would be bad, and we have an emergency situation, we can also say that the normal or, say, the emergency situation is actually a state of emergency. These are the issues that arose in the Commission. The members of the Commission were generally good in my opinion. I think everyone contributed to their views. And the most important thing is that we were able to make decisions. We never had any conflict of role, nor did we develop such an internal vacuum or a crisis in the work of the Committee on Management. So I think that the chairman of the committee did his job in full satisfaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U541	Thank you very much for this thorough review. Good waitress, there are some questions for you. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U542	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Urmas! I also thank you for this long and thorough review, but I still did not understand some of the things that I ask you to go over in order to understand exactly. I remember, at the time of the first reading, there was a great deal of talk about an eternal emergency coming to us and trying to give us these tasks. This is because, when this crisis began, Prime Minister Ratas, in the previous government, was prepared to lead the crisis and a special situation was declared, but the current government does not want to do so for any reason, and that is why we are creating an eternal emergency situation. And in the context of an emergency, it was said that since there is no one who wants to be held responsible, we will have a room or a group that will run it. Did it now become clear before the second reading ended what would happen with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U543	[[Remote connection]] Yes, thank you! I think, like you, that as head of emergency, Ratas managed this crisis well a year ago, made the necessary decisions, and prevented greater risks and harm to society and public health. The question is not even that we are going to have such a permanent special situation with this bill, in my opinion, or in this context, an emergency situation. In particular, when we look at the amendment of the Emergency Act, the Emergency Act speaks about, I recall, crises which are not the result of deliberate man-made activity, but are still linked to accidents of an accident nature, I quote § 1 of the Act: "This law applies (The Code of Situations will be applied in the future without any special circumstances. (U.R.) in preparation for a threat to the security and constitutional order of the state, in times of increased readiness for defence, state of emergency and martial law, in so far as other laws do not provide otherwise. " In other words, when we were talking about having an emergency situation, we certainly have this indication that we are in a situation of emergency, not just emergency, but also emergency or martial law. This, of course, is also grotesquely linked to what we remember about the current emergency when there were demonstrations that there was a threat to constitutional order or not. According to this bill, the threat to the basic order alone, its preparation in the future, will take place under the Emergency Act. As far as this collective governance and its organisation is concerned, indeed, the law defines that the development and implementation of the country's crisis regulation policy will be led by the government in a collegiate way. True, Mr Secretary of State pointed out that he would interpret, on behalf of the Government, the Prime Minister, that he would delegate powers, and, if necessary, the collective involvement of other people. But the text of the law is indeed indiscreet that the crisis regulation policy will be dealt with by the government as a collegial body, as far as the members of the government are present in a particular gorilla.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U544	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U545	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! I've got a lot of questions, but I've only been given two, so I'm gonna try to compact them somehow. Question: what do we have with the previous emergency law that we worked on here a year ago, now it's so bad? At the time, society was relatively blue-eyed, they didn't know what was. We could have put all these changes in. But now, a year later, there were changes. Is this from any country experience? We know that on a case-by-case basis, it is discovered that, oh, it would be necessary in that law. Did the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also discuss that if there is a visual need to declare an emergency, but this is not happening, who is the other institution that will announce it? Such a social room may not come to a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U546	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. The question is that there is indeed a very wide variety of concepts in this law, both in the current law and in the draft. We are now talking about developing a country's crisis regulation policy. So there is a policy on how to regulate crises. He must have been expressed in the form of so-called manuals or command tables and instructions. The next important thing now is that, if there is a policy, how the crisis is regulated. Once the crisis has occurred, crisis management has already been implemented in the implementation of the crisis regulation policy. It's actually the text of the law. It is true that government representatives said that the text in law should not be interpreted in such a way that this interpretation should be quite different in a so-called definition, and that this interpretation should mean that it is precisely the preparation of crises that is being dealt with, that is, resolution, prevention and possible 'preparation' for the functioning of crises. The resolution of crises still remains at the level of all existing institutions. This, in turn, brought up a huge complex of problems in the Commission, since it is precisely in the area of crisis management that the previous corona crisis, the ongoing corona crisis, has given many examples of where this crisis has been managed at very different levels. It may be discussed whether the chain of command should be of a clearer nature by law. So, in my opinion, this does not reflect the opinion of the majority of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which is favourable to the fate of this draft. When you think about whether we are creating more clarity in the middle of a crisis in the current situation, I think there is a risk that we would rather open new boxes of ambiguity. And in itself, as I was referring to, here this concept, the so-called government-centred resolution concept, is taken, let's say, as one sleeve of this garment, which was this national defence law. But if you take away one slice, you're going to incorporate some other issues, there's no doubt there might be some very wide-ranging interpretation questions. This issue was seriously and openly on the table in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U547	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U548	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. Please, Urmas, you and I were sitting on that committee together. Now, let's talk a little bit about the impression you had when you were talking about developing a country's crisis policy. If you remember, the Secretary of State said there would probably be a new base law coming up by autumn that would unite and incorporate all these different regimes, these are the Emergency Act, the Emergency Act, the National Defence Act. Then there will be a new law called the law of preparedness. What impression did you have in the Commission, basically such a big change, currently temporarily replacing the Ministry of the Interior with the State Chancellery, is there even a need for it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U549	[[Remote connection]] Now, again, for the sake of regularity, I must say that Paul correctly referred to the Secretary of State, who, on behalf of the government, I quote the protocol It is drawn up as an example of Finland's respective law, which there bears the name "valiuslaki" in Finnish. This concept should be completed by June this year and the law itself should be completed by the middle of next year. Indeed, this is a partial or very minimal change in this logic, if there is such a majestic reform programme to harmonise these special crisis regimes. And if previously, during the previous government, it was solved by the National Defence Act, such a holistic approach was to how to resolve crises, then now, during the new government, the solution is indeed proposed in the Emergency Act. In the Emergency Act, we are putting in place a paragraph, as I pointed out, that, through an emergency, i.e. in the event of an unintended, not a human-willed accident, we will begin to resolve the threat of martial law in this regime, of constitutional order. It's basically backwards, of course. It's possible that if you look at the pipe from one end or the other, you might be able to get to the same place. But, no doubt, if it is only the addition of one such provision that the preparation of an emergency situation or the prevention of a military coup, a riot or a coup, takes place under the Emergency Act, it is indeed political for me.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U550	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U551	Thank you. Honourable representative of the Commission, waitress! The Estonian state once had a national reserve of grain. It was stolen, and it was as if they never found the guy who did it. It was decided to amend the law and it was established that there must be a national food reserve, which should be in the Estonian state on the basis of contracts. I have listened to your presentation and I have realised that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has come to a debate that you called such a meaningful debate, whether human eating is inevitable or not, and whether food production is a vital service or not. The government is now discussing whether food production is a vital service or not. How long will the government be discussing it, and how will the law define it, and how can we proceed with this draft? When will the government say its answer, and will it be clear that we will have a clear snot in the law if we accept it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U552	[[Remote connection]] Yes, indeed, the current situation is that the government does not have a position as to whether food production, it is also linked to the consumption of food produced, or food safety is also important for life in terms of vital service or not. The government does not have this position at the moment, as recognised by Taimar Peterkop on behalf of the government. And the government has given the Ministry the task of examining whether food production and food safety are of vital importance or not. The deadline was not mentioned by a representative of the government, so this logic is based on the fact that, if the law is processed in this form, food production and food safety cannot be understood as a vital service and that it is already about the future. This controversy, in particular, arose extremely seriously in the Commission as a result of the representatives of the Chamber of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U553	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U554	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good waitress! I've read the law, and I know it's like the law of stocks, but now I hear from you that it's actually the law of rejecting or preparing a coup d'état. And little of it, Comrade Brezhnev is behind it. You said it was Brezhnev's package. How did he get to the emergency law? And describe to me exactly what concerns the coup. I'm particularly interested in that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U555	[[Remote connection]] Leonid Ilyich Brezhnev was not directly involved in this bill, but the point is actually two in one. They are by nature different thematic complexes. One is indeed to provide a legal basis for the acquisition of state resources or for the so-called regulation that the State can order the maintenance of stocks from private operators. The second is a brief reference to the coordination of crisis regulation. This conceptually looks like the coordination of crisis regulation is intended to be taken to the State Chancellery. Its first dome is that it is like dealing with emergency management. It has been delicately welded to this point that the State Chancellery will therefore be involved in preparing for the arrival of threats to constitutional order in the context of the Emergency Act during the state of emergency as well as during martial law. It must be acknowledged, however, that when it was originally said that this very in-depth information really came to the members of the Commission during the debate, that it concerns only some of the officials who are being removed from the Ministry of the Interior, those who are dealing with crisis prevention and are making leaflets and materials and risk scenarios, it is, of course, an extremely extensive competence that goes to the State Chancellery. [Utilizing] the emergency sign of this pandemic, I would not like to use the word 'pretext', but in this context, the central aim of the Stenbock house is to take the lead in preparing for threats to the security and constitutional order of the state and preparing for this in matters of military and emergency situations. It is particularly important that the politically responsible person is not actually appointed, but is left anonymous, in terms of such a large and wide range of powers. It is said that development is carried out and implemented by the Government of the Republic. This is indeed a matter of note.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U556	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U557	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Urmas, thank you once again for such long and thorough substantive answers! If the President of the Riigikogu would allow me, I have a personal question about this draft. Known three and a half years ago, my home burned down. While under the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases we delegated the police to deal with the tasks of the Health Board, in the case of the Emergency Act, we know that the Rescue Board did not want it very much and was not interested in it. Now we're putting this bill on them, if for any reason it becomes a law, the duties of police and border guards. Urmas, do you know under what law and who will perform the duties of the Rescue Board in these difficult situations? I'd like to understand. Although, the truth is, I was the first to volunteer, but of course it is important that the house was saved because there are professional rescuers who can do their job.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U558	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. With regard to the extensive evacuation of these competences under the Law Enforcement Act, these are personal screenings, searches of things, entrances to houses, curfews, car detentions, detentions of people, that was really inside the bill. The Commission, as I said, unanimously concluded after the debate that it could be plucked out of this draft. We need to look at this law in the context of two provisions. The new law, which is being amended, says that the development and implementation of the state's crisis regulation policy will be led by the Government of the Republic, it is a collegial competence, and the organisation of crisis regulation at regional level will still be carried out by the regional authorities of the Rescue Board. Government representatives confirmed what concerns the immediate actions of crisis management, as well as the fire department and so on. According to the Government, this law does not entail any change in relation to the current situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U559	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U560	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I understand that foot-and-mouth disease is still an emergency, because it's not man-made. But my question: if there is a visually visible state of emergency outside, can the citizens of the Republic of Estonia implement § 54 of the Constitution? And my second question is, as far as these supplies are concerned, that supplies are always needed. Perhaps Peter Ernits is helping me, but I read somewhere that squirrels are also stocking up a terrible amount of nuts, but in general they remember after 25% where they collected something, and they don't remember the others. Otherwise, they might start stocking everything. And I would ask: was it also discussed in this crisis that pet food would be stored in the same way and that liquid fuel would be non-alcoholic?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U561	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. It's a complex complex of problems that you've been trying to open up with the so-called 'noggin' references to a question. First of all, foot-and-mouth disease, this type of situation can still be an emergency, yes. The list of emergency situations, which is confirmed at a lower level, has in itself not been amended at the level of the law. As regards the responsibility of Estonian citizens, there are two things here. It is the duty of the Estonian citizen to be loyal to the constitutional order and to defend Estonia's independence. This is an obligation for Estonian citizens. There is much talk of citizenship as a privilege, but in reality it must be seen, on the one hand, as the political power of citizens in their activities, first and foremost, through participation in elections, but it is also the specific obligations that people have. § 54 (2) of the Constitution states that if there are no other means, every Estonian citizen has the right to object to a violent change of constitutional order. This right in itself means that this definition is important here, that unless other funds are available. Secondly, when we talk about violent change, about the right to own-initiative resistance, it certainly also means the use of force against those who wish to change the constitutional order violently. This right to use force Estonian citizens exist in the Constitution. We discussed this round of topics very thoroughly in the Constitutional Legal Expertise Committee and Märt Rask, former President of the Supreme Court, found in his expert analysis what he did after the Ministry of Justice in the field of defence review that § 54 (2) should be furnished with a reservation of a simple law. The legislator should also provide clearer definitions of what this'statutory' is about own-initiative resistance. As far as the liquid fuel supply and fuel composition are concerned, the liquid fuel reserve agency uses all the fuels that are sold in Estonia and operates here on the basis of the formation of these reserves. This is an ethanol content that I cannot define in detail in terms of the stock level of a particular stock in order not to mislead a good questioner.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U562	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U563	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, manager. Once again, thank you, Urmas, for a very good brief presentation. But another question about the sensibility of that committee meeting. Were you convinced that the State Chancellery is more logical, reasonable, competent than the Ministry of the Interior in crisis management or preparation with politically anonymous responsibility? If so, why, and if not, why?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U564	[[Remote connection]] Couldn't, I'll be frank. I do not, in itself, exclude such a model, such as, let us say, the application of the Emperor's principle in resolving crises. In resolving military crises, we have included this principle that the resolution of the military crisis in Estonia is governed by the Prime Minister, and it must be interpreted in such a way that, by analogy with the head of emergency, the Prime Minister can give his orders and give orders to all public authorities or institutions, regardless of the competence of their peace situation, and then give the final [decision]. It is always important, in the event of a crisis, that someone has the responsibility for final decision-making, as well as the power to realise that responsibility. In principle, this can also be discussed in civil crises. The current situation is of a bumblebee nature, as a legal philosophy category to characterize it in this draft. In fact, as I said, he operates on different concepts. Now the representatives of the government said that no, the resolution of crises will still be governed by those who today lead, who put out fire and so on, but that it is the government that is dealing with the methodological issues of crisis regulation. But if you're reading the law, it's more in my opinion that in the text of § 4 of the law, the concepts have somehow been introduced to blur actual intentions. It's hard for me to operate on these terms because they're of such a similar nature. I quote: coordination of crisis management. The question is, will you now pay attention, two such words, to the coordination of regulation. Crisis regulation, that could be crisis resolution, right, management. What about coordinating it? If I am the coordinator of crisis management, will I also regulate the crisis? Sounds sane to me, I guess on a higher level. The government representatives did not take this view. Next. These words, 'coordination of crisis regulation', the title of this section opens a sentence, I quote: the development of a country's crisis regulation policy. In my understanding, crisis regulation policy is 'general action plans', I imagine, to prevent crises or to resolve them in this failure, would say common sense. And now that these are the plans and the planning level and the prevention level, it's the same thing: "The implementation is led by the Government of the Republic." If we now say that the crisis regulation policy is how it is handled in the event of a crisis, and the implementation of this policy is, in my opinion, the resolution of the crisis, my common sense says. I would like to say once again that, at least personally, I was left with this juggling of terms in a single-phrase paragraph [impression] that there is an extremely large and spacious room for interpretation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U565	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U566	Thank you, Mr President. In my opinion, there has been a complete legal bucket in the process of dealing with this draft. First of all, we have a law such as the Emergency Act, which states the circumstances when there is a threat to the constitutional order of Estonia or if it is eliminated. These grounds and conditions are also laid down in § 129 of the Constitution. Now, in this draft, § 1 (3) removes the notion that the Emergency Act does not regulate the threat to national security or constitutional order and brings it into paragraph 2 that it still applies to it. And here, the most interesting thing is "if other laws do not provide otherwise." However, the law on the state of emergency provides otherwise, because it is the law on the state of emergency that is designed to eliminate the threat. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U567	[[Remote connection]] Yes, a good questioner, indeed, there are a number of questions and problems hidden here. Indeed, it is the wish of the drafter or the representatives of the government that there is such a general, ecumenical crisis resolution model and the preparation for crises, the crisis prevention model, and according to this approach, there is no difference as to whether termic ants are the cause of the crisis or soldiers of the Pihkva Dessant Division; these crises must be prevented by a'similar doctrine'. This will then be done at the State Chancellery in one department, let's say, under the leadership of some people. Now, it is possible that with this universal generalisation power, it is possible to approach the regulation and implementation of all crises. In principle, it is possible to generalise everything so much, but it is a question of how much specificity will remain in this type of crisis regulation and in preventing [crisis] if these regulatory activities have to respond to all situations. A separate question now arises in relation to constitutionality, because the state of emergency is a concept which is also covered by the Constitution, and it defines that only by a majority of the Riigikogu's composition can the Act on the state of emergency be adopted and amended. I think the Supreme Court has taken the view that there is no significance whatsoever, which is the title of the law, if the law in material terms [belongs] to the regulation which the Constitution defines as constitutional or membership by majority vote, then it extends to it. My argument is that once we have brought this section here or the government has brought it, it must certainly also be interpreted as a constitutional law, since this law applies in preparation for the state of emergency and also for the state of emergency. Consequently, we must take into account that all these provisions of the Emergency Act, which is now given to the government in the 'general definitions', and this preparation, will also be implemented in the event of a threat to constitutional order. We can imagine how serious a social situation can be and how serious the interferences of fundamental rights, which come during a state of constitutional order and state of emergency, are, well, still at a time of martial law. In my opinion, given the meaning of the so-called greater source of danger with extraordinary legal regimes, during which, for example, elections are suspended, the realisation of a number of fundamental rights, everything else, I think that this is not overregulation, if we were still trying to define these legal regimes in a separate constitutional law, as has been the case with the constitutional author. [We should not], through the Law on Diseases and Fires, start to deal with [anti-constitutional] threats and war situations, to mitigate these threats.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U568	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U569	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good waitress! During the time of Comrade Brezhnev, the military were working with supplies, and the title was Praporschik. This bill is, above all, the so-called "porch" bill. But what I'm interested in is that you were referring here to a coup and this kind of thing, I think it's connected to section one. These definitions are the emergency situation, the emergency situation, the war situation, etc., but you also mentioned the emergency situation and the coup-like situation. Explain to me where these differences run from and, in January this year, when Kaja Kallas' government was born, was a coup.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U570	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I don't know if I used the word "reign-like." I always meant that the state of emergency was meant to be when a coup was planned, whether it was military or somehow through unrest or something else. But now what is an emergency or similar situation to an emergency, or a situation similar to an emergency, is a special situation, but not a legal status, this legal design was practiced especially during the explosive growth of the corona virus, when there was controversy about whether or not to declare an emergency situation, by representatives of the government. This was completely incomprehensible to me, because if there is one legal regime, this regime must be realised. Otherwise, I think it is a 'law carelessness'. If a situation that takes account of certain legal circumstances takes place, then this situation must be governed by law, which puts clear frameworks and responsibilities in place. In this sense, I do not think that these different legal regimes, which are also exceptional situations, martial law, emergency situations, are not created, say, to hijack power by their very nature, to hold it forever. On the contrary, they are designed to make a very clear distinction between a society in a critical boundary situation and a different model of governance and a normal [in a situation] once this boundary situation has ended. Indeed, our problem lies in the fact that we are now seeking to introduce these steps to a normal situation, and these steps are being taken here by means of "extraordinary" or "extraordinary" tools. This, in my opinion, may lead to unacceptable blurring of these borders. But what happened in January, Peter, you're referring to it, aren't you, is that the Centre Party has left the government? Well, what a coup he was, wasn't he a political turn?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U571	Looks like we've run out of answers. Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U572	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The possession of stocks, including food supplies, is undoubtedly very important in various emergencies and emergencies, but, regardless of the size of these stocks, they are running out at some point. Do these legislative changes also address the possibilities and obligations of the government to book the production capacities needed to restore their food supply and the issue of the procurement and cultivation of raw materials for production? Or, if it is not there, could this law also regulate such matters?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U573	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. First of all, Erki, this is a very sympathetic and intelligent question. This is such an intelligent question that, in its collective competence, the Commission was unable to pay attention to it. Now, as far as the stock situation is concerned, it is obvious that if there is some kind of global or ultimate crisis, it can become very long-term, no matter what adventurous scenario it is going on. And it's still limited in time to use these resources. At some point, they're losing out. So the way in which stocks are re-emerging in such a crisis has not been described in itself. I think that, if there is a situation where we already have food supply hindered, it is in the context of some kind of natural disaster or military situation or some other apocalyptic situation, then either the law on martial law or the law on emergency situations and, if necessary, some form of confiscation or forced labour in such a limited situation must be applied lawfully, in order to ensure that people are fed in a situation where food is already in deficit or when, for example, fuel supplies are coming to an end. There have been fuel crises in the world. The current law on liquid fuel reserves also provides for a situation where, unfortunately, petrol stamps come back and fuel is allocated to ambulances and shopping cars, and then other people will have to be less expensive at that time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U574	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U575	Yeah, thanks! If, now, with this amendment to the law, we introduce a situation in which the Prime Minister directs the resolution of various crises through the Government and the State Chancellery and begins to coordinate the activities of various ministries and agencies, was the Constitutional Committee discussed in order to bring these various ministries and agencies directly under the authority of the State Chancellery in order to avoid such duplication and indirect coordination? All the more so as the National Reform Foundation has also made a very serious proposal, perhaps analogous to or similar to that of thinking and approach. After all, it was foreseen that the country would essentially remain on the side of the executive power by one of the leading Chancellors and that such centralised management would take place. Do you see that this could be discussed, or did the Commission discuss this approach?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U576	[[Remote connection]] Yeah, you could say that a syndrome like that could sneak through here. In itself, when I remember, the more experienced colleagues here remember, he was in fact also during the so-called "transitional governments," he came from the Soviet Union, where there was a very large-scale apparatus at the Council of Ministers, which essentially duplicated or coordinated these sectoral Republican ministries. In fact, the State Chancellery has developed into a small number office serving the government and a government policy planner. These different independent administrative competences have been given away from the State Chancellery, we may now enter this second phase again, but even more extensively, because, as I said, the State Chancellery can also take up the preparation of laws here. This may be a technical change, but it actually has a great significance in the sense of state law, as I explained, even if it is already the reporting of draft laws and the liability arising from them. Now, as far as the powers conferred on the Prime Minister are concerned, this is a bit of an orwellian situation to which I must draw attention. In fact, the government representatives said that the Prime Minister would be given tasks. The Prime Minister gets the assignments. I will now apologise, I will pass on the Commission's debate, and I will certainly do so in the understanding that I felt was there, but certainly not by putting words in the mouths of other people. The Prime Minister is this person, confirmed by the Secretary of State. To open this law, the only person mentioned in this law means, not personally, but by the post, is the Prime Minister. There is no mention in this draft law of the Prime Minister that the Prime Minister should take up any competences or have some sort of independent leadership. Contrary to, for example, as I was referring to, the National Defence Act, which clearly states: the country's military crisis is managed by the Prime Minister. Period. Very specific and understandable formulation. As I said, this stock thing in the constitutional sense is a very technical change and it is rather a logistical decision whether it is reasonable to acquire them and to make certain legal rules. This constitutional amendment is indeed what I said in a highly euphemized definition for me. I repeat: that the State Chancellery will deal with prevention and the Prime Minister will be the central responsible, this mysterious provision will define it and it will then have to be interpreted in the future, I say in the interests of the protocol. I quote once again: 'Coordination of the regulation of the crisis'. Developing a country's crisis regulation policy (Please note the title was "Coordination," the text speaks of development. U. R.) and its implementation is managed by the Government of the Republic. " Now, frankly, I believe that there is certainly legal clarity in this norm, let's say, at least there is breakage, and it can certainly provoke controversy. At least I can give it two, if not more, different principles of interpretation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U577	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U578	Thank you, Mr President. The second paragraph of § 129 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia states that the organisation of the state of emergency is provided by law. We have an emergency law for this purpose, which specifically sets out the conditions and procedures for eliminating the threat to Estonia's constitutional order. Reference is also made to § 129 of the Constitution, [where it is stated] that it is declared by the Riigikogu. Now, however, this proposed amendment to the Emergency Act has again introduced a threat to constitutional order, preparation for it, etc. Isn't there a contradiction in this proposed amendment because, according to the Act on State of emergency, the Riigikogu will decide on it, but the government will decide on it now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U579	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Indeed, I must honestly say that it is possible that these concepts... I mean, it's one big problem in Estonia that important matters of constitutional law are constantly trying to redefine concepts. And there may be great confusion in interpreting these concepts, especially in border situations, as Hegel said. Indeed, the Constitution speaks of the threat to constitutional order, which was correctly pointed out by the good questioner, and also of the fact that when we talk about the military crisis in the state, the Constitution speaks specifically of the [action] in the event of aggression against the Republic of Estonia. You will note that the Emergency Act is engaged in a rewording of the logic of the Constitution. It is under it that this law should apply to aggression against Estonia, but it has been replaced by the security of the state. The Constitution speaks of national security, but in a completely different context, of restricting the fundamental rights of people. In particular, § 130 of the Constitution states that during an emergency or martial law, the grounds for the reservation conditions, two pieces which are competing with each other, are either state security or the second condition is in the interest of public order. State security and public order interests. The public order here has been abandoned again. In short, to be honest, I would point out that it was not discussed in this sense by the Commission either. But this is such a assembled paragraph, it is possible, I suppose, that he is taken from the provision of the draft law on national defence. That could be the etymology. These are important concepts. For example, the restriction of fundamental rights, on which the Constitution states that, in the interests of national security, it is only possible to restrict fundamental rights in the interests of national security in two cases, in the interests of the state's security, during a state of emergency or martial law. The concept of state security has now been brought here into the [context] that the threat to state security will be dealt with by the State Chancellery under the Emergency Act. Well, if we're thinking about the thought fields or the reasonings it brings, that's a strange or bizarre thought for me, to put it mildly. National security. I get it, we have a Defense Police Department dealing with law enforcement or counter-intelligence. But now, national security. We have other police authorities, foreign intelligence agencies, and now it is the case that state security will be dealt with under the Emergency Act in preparation for these threats, and that is done by the State Chancellery. In fact, then, this general responsibility is collective with the Government of the Republic. There is a syndrome for me here, and I really warn you that it is a syndrome to create parallel state administration or parallel command lines that actually concern the constitutional authorities that have to deal with the security of the state and the protection of constitutional order. Consequently, the State Chancellery will also have full right immediately, as it will deal, if we put it into context, with the development and implementation of a state crisis regulation policy under the Emergency Act, which also includes preparing for a threat to the security of the state. This actually means that the State Chancellery must therefore not only have a chain of command and coordination but also have direct information and access to information from all security authorities. These are issues where it can really be said that it is justified in a situation where all these changes are introduced in the hands-on resolution problems of the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U580	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U581	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, After all, this bill is basically a draft to turn political governance back on track. This is a draft that essentially legalises political leadership in a crisis situation...... transfer to individuals representing power structures, to leaders of power structures or to people who have taken authority on behalf of leaders, essentially gives power to the junta in Estonia. [[The connection's breaking up.]] This draft is quite clearly unconstitutional, because the Constitution does not absolutely provide that the country can be run by a junta instead of politicians who have received a mandate from the people. Do I get it like you guys do?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U582	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Hunts can also be constitutional. The question is whether this is appropriate. When we look at the constitutional reform of Chile, which was carried out during the Pinochet, the seven-member junta was, in fact, specifically designated as the leaders of the troops, the highest constitutional body in the country, which had to operate for ten years. And, as we know, in the referendum in Chile in 1989, this extension of the mandate of the Constitutional junta failed. In itself, whether politicians or, in this case, the political mandate and responsibility of the Minister, the Minister of the Sector, are being deprived of his authority to the level of officials, or the reverse situation is that the authorities responsible for crisis management are being handed over to the government, i.e. the politicians, I honestly say that, in my opinion and external observation, the actual modus operandi of this draft, which he will become, I am not able to bite. As I said, the concepts are very spacious, the concepts decorate life or the one who has the competence to formulate these concepts. First of all, it remains collective that, on the one hand, the government is said to be said, on the other hand, in practice it is said to be the Prime Minister; thirdly, it is said to be actually officials of the State Chancellery. I see here, yes, this kind of centralisation logic works. We discovered an interesting thing during parliamentary supervision, which the ERR also wrote about, who remembers that there were lists of frontier workers to be vaccinated on. Well, understand, there were people at the power plant and staff at the grocery store, which groups were defined there. But it was interesting to think that it was handled by the Health Board or the Ministry of Social Affairs or the Ministry of Economic Affairs, but these lists of frontier workers were issued or authorised for a decision of great significance in the context of deficit and also in the competitive environment of companies, which received it [vaccine], was given by a secret department of the State Chancellery, as the national broadcasting had discovered. I think it is important that we in the rule of law do not anonymize our country in any way under the ground, that we do not understand what level and what types of decisions are made in the bodies. And I find it particularly risky to carry out such experiments under such a label of flexibility and operationality, precisely in the most demanding state-of-law demanding and command-chain-clearness situations of state and society.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U583	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U584	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I thank you very much for the educational and thorough answers that have been heard so far. It seems that the Commission's debate was thorough. I'd have a more practical question. The experience of crises, both within and abroad, has taught us that information exchange and practical capabilities are mainly a problem. The capability of an entity does not depend on where the headquarters are physically located. It still depends on the physical capabilities of the unit in the field. And, of course, the exchange of information. It seems to me that there is some kind of alternative management scheme being attempted here, but the capabilities in the field have been overlooked. Do you feel the same way?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U585	[[Remote connection]] Well, indeed, this law states, as regards the organisation of crisis management at regional level, in this case already in the immediate resolution of the crisis, the principle that regional crisis committees still remain in place in order to organise cooperation between the authorities of the executive power. However, the issue of this national crisis committee is, isn't it, that we will be replaced by the government if we take it in that sense? I say once again that the way in which it will be furnished reminds me a little of what Aivar Sõerd has drawn attention to at all, namely the logic of our budget, which has become very, to put it mildly, under the eyes of a legislator with great generalisation, but someone is still making these decisions. I would point out that all the coordination of crisis regulation in the country will take place in the future on the basis of one sentence and that this sentence will be furnished by who can give these orders, i.e. the government, whatever and how he is thinking of doing so, when the development and implementation of the country's crisis regulation policy is led by the Government of the Republic. On this basis, then, [is] and it is not only in emergencies, during the attack on foot-and-mouth disease and termites, but this law and this crisis regulation policy are applied to the state's security and constitutional order in preparation for [the threat], during the war and during the state of emergency. I have to be honest with you, the sections are sinking. There is no doubt that we have more of a legislative prominence in society, but here, in my opinion, one paragraph seeks to essentially reform in such a way that where the real nature of the reform is not described, how it will happen, one sentence seeks to describe a possible change in the meaning of a very substantive responsibility. The strangest thing is that the representatives of the government in the Commission confirmed that no competences will change, that resolution of crises will remain exactly as it has been before. But it has been said here that the implementation of the country's crisis regulation policy is led by the Government of the Republic. If he controls it, leadership will undoubtedly mean the right to give orders and the right to revoke orders from someone under the supervision of the ministry. Consequently, if there is a new level of governance in the implementation of this crisis regulation policy in an area as extensive as the Emergency Act to combat war and coup d'état, I believe that this is a very risky experiment, in terms of legal clarity, which is now ripening here in the shadow of the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U586	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U587	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Urmas! My modest estimate is that there are two ministries in the country who, as an institution or apparatus, can manage different crises. These are, of course, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior. But I'm asking you who's running this bill. Is it the Prime Minister, is this Government of the Republic as a collective body, is it the State Chancellery, or is it someone else? Do you have any clarity in the house?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U588	[[Remote connection]] Well, here I can represent the Commission's position. In the Commission, representatives of the government said that the crisis was managed by those who previously led the crisis. Let's just say that the Health Board is responsible for resolving the health crisis, etc. I honestly admit, when I heard the position of the representatives of the government in the Commission, I think that is precisely our weakest link and the lesson from the corona crisis is that we do not coincide with reality and formal crisis responsibility. Look, dear friends, respectable representatives of the people! I asked the representatives of the government: who is in charge of resolving the corona crisis right now? I was told that this crisis has a single-minded leader. Mr. Reinsalu, have you come from the moon? The health department is running this crisis. But my question is, I'm sorry, why do we hear that on Tuesday the government is discussing restrictions, right, what's stuck, what's not stuck, what to do, what to do, etc. Then it is understandable that, in reality, this resolution of the crisis is governed by such logic, I define, the government. The health department is a very important executive link in this regard; it cannot be underestimated at all. And then there's the Ministry of Social Affairs in the middle form next to it. This is clearly what happened in the issue and organisation of vaccines when there were very different levels of communicatively different inputs. So if you ask who's in charge of the crisis... I mean, it was now the response of government representatives that this does not change the management of crises. Is it really going to be like this legally? I must admit that this is now a question of how the Estonian words or Latinisms are read. I repeat, yes, I'm sorry to point so many times! - coordination of crisis management. What does that mean? My understanding is that this is a regulation of crises at a higher level of governance. It's coordination. A clearly negative view has come from a representative of the government: no, it does not mean regulation of the crisis. The next question concerns the implementation of the country's crisis regulation policy. Well, common sense says that if there is a policy, there are general principles and foundations for some kind of action and for avoiding some kind of activity, and its implementation is already practical realization, or crisis regulation. What else can it mean to implement a country's crisis regulation policy than to regulate crises? But in this, I think, there may be different concepts of how it is interpreted. The representatives of the government attach one meaning to it that it means preventive action. In my opinion, this responsibility, which now rests with the government in this wording, is much, much broader.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U589	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U590	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good Urmas! I had to think during this debate that it was interesting whether the health emergency was still in place or ending. But maybe that's not all that matters. The most important thing, in fact, is how to recognise the crisis that must take action at the moment and use all these possible instruments. Did you discuss this in the Commission? Because if you don't recognise this crisis situation, you can do all sorts of analyses and write provisions into the law, but it's also important that there can be a line of responsibility and a chain of command right now, how things are going to happen. Yet the recognition of this crisis, which often has quite a large number of hybrid elements in a forward-looking way, was this also the subject of the debate?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U591	[[Remote connection]] Such a serious and comprehensive approach to the subject, I honestly admit, was not in the Commission. The right thing is that the list of events that could cause an emergency, on which a plan is being drawn up to resolve them, is, in principle, that this crisis, at least, should mean what this emergency, or crisis, is. I have to be honest, Andres, I like that word. Perhaps this "emergency" is somehow such a stupid, panicky word that in an emergency house, perhaps the word "emergency" would be wise to replace the word "crisis" here. I think it might be more sensible in terms of the Estonian language, because the word "disorder" is somehow more of a word that describes a mental state or feeling. I think we could seriously consider that. But now, since the list of events that could cause these emergencies falls under the authority of the government instead of the crisis committee, the government must confirm all those situations where there is trouble in the house, as well as the so-called general rules that draw up these plans. I'm assuming it's done by a government decree. The government itself will not confirm these situations or these emergency plans. At least that's the logic of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U592	Good waitress, thank you for your answers. No more questions for you. I open negotiations and the first word is Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U593	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good ambassadors! Forza, Flora! Flora leads 3: 0, the first half against Levadia. And here with this good news, I have to say again, see, there's a trophy final on Saturday, we have 14,000 people in A.Le Coq Arena, but you still can't let people in there. But they can go somewhere else. I hope that when the government comes together tomorrow, they'll see if we can relax. But it's hard! That's because you don't really know what we have. The Prime Minister said that we have a substantive emergency situation, which means that it is a normal situation. Then it turns out we have a medical emergency, and now we're talking about an emergency, plus all those other situations. So, I once had a situation that required clarification that, once there was a time, it was time to talk about whether it was really the first time, if it was an emergency for him to be... In the swampy water, these are always the kind of chubby and chubby fish, and it is perhaps not every time that the difference enriches, and pluralism helps, because we are talking about the crisis, and people still need to be clear and unambiguous in terms of information in times of crisis. But if there's a lot of these terms, it's actually going to be extremely difficult for this room decision-making committee who's going to be there for what's there. This may remind me of the time spent in Estonian rock music when, besides having a very cool band name, you had to come up with your own music style. For example, the ensemble Turist said they were neurorock. And that's how those terms came up, until eventually the joke teeth said our band was afterblackbmetalhard. Now, according to the fact that he is not in this situation now or that it is the other, this is already causing a lot of problems in the decision-making process. As we know, all authorities have been playing through crisis management and all these things. These have, of course, been a pleasantly concentrated liquid fuel and, of course, a small icebreaker. Everything was fine on the paper, until it was played out in Tallinn that there is chemical pollution on Lasnamägi. It was not necessary to evacuate people in physical form, but it was played on paper. The result was that 60% of the numbers you called didn't answer. There was someone telling us who we could be responsible for who we have this safety tech, the safety tech is there, the number was given there. Afterward, it turned out that such a number was no longer in use or that the person received the number, but that landline had not been forwarded. But the results were always declared that we actually have everything very good. This part of the supply is extremely strange to me. Now he's just some stock company in Estonia. It's always been good to be there, isn't it? But what's the backup for? Or this thing, I'm not kidding! In fact, when we were declared to be in a very special situation, pet shops were left open. This means that obviously this crisis has gone in some way, because last spring the pet shops were closed, but now they were open. This reminds me of what he was, perhaps the 2009 local elections, when there were potatoes and firewood in Vabaduse Square in Tallinn. And they were not for those in need, but for those in need. Well, who doesn't? However, I still want to say that people need clear instructions on how to handle a situation. However, if these terms are many and someone says again that the difference enriches and this is pluralism, then people want clear identical [guidance]. If we had already announced a state of emergency, I could go on Saturday and watch the Cup finals. Unfortunately, indecisiveness is why I cannot do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U594	Ivi Eenmaal is a procedural question. Please, Ivi Eenmaa!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U595	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. I ask you, as President of the sitting, to explain what is happening here in the Chamber. Is this a medical emergency or what's going on here?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U596	Thank you, good Ivi Eenmaa! We are currently discussing the draft 350 at second reading, namely the amendment of the Emergency Act and the related amendment of other laws. We are currently negotiating and next we will have Helir-Valdor Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U597	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I spoke at first reading on behalf of the Isamaa Group and spoke in greater depth about our party's position on this draft. I'm not gonna repeat myself. I will only say so much that, at first and second readings, this draft has not changed significantly and has therefore not improved significantly. Unfortunately. The same shortcomings that I was talking about at first reading have so far survived. It's with this supply center, like it is. Here, too, there are a number of things that you should do differently and find out. Even the same questions that were in this Chamber today about food supplies and whether food production and food production capacities are also a vital service and should fit within the scope of regulation of the law. Regrettably, today we will probably conclude the second reading of the draft, no more substantive changes can be made. We will adopt the draft amendments and the government will continue to discuss whether or not this is a vital service for food and food safety. Well, the answer is absolutely clear: of course it is. But the bigger problems are with the whole second block on crisis management and transfer of competences. The transfer of the competences of the Ministries and the Ministry of the Interior to the State Chancellery in this form and in this volume is certainly not reasonable. Start to duplicate these activities, find competent people on both sides in a small country and finally coordinate by the Prime Minister and the Government if there are relevant competent authorities, that is not rational and that is also unreasonable. This whole crisis management model is extremely unclear. With these amendments, which are contained in this bill, I believe that the balance of crisis management is being taken away from place, and not better, but rather more vague, unclear and worse. Since the amendment of the Fatherland, which would certainly have greatly improved the draft, has also not been taken into account here, the Isamaa Group has a proposal to interrupt the second reading of the draft 350 so that we can process this draft and improve it in the course of the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U598	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U599	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, manager. To me, the current development in this bill was very amazing. I admit that the EKRE has viewed this law from the outset, by its very nature, even now, in fact, as a positive matter, but this stubborn attempt to keep it in some strange frame that creates anonymity, creates ambiguity, creates blurry, it is almost unacceptable. All the more so when we know quite clearly that there is already a new law of preparedness in the process, or how it had that name. We are now going to make major strategic changes, a few months before this new law comes out. This is really not very rational and sensible. So, in my opinion, the idea set out by Heliri to stop reading this bill in order to at least try to save something is still quite reasonable. So, in my opinion, it does not make sense to go ahead with this law at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U600	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U601	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like three more minutes right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U602	More, eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U603	There are some positive aspects of this law, and I would like to highlight them in the beginning. The first of these is the state's operating margin. Since it will now be created in 30 years after the restoration of independence with the joint efforts of the two governments, it is good and it needs to be improved. In crisis management, specific responsibilities can be defined at regional level, i.e. it is the Rescue Board that is doing this de facto now. This is another positive aspect. The third is that the organisation of large-scale evacuation preparation and execution will be given to the Rescue Board, which is also a positive step forward. But there are also serious problems here. And, of course, where you can see the mistake of defaming, of coming and helping, perhaps we have also made the corresponding amendments here, and now I can thank the good officials of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs who grouped our 16 proposals together for five proposals. However, four of them did not find support in the Commission. Our first proposal concerns that the Emergency Act should not be extended to the preparation of a threat to national security and constitutional order, as it is not a special national law. It is basically a normal situation, because security authorities are anyway preparing to counter this threat on a daily basis and if they want to use supplies or do something else they need, it should also be recorded in the Emergency Act. This has not been done at the moment. This is the first of our amendments, it did not work. I ask you to support it, just like the others. The second, most serious problem is the problem of governance. Effective management in a crisis situation would require the application of the principles of sole management. Perhaps if the Prime Minister had these powers, that would be understandable, but in fact we see that the Prime Minister has not taken these powers. We can also see from this crisis management that when the emergency situation was announced and Prime Minister Ratas also led the resolution of the crisis, it worked. However, after the previous government should have done so sometime in November but did not, and neither has this government, it is actually the case that, in an emergency-like situation, management-like activities are carried out. But it doesn't work well. That is why our second amendment concerns that the Ministry of the Interior should retain the role that it currently has in coordinating crisis management. Throughout the paragraphs we have made these changes. Our third proposal is not substantive, but it was about clarity in wording. This concerned the organisation of crisis management at regional level. We have written down very simply that, at regional level, the Rescue Board is organising crisis management and the Rescue Board is carrying out the following tasks: We also gave him the authority to support the authority in charge of the emergency. This governance is most important because the Rescue Board really has the means of management and the competent staff who, at regional level, can manage any crisis. These clarifications are worded, but they specify, formulate and linguistically improve the provisions of the draft. One of our proposals was also supported. This concerned the mandate of the Rescue Board to carry out a large-scale evacuation. It is clear that he does not need full law enforcement powers there, perhaps there is no need to detain people, to detain cars and so on. There's a whole bunch of competences that would have been given there. The Commission supported this proposal. And that, of course, is what the Police and Border Guard Board is doing, just as they have done so far. Our last proposal actually concerned a drafting and substantive amendment concerning the margin of activity. As I said, we support it in every way, but it's strange that it doesn't say what kind of institution this is, what does it do? Only in this explanatory memorandum could it be found that it is the AS Estonian Stock Centre. It should be stated here in particular that it is a company, AS Estonian Stock Centre, which operates in the area of government of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. In the interests of legal clarity, this could be stated here, although it is argued that good legal practice does not foresee it. I suppose, however, that the law is being passed on to those who obey, to those simple people who are not all lawyers who want to understand which institution in the country is dealing with. That is why we have tabled such an amendment here. I ask the large Chamber to support our amendments and, since they were not approved by the committee, on behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I also propose that the second reading be interrupted. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U604	Now for two minutes, speaking on the ground. Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U605	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I am truly sorry for the debate that was in this Chamber today and for which I was a witness. I therefore take this opportunity, and I would like to put it in the record, to apologise to all those people and experts who are working daily to contribute to our ability to act as a country in crises and to protect our people, even without a weapon. I naively hope that the Commission's representative's mass misinterpretation was due to his [low] knowledge of crises and protection of the population and his lack of understanding. I am also sorry that last year's series of higher population protection courses organised by the Rescue Board could not be held in connection with the COVID, of which opinion leaders, including members of the Riigikogu, could take part and perhaps begin to understand better what we are talking about, what concepts and why. Unfortunately, today's debate has not shown this and we hope that normality and normal debate will be postponed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U606	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U607	More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U608	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U609	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! This law, which we are currently dealing with, is in some respects very good, just as a good colleague of Leo Kunnas mentioned here, but since the devil is in detail, it is actually part of the puzzle that we have been talking about here earlier, which is part of the police state. I agree with the introduction of certain changes and improvements here, but I also see highly controversial problems with the norm. The Emergency Act currently in force specifically states that this law will be applied during emergency situations, heightened defence and martial law in so far as the Emergency Act and the National Defence Act do not provide otherwise. They want to change that now. And the third paragraph of the law currently in force is still to be amended in such a way as to eliminate the rule that the Emergency Act does not regulate the preparation for combating the threat to national security or constitutional order. It's now being pushed into this current emergency law. There's also "in preparation for a threat to constitutional order" and so on. So this constitutional order is now being pushed into the Emergency Act. In fact, we have a single law, a single law, a law of state of emergency, the purpose of which is very specific. This Act lays down the basis, conditions, competence of the bodies, remedies to be applied and the rights and obligations of persons in order to eliminate the threat to the constitutional order of Estonia. This law has been declared, it is in force, and no one started to change this law when dealing with this bill; it remained exactly as it is. The problem that I see here is that under the Emergency Act, if there is a threat, the Riigikogu, on the proposal of the President of the Republic or of the Government of the Republic, may, by a majority of its composition, declare the state of emergency throughout the country, etc. Even in this state of emergency, in the interests of national security and public order, the rights and freedoms of persons may be restricted in the cases provided for by law, subject to obligations, while many of the fundamental rights which are enshrined still remain valid, even though there is an exceptional situation. Now, about this bill that we are dealing with here, I have a very interesting point. First of all, § 1 (2) is amended to apply this law in preparation for a threat to national security and constitutional order, in so far as other laws do not provide otherwise. But it is the same law of extraordinary [position] that I referred to earlier that provides otherwise, because it can be declared by the Riigikogu on the basis of the extraordinary [position] law. But in this case under trial today, it remains in a very grey area, it is unclear who will announce whether it is the Government of the Republic, the State Chancellery or some other third. There is no legal clarity in the law. It gives rise to disputes, to different interpretations, to vague definitions, and therefore, in my opinion, it does not suffer any criticism of the correlation of laws, and also, let us say, any criticism. After all, this law could be made so that those parts of the emergency [position] law could immediately enter into the emergency [position] law that we have a clear and concrete picture of how we behave in the event of a threat to constitutional order and, in the case of other crises, it would then be in an emergency situation. But it seems to me that this is not to be done, and it is also, as we have heard, very urgent in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I wonder where we're going. There's a crisis, is it a threat to constitutional order? Is it necessary for the government to have any special powers to start implementing and putting such restrictions and obstacles to the realisation of the fundamental rights of the people under the name and auspices of preparation for the threat of constitutional order, because that is what it says? I believe that this law is a serious threat to the freedoms and rights of the people enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, and it cannot be adopted in this form under any circumstances. I ask all members of the Riigikogu to support the amendments of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, because this bill still needs very serious repairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U610	Thomas Stone Mountain, please! Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U611	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank my good colleague, Leo Kunna, for his extremely balanced, reasoned and meaningful presentation, which set out the things that are well-founded, and of course there are also things that are debated, and there is also the question of options. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that today we have spoken this law ten times as big as it really is in this Chamber. There was an extremely rational and constructive debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and nothing like what happened in this Chamber today. I don't know what's happened to those days. It was completely unexpected to me, and I really wasn't ready for it. It's very hard to understand all of this. As I said, we've been talking, or rather, you've been talking about this law ten times as big. These are perhaps all the relevant comments and views when we are talking about this Preparedness Act, which was referred to above and which Urmas Reinsalu referred to, which the government is planning to develop. I think 90% of what you said here today is more about this possible new law on preparedness. But today we have a completely different bill. I don't want to underestimate the meaning and role of this bill, but actually, with this bill, we're changing two things. First of all, this draft establishes AS Eesti Sihtuse Keskus on the basis of the Estonian Liquid Fuel Supply Agency. I think it's very simple and understandable. No one has contested this, even in this Chamber today, no one has contested this principle that supplies are not just about fuel supplies. My colleague, Helir-Valdor Seeder, raised the issue of food production and food supply here. I think it's quite appropriate. At the Commission meeting, it was also incomprehensible to me that on the list of vital services, I found somewhere such a statement that there really was no food production or food supply. However, when we talk about this supply center, I can see from the explanatory memorandum that there is also a food supply here. I, as chairman of the committee, raised the same issue at the committee meeting, because I, too, find it incomprehensible why it is not on the list of vital services. So your comment, Helir, I think, is quite pertinent. The officials on the ground confirmed that, of course, such fundamental changes cannot be made in the short term, i.e. cost. But for my part, I asked for this to be done as soon as possible, because there really is a need for clarity. If they think it doesn't have to be there, they don't have to be there, but then there's got to be reasons for it. So there has been no argument about this. If we are talking about a supply centre, I will certainly tell my colleagues that this does not mean that all stocks are placed in a single warehouse. This does not even mean that the food supply is somewhere else. The food supply can be exactly the same with the manufacturer, with the operator. So the task of the inventory centre is either to manage it or to collect it yourself somewhere. And the supply center doesn't touch defense supplies either, so it's getting out of the way. That's one, and I don't think there's been any argument about that. I understand that there are different opinions here, it is a question of options. Another fundamental change is that the preparation for civil crises according to this draft will be transferred from the Ministry of the Interior to the Government of the Republic. There has indeed been a great deal of debate about this. And if we take this draft, I would like to read this point to you in advance, § 4: "The development and implementation of a state crisis regulation policy will be led by the Government of the Republic. " That is the text of the draft. Ladies and gentlemen, Now I remind you: the previous government coalition, including the Fatherland, including the EKRE, including the Centre Party, Bill 112, the National Defence Act, the initiator of the Government of the Republic 02.12.2019. [The Emergency Act shall be amended as follows: Section 4 shall be amended and worded as follows]: "§ 4. Coordination of crisis management. The development and implementation of the state's crisis regulation policy is managed by the Government of the Republic. " Did you notice any difference in that wording? One word or one point or a comma? It's one of those laws that's taken over by one of them. And the previous government not only discussed it, but initiated it, this bill was brought to the Riigikogu. Everything's changed now overnight. Well, if things have to be different, ladies and gentlemen, it would be quite appropriate that you first admit that you were wrong at the time. Of course, we can also change our positions, but change our positions when it changes in the position of the seats, well, I think it's not very honest and very correct. I admit that is not very common. It is not very common to be placed under the State Chancellery and the Government of the Republic. But this is not a first. When we talk about preparing for security crises, it is already under the Government of the Republic today. The preparations for security crises are under the Government of the Republic. No one has contested this, saying that the problem here is that the government is a collegial body. And yet the government is run by the Prime Minister. I say that this level of responsibility has been raised considerably higher than it is today. Today it is at the level of the Ministry of the Interior and the Minister of the Interior. Now, under this bill, it will be transferred to the State Chancellery and the Government of the Republic and the Prime Minister will be responsible. Surprise-surprise, once again a little unconventional, also a little surprising for me: these possible drafts must be protected by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia in this regard. It's not very common. But once again, I am absolutely convinced that the Prime Minister can do this. Somehow to say it's like anonymous now, the Prime Minister will be replaced by the Minister of the Interior. Without any reproach or criticism of the Minister of the Interior, however, the Prime Minister is Prime Minister for his office. And this level of responsibility is many times higher than it is today. What else? A colleague said that crisis management is becoming much more unclear. How can crisis management become much more unclear with this draft if it does not even concern crisis management for a cent? There is no word for crisis management. Once again, preparing for civilian crises is what goes into the hands of the Government of the Republic and the State Chancellery, not crisis management. On the side of crisis management, both ministries and other institutions will continue to retain their responsibilities, just as they have so far. It's the Police and Border Guard, it's the Rescue Board, it's the Health Board or whoever. How can it get worse if we don't change it? And what has caused the discussion is one word. That is what we discussed in the Commission. Indeed, it may be difficult to understand, because there is a provision here that the development and implementation of a country's crisis regulation policy is led by the Government of the Republic. The word "leads" really caused some confusion. I admit that maybe this is the conclusion that the Government of the Republic will be in charge of the crisis. We were looking for a replacement for that word. In fact, this management means, above all, that, among other things, the State Chancellery and the Government of the Republic will be given the task of coordinating exercises in emergency management. The same word "leads" applies more to this. But this country's crisis regulation policy is nothing to do with governance. Perhaps, ladies and gentlemen, once again: neither the Government of the Republic nor the Prime Minister will lead the crisis; there will be no change here. So I'm truly sorry that you've talked about this bill ten times as big as it really is. This is the same thing you left behind, ladies and gentlemen of the Fatherland and the EKRE. We're gonna finish this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U612	Now, the story is that both Mr Kunnas and Mr Seeder have already used their word round, and I did not notice Mr Kivimägi mentioned you. [[A voice from the hall.]] You mentioned Mr. King, Thomas. I'm sorry! Then, Mr. Kunnas, please, you have the opportunity of a rejoinder. But, Mr. Seeder, I didn't hear your name unless you identify yourself with the real party as a whole. But let's start with Mr. Kunnas.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U613	Thank you! Thank you, Thomas, for your friendly words. You are absolutely right that the 112 version of the bill before the improvements was such that it said: the Government of the Republic, as a collective body, manages the crisis. We proposed amendments to this so-called "four frame forces" so that this could be the case, but in this case the Prime Minister should be in charge, so that this crisis management can also take place on the basis of a single management principle in the case of defence or any crisis. That's all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U614	Mr. Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U615	Thank you. Indeed, the name of Seedri was not mentioned, but Helir-Valdor was mentioned and I do not know that there would be another Helir-Valdor. But I also have good advice for the manager. When I was in charge of the hearing, I always wrote down those names in the negotiations who were mentioned not to forget, just in case, because...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U616	We'll do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U617	... if there are longer negotiations, the reply may be taken half an hour later when they are spoken, and the manager may not remember any more. But my line is actually for the verbogram. This is where the previous speaker said that the previous government has initiated this analogous bill. He did, and there were serious disputes, discussions and differences in the previous coalition. This bill came from the government and I can assure you that it would probably not have passed through Parliament in the form that the previous government initiated. So, in any case, these amendments would have come up in the course of Parliament's procedure and these issues would have been raised in the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U618	Urmas Reinsalu is now on the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U619	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Dear friends! I'm listening and wondering what's going on here. We had this in Parliament's proceedings, and I also drew attention to this in my presentation of this draft 112, which had an explanatory memorandum on 340 pages and the text of the draft law was on 130 pages and which provided for exactly such a comprehensive approach to the crisis, based on national defence. Now the question is that they try to rip out a sentence with one paragraph and say that it doesn't really change anything. But I think that cutting off one button from this uniform, which is the law of national defence, and sewing it, in the context of the corona crisis, is not just rational. Firstly, it is not rational in the midst of a functioning crisis, there is still a crisis to start by slices here, there are different concepts of what these concepts mean to coordinate the crisis, we call it, and we call it a change in competences. Secondly, it is all the more mysterious that the previous government initiated a comprehensive draft law on national defence, and there was a great deal of controversy over it, both experts and political controversy. Now it is planned to make a new law from scratch, which in reality means what the representatives of the government have admitted that these provisions may not be kept by any of them. In June, a new concept will come up, which will or may be done on a completely different basis, and this concept could mean something entirely different. What is this concept, by adding everything together, and what it's going to look like, we're not really aware of that. So in the current situation, of course, this stock thing is what we need. But right now, frankly, the apologists of the draft are trying to say that, in terms of the same non-management of the crisis, we call it the regulation of the non-management of the crisis, the draft does not deal with crisis management, that it is the conclusions of the crisis, etc., etc. But if it is not related to the corona crisis, to the issues arising from the corona crisis, then it is not of such an acute nature at all. Then why don't we wait for a complete solution? Let's take and do the stock things that, I think, there's a consensus, and let's just leave these other things behind. The government itself will come up next month, in June, with a comprehensive concept. I don't know if there's one paragraph that Thomas said it really doesn't make much difference. One paragraph. If he's such that he doesn't change anything, he shouldn't change anything, my proposal is. But a comprehensive approach to national defence crisis management must be given, this draft was presented by the previous government, and I think it was right to do so. One or the other provision may be unconvinced, but there was a holistic approach. The crisis management of the previous government was a 340-page explanatory memorandum and a 130-page bill. The new government will table, as Thomas even said, a bill that does not really concern crisis management at all. And he says that this thing is, you see, taken out of it. Thomas, you forgot 129 pages of the bill. Then it would have been the thing where you could have indicated that, look, you did the exact same thing. I can also say that you can see how many letters are the same from the previous law, certainly in the other sections, right? Let's take it from the right point of view and do fast things and try to make sure that they don't snap on the flag, the patch on the cloth. That's the risk right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U620	No more words, I'll close the negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. The first amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia; the proposal of the commission is not taken into account. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U621	[[Remote connection]] Please put this amendment to the vote, because the paragraph of the existing law is already exhaustive enough; it does not need to be amended.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U622	You don't have to explain. Suffice it to say that I wish to vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I put to the vote before you Amendment 1, tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U623	The proposal was supported by 24 members of the Riigikogu, 58 against and 0 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. A second amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia; the proposal of the commission is not taken into account. Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U624	[[Remote connection]] I would ask that the amendment be put to the vote and supported, because the crisis regulation must still remain under the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U625	We got it. I believe that the call does not have to be made, the fingers are already warm, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 2, tabled by the ECRE Group, the lead committee has failed. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U626	The proposal was supported by 27 members of the Riigikogu, 56 against. The proposal was not supported. Mr. Ratas, you have a wish to speak. Do you have a procedure or was it [experience]? It must have been an accident, okay? The third amendment has been tabled by the EKRE Group; the lead committee has not taken account of it. Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U627	[[Remote connection]] I ask for this proposal to be voted on because it clarifies and makes a linguistic amendment to this section.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U628	It's settled. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the third amendment, tabled by the EKRE Group, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U629	The proposal was supported by 28 members of the Riigikogu, 56 against. The proposal was not supported. The fourth amendment, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U630	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U631	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put to the vote before you the fourth amendment tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and the Steering Committee has been disregarded. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U632	34 members of the Riigikogu supported the proposal, 57 against. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 5, tabled by... I'm sorry! Mr. Ernits, you have a procedural question. We can't hear you. Please turn on the mike, Mr. Ernits!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U633	With regard to the first amendment, I voted in favour, but maybe some sort of message that I have been disabled, logged off, but not all of the following [votes] were logged out, and I will sit on one seat. So it's a little bit of knowledge.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U634	Got it. If the system works now, it's fine. The outcome of the vote on the first amendment has already been confirmed. So, we are, let me remind you, with the fifth amendment, it has been tabled by the ECRE Group, and the lead committee has taken full account of this. Mr. Pier.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U635	Sorry, I kind of jumped the button. I would like to vote on the next amendment. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U636	You'll agree with that then, I understand. Got it. Then the fifth amendment is accepted. The sixth amendment, tabled by the EKRE Group, has been rejected by the commission. Now, Mr. Fieldace, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U637	Now it's going to be totally right. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted and supported, because, for the sake of clarity, the name of the company managing the assets and the name of the ministry is mentioned here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U638	Ladies and gentlemen, I will put to the vote before you the sixth amendment tabled by the EKRE Group has been rejected by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U639	The proposal was supported by 27 members of the Riigikogu, 58 against. The proposal was not supported. The seventh amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Mr. Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U640	I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U641	Got it. Ladies and gentlemen, I will put to the vote before you the seventh amendment tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which has been fully taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U642	71 members of the Riigikogu supported this control vote, no one opposed, with 4 abstentions. This proposal from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was supported. We have therefore examined the amendments. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the second reading of the draft, but we have received a proposal from the Group of the Isamaa and the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to interrupt the draft Act amending the Emergency Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and in connection with the amendment of other laws [second reading]. We have to vote through this. Do you agree that we don't use a hall call for that, either? No objections. Ladies and gentlemen, I put to the vote before you a proposal by the Isamaa Group and the EKRE Group to interrupt the second reading of the draft 350. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U643	34 members of the Riigikogu supported this proposal, 56 members of the Riigikogu opposed it. The proposal was not supported. We have completed the second reading of the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U644	We will proceed to our 10th item today, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Act on the Election of the European Parliament and the Law on the Organisation of Local Government, initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, 389 (the participation of a Member of the European Parliament in the work of the local government council). Toomas Kivimägi, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, will present this to us. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U645	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you not to leave both the hall and the screens, because this bill is no less exciting than the previous one. This draft has been initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I think it is important to point out immediately that this is such a good draft that, after the Committee on Constitutional Affairs had initiated this draft, there was a huge struggle to see who was really the initiator of this draft. On the opposition side and on the coalition side, both parties wanted to take the credit, but I assure and repeat that this draft was initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I am also particularly pleased to say that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did so in a consensual manner. To be very precise, all members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs who took part in the vote voted in favour of initiating this draft. Secondly, it is also important to clarify that seven out of nine members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs took part in the vote. The purpose of this draft is to remove the restrictions on members of the European Parliament elected from Estonia not to participate in the work of the local rural municipality or city council. Members of the European Parliament may stand as candidates in municipal elections, but they cannot be members of local municipal or urban councils at the same time as [member of the European Parliament]. If that is what they want, then they will have to give up the mandate of a Member of the European Parliament, and I think it would be a little bit much to want. It is important to note that in this case one important objective is to apply an analogy to the members of the Riigikogu. Quite a number of years ago, the parliament approved that members of the Riigikogu may also belong to local government councils at the same time. I am pleased to note that, in fact, this law has landed on a very fertile surface. As far as I know, 48 members of the Riigikogu are also members of the local rural municipality or city council, so this is not just a formality, but on the contrary, this [option] has actually been very basically used. And maybe another important line. It's a little emotional, but I was very disappointed when Postimees called it a decoy duck bill in one of the web sites. It must have been taken down very quickly, and it was soon changed. In my opinion, this is quite the opposite. I would argue that, while MEPs may stand for municipal and city councils but may not belong to them, the word 'decoup duck' could be used in this case. However, if Parliament approves the draft which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs initiated, then it would be extremely inappropriate to use the word 'decoup party' for MEPs who are candidates for election to municipal and city councils. Now another very important substantive argument. The European Parliament Election Act was adopted already in 2002, two years before Estonia joined the European Union. I am saying that we are actually making a correction to the 2002 errors because, in fact, there is no justification for the restriction by which MEPs are not allowed to belong to local councils until today. The Supreme Court has found that restrictions on the exercise of the passive electoral right of the council, the acquisition and exercise of the mandate, including the power of a council member, early termination, suspension and restoration, may be imposed in order to protect particularly weighty legal values. The question immediately arises of what are these particularly weighty legal values, which is why they have not been granted this right until the moment Parliament approves this draft. The Supreme Court also says that restrictions must not deter individuals or groups with real support from the council, and such restrictions would damage the foundations of local governments so that the representative body cannot become sufficiently representative. In fact, I admit that there has been a debate on why, in 2002, when the European Parliament's election law was adopted, there was no debate on this subject, I dare say that this is rather an unjustified restriction. But if we approve this draft in this Chamber, we will actually correct the error that has not been corrected since 2002. What is actually very strange is that if today a Member of the European Parliament cannot be a mayor or a mayor, then a surprise-surprism, according to the law in force today, a Member of the European Parliament may be a member of a rural municipality government or city government, not a mayor or mayor, but he may be a member, which is still completely absurd. He may be a member of a municipality government or city government, but he may not be a member of a council. He may not be a member of a representative body, but he may be a member of an executive body. With this bill, we are also making a correction to the fact that we are losing the right of a Member of the European Parliament to belong to a municipality or city government. Including, of course, the principle that he cannot be either an elder or mayor remains valid. It is also important to note here that the draft law is scheduled to enter into force on the day following the election of local government councils. The next regular municipal elections are known to take place on 17 October and this bill is scheduled to enter into force on 18 October, the day following the regular municipal elections. Therefore, it is not with retroactive effect for the current municipal or city council, but MEPs will then be entitled to belong to it from 18 October. What else can I say? Maybe in two words, I'll tell you what the protocol says. I consider it important to point out, in the interests of the truth, that this draft has been initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but the original text of this draft was drafted by Olivia Talle, Legal Adviser to the Regional Administrative Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, who also attended the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and gave reasons and presented the draft and mostly the same points of view that I spoke of here. Ms Taltude also pointed out the principle that, like members of the Riigikogu, members of the European Parliament are not remunerated for participating in the work of a council member. Perhaps, just as members of the Riigikogu do not receive any remuneration for participating in the work of the council, the same principle applies to the members of the European Parliament if they are members of the municipal or city council. At the same time, they, like the members of the Riigikogu, are still entitled to compensation for expenses incurred in carrying out the duties of the council, such as travel, accommodation and other travel expenses, I believe and hope that most of us will not use it, and that the Members of the European Parliament will not use it, but they will be entitled to compensation on the basis of the documents submitted. They are covered by the rural municipality's or city's budget. 11 May was the date on which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs initiated this draft. Maybe some lines that are important to point out. In particular, Paul Puustusmaa said that the Estonian Conservative People's Party has always been against the so-called two-chair law. It is now difficult to say what the position of the EKRE Group on this matter is. At the meeting of the Commission, Mart Helme, a full member of the Commission, was presently a member of Mr Grünthal's alternate, who said that the EKRE Group has no fundamental opposition at present to this amendment. However, it is also important to note that Urmas Reinsalu said that the Isamaa Group discussed this amendment and that the group had different views on the matter and that no final position was reached during the discussions. It cannot therefore be said whether or not the Isamaa Group supports the initiation of the draft. The question also arose as to how important this bill really is when it is passed as a law. In fact, this is not of significant weight because today there are a total of 1729 parish and city council members. If seven of them are Members of the European Parliament, then in fact, I riddled out, it is 0.4%. In fact, there is no significant impact in the 'numbers' world, but I hope that on the substance side it will be a very important complement to the competence and the link between European positions and local authorities. So I am absolutely convinced that this will certainly significantly improve the quality of the debate. Then the decisions were made, and I'll read them. First, on 11 May, it was decided to initiate a law amending the European Parliament Election Act and the Local Government Organisation Act. The decision was consensual. Mart Helme, Toomas Kivimägi, Andrei Korobeinik, Paul Puustusmaa, Martin Repinski, Marko Storm and Mart Võrguship took part in the vote. These names are repeating, so I'm not going to read them from now on. Seven of the nine members of the Commission took part in the vote; two of them did not participate. Secondly, it was decided to appoint Toomas Kivimägi, the chairman of the committee, as the representative of the Constitutional Committee in the Riigikogu when dealing with the draft. This decision was also consensual, and the same seven people voted in favour of it. Thirdly, it was decided to propose a draft on the plenary agenda on 19 May 2021 and this decision was also consensual. It was then discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs [the draft and] also took procedural decisions on 17 May 2021. As the substantive discussion of this draft was held at the initiation of the draft, the draft was not discussed in substance at this meeting of the Commission. It is important to note that Urmas Reinsalu reiterated that he is not taking part in the vote, where the committee decides whether or not to propose to the Riigikogu plenary that the first reading of the draft be stopped. Then procedural decisions were made. Firstly, to propose that the first reading of the draft be stopped. This decision was consensual, with Kalle Grünthal, Toomas Kivimägi, Andrei Korobeinik, Oudekki Loone, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Paul Puustusmaa and Mart Võrguship. Secondly, it was decided to propose a deadline of 27 May 2021 for amendments. This decision was also consensual, and here, in addition to the previous ones, Urmas Reinsalu [voted in favour]. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U646	Henn Pier would like to clarify something. Please, Mr. Pierce!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U647	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I have a very simple and practical question. As we know, 99% of our councils are sitting on Thursdays, and Thursday is also the European Parliament's day. I am interested in the miraculous way in which MEPs can participate in local council meetings, because it is simply physically impossible to be in two places at once.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U648	Thank you, dear questioner. Of course, the best answer to this is for the Members of the European Parliament themselves, who decide to stand for [the Council], and I am convinced that they will also be asked to do so. In any case, I think the voter has a right to know that if a Member of the European Parliament who is running is elected, whether he actually goes to the council or not. Depending on the answer, each can draw its own conclusions and decide whether or not it will support this candidate. Of course, we expect and hope that [the only] reason to hold hearings through Teams or via the web is in this case a corona crisis. I hope the Coronary crisis is over, but I think we've learned a lot from it too. I do not rule out that, in the future, if significantly more sessions are to be held via Teams or hybrid sessions, the [how sessions are to be held] is in fact the decision of each local government council. By the way, one draft that our honourable group leader Mart Võrguship and, to my knowledge, Mr Tiit Terik have initiated is that Parliament could deal with the procedures for remote sittings in the context of local governments. There are some general acts that we actually have today, but let's say we haven't denied that point. In fact, perhaps within the framework of the COKS revision, we will also arrive at the fact that we are really looking at these options. I think it would be quite appropriate to also give local government councils this is purely my personal view of the possibility of holding a hybrid session. So this is one way. Another possibility is that we see that we also have a remote hearing in the Riigikogu, okay, now, but if we were to be physically present, then not everyone was always present. Apparently, there were some other important activities, so it really depends on the agenda and session of the Council, depending on what is on the agenda in the European Parliament. It is certainly not always the end of the world when a Member of the European Parliament takes part in a municipal council meeting instead of a sitting of a parliament, where there are very important issues. But once again, it is up to each Member to decide. I think it's not just creating an analog, but I also referred to the position of the Supreme Court. In fact, I am saying that it is still in conflict at the moment, it is an unjustified offense, they do not have that right at the moment. Once again: if we have spoken that members of the Riigikogu may also belong to local government councils, then exactly the same right could actually be the members of the European Parliament. I take this opportunity because I did not mention that today there is no position of the Government of the Republic on this draft. The Government of the Republic intends to shape the position according to my information on 27 May, next week. We have also received the position of the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities. Their view was that opinions differ. There are local authorities that support and there are those who do not support. Their concern was similar to that of Henn Põllea, how they can actually participate. But I will say it once again: every Member of the European Parliament, when he decides to stand as a candidate in the municipal elections, must make it clear himself and then act in accordance with what he promises his voter.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U649	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U650	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. But we have the decision, Thomas. We decide whether it is actually appropriate to have [man] in two jobs at once, but one of them is actually, we are honest, it is not really possible to keep it when we are talking about a normal situation. As Henn rightly said, there are plenary sessions on Thursdays on the working week, and even if the work of the council is on a day other than Thursday, it doesn't add up. In itself, the thinking of the Fatherland is that we consider it reasonable that, if the mandate does not coincide, it might actually be possible that, if this mandate is now extinguished after it has been elected, we think it might stop. That's the difference between us in this logic. But my question is that you said, Thomas, that it is very bad that there is a legal gap now, that [Member of the European Parliament] cannot be a member of the local government and city government, either or if he voluntarily... [[The connection's breaking up.]] But what's that for you...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U651	Mr Reinsalu, could you ask your question again for the last 10 seconds? It disappeared because of a bad signal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U652	[[Remote connection]] I'm sorry! I don't know where that bad reception was on the phone. But my question to Thomas was that he pointed out that it was a very bad situation for a Member of the European Parliament, for example, to be a member of an unremunerated rural municipality or city government. My question is, what's wrong with it if we assume that he's a member of the parish government there somewhere and he's also in the hybrid session or over the phone? What's wrong with that? Is there any legal confusion in practice today that we need this blockade?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U653	Thank you, Urmas, for this exciting question. I can respond to the same thing that you actually started with, that when you saw that a Member of the European Parliament had a problem attending a council meeting once a month, municipal meetings usually take place once a week, sometimes more often. So I think it's really more of a formality here. Secondly, I assume that, if the rights of [Member of the European Parliament] were to be extended, it should, above all, have the right and the opportunity to belong to a council, a representative body. We will otherwise say that he cannot be a member of the Riigikogu, but at the same time he may be an executive. On the basis of my experience, executive hearings are held at least once a week. As for the fact that council meetings take place on Thursdays, it is neither stoned nor prescribed by law. I do not think and do not want to say that one or two Members of the European Parliament should necessarily change the date of the council meeting, but that is not out of the question, so one or the other council may do so at another time and this will also allow Members of the European Parliament to participate. But once again, this is actually the decision of every local council. If a Member of the European Parliament is elected there, he has one vote, so in that sense he cannot influence this decision too much. I think that there are options, and I will say again that this is a breach of [rights] at the moment, as decided by the Supreme Court. Once again, we, the good members of the Riigikogu, are privileged, we may belong to [city and parish councils], but at the same time I also have the Pärnu City Council meeting tomorrow and at the same time the Riigikogu meeting. Luckily, the remote session form allows me to attend both. The session of the Riigikogu starts at 10 a.m. and the meeting of the Riigikogu starts at 12 a.m. However, if we are privileged to take advantage of this opportunity, then surely Members of the European Parliament must also have this opportunity. I think this is important in view of the principle of equal treatment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U654	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U655	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. But Thomas, the Supreme Court has not said that this restriction in itself is unconstitutional. You're referring to the general principle. But my question is that you said you couldn't participate in the parish government work because the municipal council meetings are once a week. But the municipal meeting can also be held on Fridays or as a hybrid session. Why don't you use that analogy? Similarly, the question is that you referred to the fact that if the Commissioner, in fact a Member of the European Parliament, cannot participate in the Thursday meetings of the Council, it is his business, in fact the matter of dialogue between him and the electorate. Why is this dialogue thing and his own business, whether or not he can participate in the work of the municipal administration, not his business and the question between him and his constituents, or his attitude to the work of the council, if he cannot attend any sitting? It seems to me that we, as we assume, are unable to participate in the work either way, but we are at the same time selective in taking away one choice. It's a little bit of a question mark.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U656	Thank you, Urmas! No, in that sense, he is not so selective now. Once again, by the end of the day, it will still be the decision of every Member of the European Parliament itself. If I meant dialogue, I assume that if a Member of the European Parliament is running for election to the Pärnu City Council, then I, as a voter, would really like to find out from him whether he actually comes to the council or not. Of course, he has the right to do both things, it is actually his choice, but by dialogue with the electorate, I mean that the voter has it first. I am convinced that if he says he is running for office but does not come to the council, the number of votes this Member of the European Parliament gets is considerably lower than if he promises to the electorate and actually comes to the council. But when it comes to the work of the municipal administration, these sessions are, of course, very different, but usually they do not happen on Fridays, rather they are, I know from the experience of the city of Pärnu, either on Mondays or on Tuesdays. In this sense, I say once again, Urmas, this is actually an analogy with the members of the Riigikogu. The members of the Riigikogu must not, by law, be either mayors or mayors and they must not be members of the municipality or city government. Here we are applying exactly the same analogy, and it would be incomprehensible once again if we leave MEPs the right to be members of a rural municipality or city government. This would be unjustified and, again, unequal treatment for members of the Riigikogu and members of the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U657	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U658	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President of the sitting. Good waitress! Is it not another answer to the problem raised by our good colleagues, Mr Põllea and Mr Reinsalu that, in fact, the times of the municipal council and the European Parliament's mandates do not overlap? For example, it is possible to imagine a person who successfully applied for as a Member of the European Parliament in the local elections in 2013 was elected, suspended his mandate until the 2014 European Parliament elections were held, for example, where this person does not participate, and after that he can continue to work on the council on Thursdays, Wednesdays, Tuesdays, Mondays and Saturdays and Sundays, if necessary. It seems to me that the argument that these times overlap on Thursdays does not mean that this draft should be rejected.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U659	Thank you, dear Raimond Kaljulaid. Here it is now important to know that the early termination of the mandate of a Member of the European Parliament is irreversible under the European Parliament Election Act. Perhaps if he has made this decision, then, in fact, today, the opportunity that Urmas Reinsalu referred to, the Members of the European Parliament do not have. They must, within 10 days of being elected to a municipal or city council, decide whether to waive the mandate of a Member of the European Parliament, and in which case they can continue to work in a municipal or city council. If they have not given up this mandate, this mandate will then be irreversible, and even after it has completed its work in the European Parliament due to the deadline, it will not be entitled to return to the municipal or city council where it received the electoral mandate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U660	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U661	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. That's exactly what I meant, but the other way around. If MEPs had the right to participate in the work of the local government council today or in the past, then it can be imagined that MEPs elected in 2013 were MEPs until 2014, after which they were no longer present and can continue working in the municipal council. The same is the case in the future. Let us imagine that an MEP will stand as a candidate for these elections, become a member of the local council, for example, in the next European elections, for a decision not to stand as a candidate and can participate peacefully in municipal council meetings as long as the law allows him to do so. He can suspend his mandate and his alternate will be on the council in his place for so long. It's just that I'm pointing out that, in fact, the overlap of time doesn't necessarily have to create this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U662	Thank you, good questioner! That's one way. It is now the first reading of the bill, and perhaps, as you suggested, and as Urmas suggested, to bring in the possibility of suspending [the mandate]. If, for example, one year remains before the end of the mandate in the European Parliament and the local elections are held today, it may indeed feel that it cannot actually participate in the first year, but can take part after it has decided that it will no longer stand for [the European Parliament]. In that case, he would really like to stop them. At this point, once again, I stress that there is no possibility. Today, it is the case that, within 10 days of being elected to a municipal or city council, it must decide whether or not to waive the mandate of a Member of the European Parliament. If he quits, then he can take up work at the municipal or city council, but if he doesn't, he loses his mandate in the municipal or city council. As I said, this is an irreversible consequence and he cannot return later. However, one way is to introduce the possibility of suspending [the mandate] by amending the law. So we are completely open to discussing this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U663	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U664	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! MEPs, as we know, should be candidates for all of Estonia; they should be aware of everything that is happening across Estonia. Suppose this MEP, for example, is a member of Kihnu Vallavolikogu at the same time and spends his precious time doing things in Kihnu municipality. Does he have enough time to be familiar with Kihnu's problems and at the same time adequately understand everything that is happening throughout Estonia? How does he have time to be a member of Kihnu Vallavolikogu as well as an Estonian MEP? How would you answer that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U665	Thank you, good questioner! I would not underestimate the capacity of the MEPs elected from Estonia. The members of the Riigikogu can also work in local councils and be members of the Riigikogu at the same time, and now, Imre, it is extremely important that I think that the time spent to solve the problems of Kihnu municipality is as expensive as the expensive time of the members of the European Parliament. Let's not underestimate Kihnu's problems! The problems of Kihnu are just as important as the problems of Europe, so I wouldn't know the difference in that sense. Commitment to the affairs of Kihnu municipality is as important as commitment to European affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U666	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U667	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I, too, agree with you that, just as members of the Riigikogu have brought more knowledge to local government councils with their workpans, so it would probably be for the Members of the European Parliament to do so. But in order to make it a nice question, after listening to all these earlier questions, I would ask this question: do you also think that the Members of the European Parliament are adults and responsible people who can tell themselves how they share their working hours and can do this perfectly?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U668	Thank you, good questioner and colleague. Well, since you've given me the protocol, of course, probably that's the way it is, I'm gonna have to do the same for you. I absolutely agree. I say once again that MEPs, these seven elected people from Estonia, are still well above average capable people. So in this sense, we have no reason to doubt that they will be able to devote one or two or three days a month to the activities of the municipal or city council and, in addition, to their work in the European Parliament. There are also more important and less important votes in the European Parliament, so I think that is not a very big problem. We also do not know how and with what rhythm the European Parliament is working and how they are conducting remote sessions. So I say again: I think that the corona crisis has brought long-distance hearings, and I am absolutely convinced that the number of long-distance hearings will also increase significantly when its main cause, i.e. the corona crisis, is over. It is actually very practical and very rational, especially in cases where people have to come from different corners of Estonia. Then it will certainly be significantly less costly, significantly more environmentally friendly and much more there. So once again, of course, they know enough about their abilities, and they're very capable. We have no reason to doubt that if they make this decision that they are willing to participate in the work of the municipal and city councils at the same time, it is certainly a conscious decision and they will do so. As my good colleague Kristen said, of course. I think this bond is actually very important. We have two members in the Riigikogu, who are also in the City Council of Pärnu. I am not talking about myself in this case, but, for example, a good colleague, Andres Metsoja. I am absolutely convinced that, with his opinions and views, he has included a great many very good debates in the work of the City Council. The connection between the Riigikogu and local government is, in fact, much better. I think it will benefit both the state and the municipality.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U669	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U670	[[Remote connection]] I wanted to tell you about Kihnu. Perhaps others are not so well informed, but Kihnus is about 700 people and a few hundred of them work on the mainland, abroad and on ships. Kihnu is a very good Estonian model. Every member of the Riigikogu, or also a member of the Euro Parliament, who is running for office in Kihnu and works at the Kihnu Council, will definitely get a lot of knowledge from there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U671	Thank you, my good colleague Annely. It is a long way for all of us to go to Kihn's industriousness, so in any case, I congratulate and thank the fanmen for their work! As I said above, their problems are no less important and the time spent on these problems is no less valuable than the work we do in the Riigikogu or the work that is being done in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U672	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U673	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! I thank my good colleague Annely very much for her comment. I didn't want to bring his name in, but since you brought his name in, I think Annely would be a very good candidate for the European Parliament, and I'm pretty sure that she could really be familiar with the problems of Narva, for example. But you pointed out that online sessions are very important. Not all local councils have yet perhaps reached online sessions. There may be a need to change legislation there, but it could really be the key to the future, how it is possible to share responsibilities and be there everywhere. Do you think that any legislative changes could continue to be made to make teleworking more accessible to all local authorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U674	Thank you, dear colleague Imre. I fully agree with you that Annely would be a very good Member of the European Parliament, so we will certainly consider putting her on the list of candidates for the European Parliament in the political party and in the political group. On the other hand, I fully agree with you on the point that I once again referred to, in fact, this issue has been raised by both Mart Võrguship and Mr Terik, and perhaps there should be a separate regulation of how local authorities organise remote sessions. I am absolutely convinced that today maybe a little more technical problems and complexity than a physical sitting and a remote sitting at the same time. The Riigikogu can do this, but maybe at local government level it is a little more difficult to organise it. It's actually more of a matter of getting used to technique and getting used to at all. I can see that in the future it could be very natural that there will be hybrid sessions. Some of those who receive will be physically present, some will take part in a remote session through Teams or some other environment. Once again, it is actually extremely environmentally friendly, it is saving money. Of course, sometimes we also want to get together physically, but I think that if we look for the good in this corona, as little as there is, then definitely Teams' development [is positive]. If we look at it too, when we started [the Riigikogu], how incompetent we really were, how unfamiliar [it was]. Although I still like to talk ten times as much on this remote control as I do when I'm sitting at a desk at home. I prefer to be here, but people's interests and readiness and opportunities are different. We have actually developed a great deal in this ourselves. There were a lot of problems at first, but today these problems have all been solved, so I think this is the way to the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U675	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. Since this is a draft initiated by the Commission itself, there is no presentation by the Commission, and we can go to the negotiations. I don't see the wish for negotiations. But still, Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U676	[[Remote connection]] On behalf of the Fatherland, I can say that we certainly intend to propose an amendment to this draft. In our view, it is justified that people, if they do not have a double mandate, can participate in the work of the council. People can also leave the European Parliament or either position for personal reasons, but there is no point in creating this overlap. Now this very great victory presented by Thomas, which should come from this parallel work at a social level, that we are all winning, at European level, and at national and local level, and that, although people are capable and that is the question of their mandate. Well, if this reasoning is further developed, and that it is also a question of constitutionality, the exercise of the passive right to vote, then it would make sense to allow Members of the European Parliament to stand as candidates in all Estonian municipalities, if they are, as Toomas said, capable people. Then why are we saying that Kihnu or Pärnu only gets one? If we have over 60 municipalities, then Yana Toom will be sitting in the thirtyth and someone else will be sitting in the fortyth and coping. As Thomas pointed out, this is a question of voter confidence, there is no problem of presence if he does not reach or participate in forty municipalities in any way hybrid. Huge television monitors are ahead of you to attend the 40 municipal council meetings. This is the victory. I do, however, think that there is an objectively considered logic for not allowing a double mandate. However, it could be possible for them not to lose the mandate immediately after the elections, but to have the opportunity to suspend the mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U677	Thank you very much. There is no further wish for negotiations. The lead committee has proposed to close the first reading of draft 389. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 27 May at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U678	Today's 11th item is the first reading of the draft law amending the collective agreement and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Tanel Kiik, Minister of Health and Labour, will give a presentation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U679	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will briefly introduce the draft law amending the collective agreement law and other laws 383. The purpose of the amendments to the law is to supplement the law on collective agreements and to align the regulation on the extension of the terms of collective agreements with the freedom to conduct a business protected by the Constitution. At the same time, it is important to ensure the capacity of social partnership and collective inclusion. This amendment of the law is due to the fact that the current regulation is incomplete in the view of the preconditions for the extension of the collective agreement and the criteria for its application and, consequently, it is possible for a small group to agree on the extension of obligations to the whole sector. In it, both the Chancellor of Justice and the Supreme Court have seen a disproportionate restriction on the freedom to conduct a business. The most important thing here is to mention the Supreme Court decision of 15 June 2020 number 2-18-7821, which draws attention to this same issue. More specifically, the bill amends the law of the collective agreement in such a way that the conditions governing the extension of the collective agreement will apply in the future. The extension of the terms of the collective agreement can then be agreed as one of the parties to the agreement by a trade union or union association whose members make up 15% of the employees in the industry or who have at least 500 members, and by an employers' association or association which employs at least 40% of the employees in the sector as the other party. Before extending the terms of the collective agreement, the negotiating parties have an obligation to inform employees and employers and to consult those in respect of whom these conditions are to be extended. The expanded conditions of the collective agreement will be monitored and the extended terms of the collective agreement will be published by the Minister responsible for the field, he will then be Minister for Social Affairs, Minister for Health and Labour or any other option for the future. The draft also amends the Law on Trade Unions and on the Employee Trustees Act, specifying the employer's obligation to give time off from working time to carry out the duties of the trustee, even in the event of a large number of trustees, in which case several different trustees have been selected in the company or organisation. The Employment Contracts Act is also amended by increasing the compensation payable in the event of nullity of the employment relationship in a situation where the employment relationship has been cancelled without a legal basis with a pregnant woman, a maternity leave or a worker's representative. Similarly, the Civil Service Act is amended by increasing the compensation payable in the event of nullity of a service relationship in similar situations, i.e. where a service relationship is cancelled without a legal basis with a representative of a pregnant person, a maternity leave, a child under seven years of age or a civil servant. Both laws raise the compensation rate from six months to 12 months, when compensation is paid in cases where the court or labour dispute committee establishes the nullity of the cancellation of a contract of employment with a pregnant worker, a worker entitled to maternity leave or with a representative of the officials, respectively. Among other things, some technical changes are made to the collective agreement law as well as to the working conditions of workers posted to Estonia, which do not entail changes to the current practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U680	Thank you. It is now possible to ask questions. Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U681	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Thank you, Minister, for this very good review. But I have a question. While this law improves very well the benefits that can be understood in the event of unlawful termination of a contract of employment, it would actually be logical for an employee to be able to demand that the job be reinstated if it has indeed been declared illegally. This is a practice that is used in a large number of European countries. Have we not thought that we could also take a step towards a person saying that no, it is not a matter of compensation, I want to get paid for my honest work and I want to continue the work that I do very well and in the job from which I was unfairly fired.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U682	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for your question. Indeed, at the moment, the aim has been for such unfounded, unfounded cases to have a sufficiently large social guarantee for the trustee or, as I previously pointed out, for the various situations in which a person has been deprived of contract either when pregnant or during maternity leave [right] collectively. In certain cases, it can be said that reinstating could be appropriate and possible, in certain cases it may not be practically adequate or real if we are talking about a person who has already gone on parental leave or in some other situation after the early termination of service as a pregnant woman. In this case, we need to look legally at what the options are. Of course, the person on maternity leave also has the right to retain his or her job, but the current idea and agreement reached with employers and trade unions is to make such cases as little as possible by raising compensation. After all, the aim and goal is that situations such as those where, for some inadequate reason, a contract of employment is terminated should be minimal. All forms and possibilities of rehabilitation are an additional debate that is difficult to imagine in practice in terms of achieving a normal supportive working climate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U683	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U684	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. If we look now at the last few weeks, we have discussed, for example, the reimbursement of sick days for women who return from parental leave to work so that they do not receive a sickness benefit or a maintenance fee of 80% of the minimum wage. Similarly, we discussed one earlier amendment that the difference between two children born consecutively is not 2.5 years, but that we extended it to three years. No matter what the numerical limit is, there's someone for whom it doesn't fit at all. Why has this particular draft so strictly reached 40%, 500 people, 15%? What matters is the agreement, not whether it is represented at 39% or 41%.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U685	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much for your question. Of course, setting any limit always raises questions, disputes and debates. The reason why we have even started to change this law is, as I referred to earlier, the feedback from the Chancellor of Justice and the Supreme Court and the specific decision of the Supreme Court concerning the extension of collective agreements. These numbers have been agreed in tripartite negotiations with trade unions and employers and, of course, they may have a different understanding of what is the right and precise number, but it is important that a certain representation is guaranteed and also the specific condition of the legislative extension is fixed. These numbers are substantial enough in this view to allow, in more common cases, these collective agreements to be extended to include, for example, the medical sector, the transport sector, and, at the same time, to mitigate those fears and threats that have been feared that the extension would not have been carried out by a very small group. So that is where these numbers have come from and, of course, it is appropriate for Parliament to continue the debate and the debate on them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U686	Riina Sikkut, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U687	[[Remote connection]] Thanks for the explanation. I fully understand that the decision of the Supreme Court requires a clearer basis and regulation, but if we are talking about an agreement and whether the extension would be reasonable or legally competent, the sectors are so different that these numerical restrictions are undoubtedly not suitable for many. At the same time, on the side of employers, trade unions and the ministry, there are people who can agree and decide whether this type of agreement can be extended. [No matter whether] it is a good representation or representatives who have the competence and mandate to enter into an agreement that could be extended. Was the creation of a Commission that could decide on the extension considered?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U688	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. In fact, there were different alternatives on the table, including the creation of a separate decision-making body, but, in the trialogue negotiations, just as I referred to, there was an agreement between the Ministry of Social Affairs, trade unions and employers that specific representation standards were fixed in the law. Of course, my appeal to all social partners is certainly in a good way to organise and form trade unions, as well as employers' associations, so that it is possible, in sectors that are very different, but also to conclude different collective agreements, to lay down additional conditions for this particular sector or sector of activity, in addition to pay, these are labour and rest time issues, these are certain benefits or occupational safety issues. In fact, there are quite a number of issues to be resolved within the framework of the collective agreement, and I think that collective agreements are in any case a good form for such adequate and not always legally binding agreements between the social partners. So I suggest and call for this opportunity to be taken in any case.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U689	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U690	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Minister, for these answers. First of all, I would like to acknowledge that this amendment was indeed made in cooperation with the social partners. This is a very good practice in organising economic life, and I hope that it will continue, that the state, businesses and workers will agree among themselves on the regulation that organises their lives. Nevertheless, in this case, the agreement that certain percentages represented must be met deprives a certain number of sectors of the right to extend the collective agreement, and that is also a restriction of their constitutional rights. I understand that this is a church in the middle of a village, but still, did you consider such a solution, for example, that, if these percentages are met, they will enter into a directly expanded collective agreement, but if there are no organisations in the sector that embrace such coverage, then a collective agreement to be extended in this sector can be concluded by the Confederation of Trade Unions and the Confederation of Employers, who are already recognised speakers for workers and entrepreneurs, respectively? They're also signing a minimum wage contract. This would be an opportunity to give all workers the right to an extended collective agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U691	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. As I have pointed out, in theory, all sectors have the right and the opportunity to use this form of collective agreement, it is simply important that certain groups take place in these sectors, both from the point of view of forming and membership and from the view of employers. If these conditions are met, there are no sectoral restrictions. I understand that you meant with the question that, in today's situation, the representation of trade unions and perhaps employers' own representative organisations is not so high, but I think that is the goal to pursue. We had different alternatives on the table, which could be an adequate form, as before I answered Mr Riina Sikkut's question. As I have pointed out, this is a compromise solution agreed between trade unions, employers and the Ministry, so that there is sufficient legal clarity and, at the same time, a certain supervisory role for the Minister to assess whether or not this particular agreement fulfils these conditions. I certainly do not rule out that, in the view of the future, the various possibilities for extending collective agreements can still be reviewed and supplemented. Whether to change these forms of representation or to agree on alternatives would undoubtedly have value in regulating better, more flexible and at the same time more secure employment relationships, taking into account the specificities of sectors.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U692	No further questions. Thank you to the Minister. I call Siret Kotka, representative of the Social Affairs Committee, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U693	[[Remote connection]] Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Social Affairs Committee dealt with the draft law amending the collective agreement law and other laws at its meeting on 10 May. As is the case here today in the plenary hall of the Riigikogu, Minister Tanel Kiik introduced the content and purpose of the Bill 383 of the Collective Agreement. Members of the Commission also had questions, and I will mark and touch them a little bit. The members of the committee were interested in how it was regulated by the trustee's leisure time so that the trustee would not abuse it. It was answered that the division of the working time of the trustees would be agreed by the parties and that the control would be carried out through the employees who chose the trustee. If the trustee does not perform his duties, employees will have the opportunity to choose a new trustee. There was an interest as to whether the rights of the trustee would be extended to the Chairman of the trade union. It was answered that the trustee could be elected either by the employees or by the trade union, and in some cases the trustee and the union chairman could overlap. The aim is to provide each trustee with free time. In addition, there was an interest in the source of remuneration for the trustees when the tasks are performed during working hours. It was answered that the time given to the trustee to carry out his duties was remunerated. The following decisions were taken: to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda on 19 May inclusive (consensually), to propose that the first reading be closed (consensually), to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 4 p.m. (consensually) and to appoint Siret Kotka as rapporteur (consensually). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U694	Thank you. It is also possible to ask questions to the Commission rapporteur, but I do not see any questions. Thank you very much. We now have a chance to negotiate. There's no negotiation request, so let's move on. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 383. The first reading is finished. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 26 May at 16 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U695	Today's item No 12 is the first reading of Bill 381 of the Law amending the Water Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Tõnis Mölder, Minister for the Environment. Please! No, you don't have to put on a mask.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U696	Thank you, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! You have received a draft law amending the Water Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The purpose of the draft law is, in particular, to reduce red tape, to ensure better legal clarity and, at the same time, to correct or supplement the provisions [to resolve problems] which have then arisen in the course of implementing the codified Water Act, which entered into force in October 2019. More important changes. First of all, the Water Act removes the obligation to submit a plan for spreading liquid manure, which concerns about 40 of Estonia's largest dairy farmers and pig farmers. As the information to be included in the manure spreading plan does not clearly reflect the activities to be carried out and all data on the actual use of manure must be recorded in the farm book, it is not reasonable to require a separate information document to be submitted to the Environmental Board prior to application. This will reduce the administrative burden. The obligation to submit a notification for grazing in a water protection zone, to be submitted by livestock farmers grazing more than 10 livestock units for grazing in a water protection zone, is also excluded. Around 300 notifications on grazing in water protection zones are submitted annually to the Environmental Board. The amendments to the legislation have no negative environmental impact since other provisions of the Water Act lay down requirements for the use of liquid manure as fertiliser and for grazing in the water protection zone of animals. Thus, the amendment reduces the administrative burden on farmers as well as the bureaucracy of the Environmental Board. In addition, the law regulates the provisions relating to the designation of nitrate sensitive areas. The right to designate a nitrate sensitive area is, according to today's law, transferred from the Government of the Republic to the Minister for the Environment and the definitions of water protection objects in nitrate sensitive areas, such as karst phenomena, are also specified to ensure better legal clarity. One amendment also concerns the provisions on the management of waste water collection and treatment, which specify the possibility of using waste water collection tanks in high pollution waste water collection areas. The high pollution load is typically more than 2 000 consumers [in the waste water collection area]. According to the amendments, a leak-proof collection tank may also be used in such areas, provided that the environment can be protected equally by the use of the word 'equivalently' collective sewerage. Thus, according to the amendments, the joint sewerage with more than 2000 consumers may not be built on waste water collection areas if it would not be beneficial for the environment or if it would be too costly to set up. The formulation of the term "water body' laid down in the current law has led to different understandings and thus uneven application of the law. We will specify this term within the framework of this law and make it uniformly understandable. The Water Act also introduces amendments to the provisions relating to deepening, according to which the removal of sludge that has settled there for the purpose of maintaining the water body is not considered to be deepened and there is no longer any need to apply for more space for such action. In the future, it will be enough to ask for registration from the Environmental Board. Here too, the administrative burden is decreasing. The law also introduces a number of technical and terminological changes to the provisions relating, for example, to waste water treatment, to the water management plan, to the marine strategy, to the flood [risk] mitigation plan and to testing laboratories. These are the technical changes that we are going to make. It's a brief overview of the entire Water Act. Thank you and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U697	There is an opportunity to ask the Minister questions. I don't see any questions. Thank you, Mr. Mölder. Andres Metsoja, vice-president of the Environment Committee, is now the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U698	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Thank you very much to the Minister for explaining the draft. As a Commission rapporteur, I would not open up the content of the draft further, as the Minister has already done so with sufficient precision for the first reading. Environment Minister Tõnis Mölder, Deputy Chancellor Harry Liiv and Water Specialist Hendrik Põldoja were present on the committee. We got an overview from them. Members of the Commission had questions and a debate, a discussion, was opened. It was opened by Peeter Ernits, who based his question on the fact that the bill is reducing red tape, the workload of the Environmental Board. [He asked that] if the duplication of data that the Minister was just talking about, which was also about, for example, grazing or spreading liquid manure, [don't disappear,] whether there is additional revenue or how the Ministry feels about it. Tõnis Mölder replied that the drafting did not take into account exactly how much the workload of the Environmental Board would decrease. The aim of the draft is to make the system more efficient and to reduce red tape. That's the concept. Peter Ernits also studied the side of the water body in the water law. He asked for this to be clarified in line with the changes to be made. Hendrik Põldoja said that within the meaning of the Water Act, the definition of a water body is the basis for establishing a water protection zone and a construction ban zone, and it is important to protect all large water bodies. If someone is going to deepen the pond in their home garden, it's not wise to demand a water room. The ponds are mostly biotips, aquaculture ponds and ponds with no outflow into other water bodies. Peter Ernist also studied where the limit on the removal of sediment goes. When is this going to be a deepening? He gave an example of peat moats. Hendrik Põldoja said that during the previous Water Act [was] applied, water maintenance work was not considered to be a special use of water and no more room was needed for it. The practice is that those who cleaned the lakes asked the Environmental Board and asked if they could perform the cleaning without permission. The Environmental Board could then measure and take a decision to remove the sediment from its surface. According to the current Water Act, any extraction of sediment is a deepening process. This can lead to excessive bureaucracy, and it makes sense to simplify this process. Jevgeni Ossinovski continued. He also opened an extremely important issue concerning the protection of our groundwater, with a reference to the subject of the Nitrate Zone of groundwater in Pandivere, Adavere and Põltsamaa nitrate sensitive areas. He said that studies have shown that nitrate levels have increased steadily over the decades. He examined what could solve the problem and whether the Minister's decree, which is now going to replace the government's decision, would provide more protection for the environment. Tõnis Mölder said that there is definitely a different starting point here. If we look at the context of the Ministry of Rural Affairs and at the context of the Ministry of the Environment, they cannot be committed to this theme development. He said that the Ministry of the Environment was undoubtedly of the opinion that the use of fertilisers and the reduction and improvement of nitrate sensitive areas through them could be an important objective. Modern technologies and nearer natural fertilisers must be used to achieve the objective. Hendrik Põldoja added that the area to be established by the regulation will remain as large as it is now. He said that the action plan for the nitrate sensitive area had been recently approved and that it would record substantive issues on how the situation of groundwater and surface water could be improved. Further, the discussion on the subject, which is also formulated in this law, went on to be more precise in section 104 (5) of the Water Act. This concerns the establishment of joint sewerage of the waste water collection area. Various legal proceedings have also reached the conclusion that, if its construction leads to unduly high costs or no environmental benefit, waste water collection facilities with a load of 2000 or more human equivalent may be used to collect waste water using leak-proof collection tanks. There was a discussion here about the fact that we have done better than the European directive and we have taken over a higher standard than the directive has called for us. So far, there has also been a fundamental starting point that, wherever possible, waste water collection areas should be made larger, as the problem is keeping small plants in operation so that the waste water that comes out of it also meets the requirements laid down by law. It is now seen that the solution to the problem could actually be leak-proof containers. The rapporteur then asked: "This will create an additional financial obligation for those households who will have to build these leak-proof containers. A separate question arises as to where to empty all the contents of these containers, i.e. whether such a network exists. This discussion reached the point that it needs to be dealt with in Estonia and that additional support measures should probably be envisaged. There was talk of a dispersal water program, but it's probably not enough. The chairman of the committee further examined whether farmers were still sufficiently aware of these nitrate sensitive areas and all these activities. While bureaucracy is being reduced on the one hand, it is important that there are no environmental problems on the other. It was explained that there was a supporting system, training and all necessary. In fact, already in 2016, when my memory does not deceive me, this topic was discussed, so maybe this duplication was unreasonable, but now we have reached the point of trusting our farmers more and getting these things right. It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda today (the decision was consensual), to propose that the first reading be closed, to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 12 noon on 28 May 2021 and to appoint a rapporteur here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U699	Thank you. It's possible to ask questions. Jevgeni Ossinovski, the machine shows you've turned off your microphone. Check it out. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U700	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I have a question about the amendment to the public water supply that is in this draft. Could you explain in a more general way how this draft offers a solution to the concerns of the Supreme Court, which requires local authorities to establish these public water supply and sewerage if the pollution is more than 2,000 units of human beings? Now a few words are added, but what does this mean, in practice, for example, in this question of Kohila municipality, which was the basis of the Supreme Court's decision? Does the local authority have to build a water supply there, or does it now have the opportunity to discharge this obligation on the basis of this amendment to the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U701	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good Evgeny! This is indeed a very important issue, which may have found its place in this technical draft. It is well known that the local government is guided by the rules that have so far stated where public water supply and sewerage are to be provided. It is based on the general regulation of the European Union. Grants have certainly played an important role, as there has not been a very large number of arrangements for public water supply and sewerage in Estonia without subsidies. The emphasis has always been on protecting the environment and groundwater and thereby ensuring the functioning of this infrastructure. On the Commission, I also spoke a little bit about the Ministry's view. In some places in Estonia, in villages where there may be 2000 inhabitants a little more or a little less, there is, for example, a water pipe. Clean water's coming, but it won't go away. Or if it does, it goes into some kind of well built 30 or more years ago. Leak resistance is probably relatively questionable there and it is also relatively difficult to control. People have been waiting for years for this public water supply and sewerage project to come at one point, but there is probably now a message that the public water supply and sewerage development plan, which establishes waste water collection areas, will be changed at local level. It is now possible to change them. Of course, this automatically reduces the contribution of the local government and the state to this area. I understand that in Estonia these stories have actually been going on for a long time, that public water supply and sewerage have already been put in so much money that maybe now it will help. A new circle is coming up, and major cities need to start renovating. It is always said that where, then, the depreciation rate is such that it is possible to restore them for the money that people pay. The polluter-pays principle has now also been reached in public water supply and sewerage. This leads to an increase in the burden on the landowner, the owner of the house. He needs to invest more because if you live in such an area and if your plot is small, if the well is near, it is not possible to install septic tanks in certain areas, the installation of a small cleaner is super expensive, the installation of a leak-proof container could be a cheaper solution, but this should be accompanied by a cost calculation with the nearest cannibal and whether there is a technology in the area and a company that offers this service. So this circle of topics is quite broad, but this approach gives today the opportunity to put this obligation on the citizen's neck and has sounded the answer to the fact that it is a disunity programme from which you can apply for support. On this subject, this volume is quite questionable, and the criteria that are contained in the dispersal programme are geared towards other starting points.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U702	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U703	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Dear waitress, good Andres! Well, I didn't get that much. The range of topics is broad and the subject is complex. You have a local government experience. Try to answer specifically. After all, the explanatory memorandum also refers to a specific court decision in the context of Kohila rural municipality. The Supreme Court found that this local government argument that they do not build a public water supply because they do not have the money to do so does not arise. They must build it up for those citizens who have been promised it so far. As a result of the change offered to us by the honourable Minister for the Environment Mölder, will the municipality of Kohila build [common water supply] or will it be released from this obligation and this great financial exodus will actually be put on people?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U704	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I guess I was trying to illustrate this situation, not in a narrow way from a court decision. Of course, it is an opportunity to put this action on the citizen. The content of this decision states that a balance must be sought between money and the environment, and it basically gives the public sector the opportunity not to do this, but to put it on the citizen.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U705	No more questions for the waitress, we can open negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation either. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 381. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments on 28 May. 12:00 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U706	Today's 13th item is the first reading of Bill 372 of the Law on Conformity of Products, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and related amendments to other laws. The rapporteur is Mr Andres Sutt, Minister for Entrepreneurship and Information Technology. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U707	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I present today a draft law which will make it easier to withdraw dangerous products from the market, particularly in the case of e-commerce. This is necessary in order to achieve a situation where all businesses can operate under the same rules and consumers' confidence in the market is growing. The COVID crisis has accelerated the growth of e-commerce and the number of online shopping transactions has increased significantly. Thus, there is also an increased risk that end-users may be reached by products that do not meet their expectations and which may later also be a burden on our waste management system. From 16 July, the so-called market surveillance regulation directly applicable to the European Union will enter into force, which also provides for clarification in our legal order. We have tried to build on the principle that the obligations imposed on economic operators and the rights conferred on market surveillance authorities are to be achieved in proportion to the desired objective. Today, it is difficult for market surveillance authorities to identify economic operators responsible for imported but non-compliant products. That is why we are imposing an obligation to designate a contact person in the European Union, specifically for products ordered from third countries, who can be contacted if problems arise. Even if a contact person has been identified, it may not respond to a call by market surveillance authorities and may continue to sell a dangerous product. Therefore, in the absence of a serious threat and other possibilities, we give market surveillance authorities the right to request the removal of content from a web interface such as a website or application manager or a warning to dry out. We also give market surveillance authorities the right to request the necessary and minimum amount of data from the electronic communications undertaking to identify the owner of the website. In addition, we want to allow the control official, for example, to use a fictitious name at the e-shop or platform when making the control transaction in order to avoid a situation in which an undertaking issues a different product to the official. A control transaction is only permitted as a special measure in exceptional circumstances where supervision is not otherwise possible or significantly difficult. In the interests of equal treatment of economic operators, we will also harmonise some of the fines imposed by law. The law enters into force in general and the draft has been coordinated with economic operators through professional associations. Dear members of the Riigikogu, I ask you to support the bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U708	Thank you. Questions can be asked to the rapporteur. I don't see any questions. Ah! Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U709	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good waitress! Just a technical question. Are you actually talking to us from Brussels? If so, you must be the first minister to present a bill from Brussels or somewhere else you went.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U710	[[Remote connection]] Yes, it is true that I make a presentation at the Estonian diplomatic mission in Brussels, so the teleworking system of the Riigikogu works very well. Tomorrow is the Council of Trade Ministers of the European Union, and that is why I am doing this [presentation] here today.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U711	There you go! But there are no more questions. The next rapporteur is Mr Raimond Kaljulaid, member of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U712	[[Remote connection]] Good evening to all good fellows. It is extremely nice that we have come to such an important issue in this late evening as the draft law amending the Product Compliance Act and, in connection with it, the amendment of other laws. The Committee on Economic Affairs examined this draft and discussed it at its meeting on 10 May. Mr Andres Sutt, Minister for Entrepreneurship and Information Technology, as well as representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, attended this meeting, who, as officials, supplemented the Minister's replies. Of the members of the Commission, Mr Kaljulaid, who is currently doing this presentation, asked questions about the draft. I wanted to receive further information from the Minister on the draft on the issue of the right of market surveillance authorities to receive information from the electronic communications company. In essence, this means that these institutions can determine, on the basis of the IP address, whether the IP addresses related to certain websites are backed by a legal person or a natural person. Just to clarify that the institutions we are talking about are not one or two, there are actually six. These are the Environmental Inspectorate, Road Administration, Agricultural Board, Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority, Health Board and Maritime Administration, who are entitled to make these enquiries to the communication operators. I wanted to know about this from the Minister at the meeting of the Commission. On the one hand, it is very right that this data can be obtained, especially when we are talking about toys or when we are talking about personal protective equipment. But on the other hand, of course, it must be ensured that this right is not abused. The Minister asked the Ministry staff member Thea Palm to comment on this fact in greater detail. According to Thea Palm, Head of the Product Safety and Consumer Protection Department of the Department for the Business and Consumption Environment of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, this is a novel competence for these supervisory authorities and it is necessary to specify how these enquiries will be transmitted and to conclude appropriate cooperation agreements with them, which will establish more precise privacy restrictions and also the provisions of the Data Protection Regulation that adapt to the supervisory authorities. They shall not release the data they receive to third parties and the processing of the data shall be in accordance with the Regulation. I asked you to specify who will decide whether there is a reason to contact the communications company to get this data to find out who the person behind the IP address is. On this point, Minister Sutt replied that all the supervisory authorities had clearly regulated how such enquiries would be conducted and who would grant the powers. Such enquiries shall be documented and it shall always be possible to verify ex post whether this right has been lawfully exercised. Thea Palm stated that the authorities had Directors-General who could grant the relevant powers. I have also examined who the decision-maker is, who will assess whether this appeal is justified. Is that a communications company? On this point, Thea Palm replied that it had to work in cooperation with a liaison company, who had to follow the rules on data protection, which I said that it was actually about granting quite a few new rights to a number of agencies, and that is a question that the Riigikogu must certainly seriously consider. Following this debate, it was first decided to propose that the Commission put the draft on the plenary agenda today. The decision was consensual, everyone was in favour of it. No one opposed, no one even abstained. It was also decided to propose the termination of the first reading, and this decision too, I am very pleased to say, was consensual. This was supported by all members of the Commission present. That concludes my report. Thank you all for your attention and I am ready to answer the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U713	Thank you very much. It's possible to ask questions, but it doesn't look like they're there. In that case, it is possible to negotiate. There is no wish for negotiation. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 372 be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments on 2 June. 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U714	Today's 14th item is the first reading of the eIdentification and Trust Services Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Identity Documents Act and the Amendment Act 376. The rapporteur is Mr Andres Sutt, Minister for Entrepreneurship and Information Technology. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U715	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Today I present to you as a second draft draft of the Law on e-Identification and Trust Services for e-transactions initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Act on Identity Documents and the Amendment of the Law on State Fees. This is a draft, which we are probably all familiar with as an incentive to draw up. This is the security weakness of the ID card discovered in 2017, after which both MKM and the Ministry of the Interior began to thoroughly analyse the legal space in the field of electronic identity, i.e. eID, in order to find places where both the everyday efficiency of the institutions and the crisis management capacity can be improved. As a result of the work carried out, it became apparent that the eID area needs to be modernised so as to make it clearer and to allow more efficient division of labour for the institutions. This is where the first objective of the draft is raised: to resolve the specific shortcomings identified by the analysis that followed the resolution of the security weakness. For example, the draft will move the contact point for cooperation between Member States, arising from the European Union eID Regulation or eIDAS, from the Police and Border Guard Board, to the National Information System Authority, where the vast majority of specialists with the technical competence needed to carry out this task are concentrated. Resolving security weaknesses also showed that taking up these tasks with the right competences could help to avoid excessive time when problems arise. At the same time, continuous process review, competence development and risk mitigation are also a inherent part of smart risk management. Another important objective of the draft is to step towards the private sector as a country in the eID area. In other words, the draft establishes a clear and simple procedure for assessing the level of reliability of eID systems set up by private operators. Today, we are in a situation where private sector solutions have emerged alongside public eID tools, such as ID cards or mobile IDs, whose user community is at least equivalent to public funds, which in turn means that public e-services providers, or public authorities, are very interested in having access to public services with private eID tools. However, the EU eID Regulation, also known as eIDAS, obliges public authorities to assess the level of reliability of all eID tools they use to enable access to their services. The high level of reliability of national eID tools is known to the authorities, in particular because the process of setting up and managing them has been under state control since planning and procurement. In addition, the level of these instruments has been validated by other EU Member States. However, as regards private eID tools, the level of credibility assessment has not been regulated in any way so far, and therefore, in the light of their knowledge and in consultation with the RIA, the authorities have so far resolved these issues on an ongoing basis. Understandably, this approach is unsustainable, which is why the draft provides for a simple and central solution to be created to assess the credibility of private eID funds instead of the existing fragmentation. From a market position, the central national assessment may also be useful for companies providing eIDs. This is a sign of credibility, which could potentially have an impact on sales in foreign markets as well. According to the draft, the evaluation of private eID tools will be carried out by the State Information System Authority, or RIA, and all institutions will be able to rely on the credibility assessment provided by the RIA in the future. Inevitably, this task increases the workload of the RIA and other experts involved in the evaluation, which is why the draft stipulates that the evaluation is a state-feesed activity. The purpose of the State fee is to cover at least part of the costs of the assessment. Three. The EU eID regulation, which has already been mentioned, also provides that the e-services provided by our public authorities must also enable citizens of other Member States of the European Union to be logged in, using the same secure eID tools as our ID card or mobile ID. Most of the performance of this obligation is good in Estonia, but there are also individual shortcomings. This requirement must be systematically monitored in order to detect problems in a timely manner and be resolved smoothly. The draft therefore entrusts the RIA with the task of acting as a supervisory authority to monitor compliance with the obligation under European Union law in Estonia. This must in future ensure that there are no undue delays in complying with the recognition obligation. In addition to the above, the draft contains minor amendments which also update the legal space concerning identity documents and thus promote internal security. For example, the obligation under European Union law to transfer people's fingerprint data to the ID-card chip, like the passport, will be taken over. The draft also harmonises the validity of diplomatic passports with that of citizens' passports. Perhaps in the future diplomatic passports will also be valid for 10 years instead of the current five years. This will result in a reduction in the cost of issuing diplomatic passports. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! In conclusion, this is a draft which will make the work of public authorities more efficient and allow for more transparent cooperation with the private sector. I count on your support and thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U716	Thank you very much. No questions for the waitress. Thank you to the Minister. I call Jüri Jaanson, representative of the Economic Commission, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U717	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This is a very important draft for the development of the digital state. This draft was discussed by the Commission on 10 May. a. The Commission took part in its full membership and was invited by Andres Sutt, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology, with representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The minister introduced the draft, as he did now, and was quite thorough. And then the members of the Commission also asked some questions. It was examined, for example, that since nine more jobs need to be made at the National Information System Office, there was a question about the cost of salary and how the resources would be found for it. The Minister replied that a long-term solution needed to be found in the basic fund, but certainly no nine jobs needed to be created at the same time. The officials commented that it is now known from the country's budget strategy that funding for these jobs is not available and that negotiations are taking place, how and what positions can be put together and what alternative solutions are available. What is important here, however, is that the draft itself does not create the need for job creation, as this need existed before. The draft was drawn up before the national budget strategy was put together and [therefore] it was examined whether the request for funding had been granted. The Minister commented that it is possible to find these people internally, but the country's budgetary strategy is not about specific amounts, but about a general view. At the same time, the Minister believes that a strong economy will ensure better budgeting and that a number of additional needs can certainly be addressed in the next country's budget strategy. It was also examined whether, if this assessment of the reliability of private operators had been similar in the past, the ID card crisis would have appeared to a lesser extent. According to the Minister, the crisis has been used in a good way and its conclusions have been drawn from it. The officials also said that the crisis could certainly have been resolved more effectively thanks to this draft. It was also examined whether the level of reliability of the electronic identification system should be equivalent to the level of reliability indicated by the electronic identification service provider and what happens if, for example, the level is not equivalent but the level of service provider is better. This was answered by the officials of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications that if an entrepreneur submits an application to the RIA, or the State Information System Authority, he would indicate the level to which the instrument he was offering corresponds. The Agency shall verify whether the level is indeed equivalent. Where an undertaking assesses itself at a higher level than the Information Systems Agency, they shall refrain from taking a decision. The same applies to the contrary [in circumstances]. This means that the undertaking must know exactly what its level of credibility is and describe it. Then the decisions were made. It was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda today, 19 May, and it was also proposed to close the first reading. Both decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U718	There are no questions for the rapporteur. We can now negotiate. There is no wish for negotiation either. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 376. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 2 June at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U719	Let's move on to our agenda. Agenda item No 15, Estonian development plan for research and development, innovation and entrepreneurship in 2021 to 2035. The rapporteur is Andres Sutt, Minister for Entrepreneurship and Information Technology. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U720	[[Remote connection]] Honourable Riigikogu! Today is the historic moment when I present the joint development plan of the two ministers before the Riigikogu. Although I will introduce it alone, we will certainly share its objectives and values with the Minister of Education and Research. Past experience in the preparation and implementation of development plans has been limited to the mutual involvement of ministries, and joint responsibility at ministerial level has so far not been shared. There is also a historic moment in the sense that never before has 1% of GDP been allocated from the state budget to support R &amp; D and innovation. Never before has the Estonian state invested so much in R &amp; D and innovation. It is also a historic moment that Estonian science has never been so outstanding before. The University of Tartu as an Estonian national university has reached the top 300 universities in the world and is the number one indisputable among universities in Central and Eastern Europe. Estonian researchers and innovators have received 2.4 times the EU average funding from the European Union programme compared to our GDP. Estonia has excellent research infrastructure. Our scientists have reached the world's most quoted scientists. Our task is to preserve these achievements and link them to the development of Estonian society and economy. The turn of green, digital and innovation must be seen as an opportunity, not a threat. We also need changes in R &amp; D, innovation and entrepreneurship to exploit these opportunities. We need international ambition and courage to move forward. What are the main challenges facing the area on which we are looking for a solution? The results of research are not sufficiently applied in Estonian society. Our science is good, but we do not use it enough to meet society's development needs, to solve problems and to achieve economic goals. Secondly, there is a lack of breakthrough innovation in our companies. The research and technology intensity of Estonian companies, the ability to create new business models, knowledge and technologies to adapt and adopt and to create high value added products and services is small or, in any case, smaller than they should be. A system to support the growth of business innovation capacity therefore needs to be strengthened. And thirdly, we don't have people who can or would like to do research and development. There are too few scientists and engineers and there are few outside the academy in other sectors and areas. Estonia is in a modest position in the OECD countries in terms of the number of researchers per 1000 employees, especially in the private sector. Fourthly, cooperation between R &amp; D, innovation and business actors is weak. Research institutions, companies, representative organisations, ministries, implementing bodies and other actors often act in their own right and these activities are fragmented. They do not have sufficiently clearly defined common goals, and this is certainly the reason why there is little motivation and capacity to work together. In view of these challenges, a sectoral development plan has been developed for the next 15 years. I think it's clear to everyone that we need change. We need R &amp; D, innovation and entrepreneurship to meet the needs of society's development, not only serve the interests of our sector or sector, but also society in general. We need Estonian entrepreneurship to become more science and technology-intensive. This would increase the added value and increase the productivity of the economy. We need science and researchers to grow in influence, so that researchers are good and recognised partners, both for businesses and for the public sector, in addressing problems and developing solutions. Excellence in science is a prerequisite for these changes, and we will certainly maintain and develop this high level of science. When we talk about the targets that have been set, in order for these changes to be possible, a common objective has been formulated to ensure the development of the sector. The aim of the development plan is to increase the welfare and economic productivity of Estonian society in conjunction with Estonian research and development, innovation and entrepreneurship, offering competitive and sustainable solutions to the development needs of Estonia as well as the wider world. I would like to stress that in order to achieve the objective and ambition of all of us in terms of prosperity, our productivity levels should rise to 110% of the European Union average. This means significantly greater contribution to knowledge-based and innovative solutions. We need to increase the research intensity of Estonian society, be an example for entrepreneurs as a state, keeping the level of funding for R &amp; D at least 1% of GDP. We want this to lead to an increase in the research-intensive investment of companies, because private enterprise also plays a very important role in ensuring that we achieve this 110% level. We also consider it important that our future activities and investments contribute both to solving Estonia's development needs and to making better use of the activities and strengths of Estonian entrepreneurship and science in creating breakthrough products and services with high business potential. It is also important for us to move in the same direction as the European Union's strategic goals, taking into account the European Union's green agreement, the objectives of the digital revolution, the different opportunities for cooperation between value chains, as well as between supply chains and research activities. All of this must further broaden the opportunities of Estonian researchers and entrepreneurs, especially in terms of exports. How do we meet this common goal? The activities of the development plan focus on three strands, the foundation of which is the overall development of the research system and the business environment. We need to ensure that we have a high level, effective and diverse research, strong research institutions, an active research community and its successor, a good level of research infrastructure and opportunities for international cooperation. We also need to ensure that we have a supportive business environment that promotes entrepreneurship, provides competitive conditions for research-intensive entrepreneurship and growth in the world, supports the creation and export of products and services with higher added value and research-intensive investment. And that's all over Estonia. We make Estonia the best business environment in the world, which attracts research-intensive investments and talent! Thirdly, a strong bridge between the two is essential to enable the circulation of knowledge and ideas between the research and business system and, as a result, the creation and use of new innovative solutions in society. There is a need to increase incentives and skills for cooperation between researchers, businesses and the public sector, as it is only in this way that solutions can be found to the challenges, be they more closely linked to the activities of businesses or to the wider challenges facing society. The development plan also identifies five priority areas which are key to achieving the objectives of the development plan, in particular to facilitate knowledge transfer, cooperation between public enterprises and research institutions, linking different sectors of the economy and research areas. It is important to contribute to the creation and introduction of digital solutions in all areas of business and life, so that we develop and use more innovative health technologies and services, so that we pay more attention to the enhancement of local resources, so that we develop and use smart and sustainable energy solutions so that Estonian society, language and cultural space develop and become viable. The key activities of the development plan are important, and they are a long line for this, but I would like to highlight the most important here. Firstly, in order to develop the research system, we will ensure the necessary funding and funding of the core instruments in such a way as to maintain a high level of science and sectoral diversity and to support the strategic objectives of research institutions. We support the implementation of a flexible, site-specific, academic career model that takes into account different aspects of research. We will continue the reform of doctoral studies so that doctoral students become junior researchers, guaranteeing them social guarantees and an appropriate income. We will continue to support excellence and centres of excellence. We support the development of research infrastructure services, the opening up of businesses, as well as public authorities, and provide researchers with opportunities for international cooperation. The business side is also important. With this development plan, we also ensure the necessary innovation services, support system and access to networks for companies in all areas of Estonia, reducing the administrative burden on companies in providing public services, and launching an innovation agency. The forthcoming merger between KredEx and EAS is certainly an important element in building organisational capacity that will help to achieve the R&D&I objectives. We encourage the introduction of new technologies in businesses, including the introduction of artificial intelligence and robotics, access to international technology centres, the transition to a low carbon and circular economy. We support the development of a knowledge-intensive start-up ecosystem. We provide companies with opportunities for international cooperation and encourage exports and research-intensive foreign investments. For the circulation of knowledge and for more effective cooperation between companies and research institutions, we support applied research and experimental development. I think this is one of the key points for achieving and increasing innovation intensity throughout the economy. We offer research institutions and businesses opportunities to develop knowledge transfer skills, including through awareness raising and school activities. We will create better opportunities for researchers to move between businesses and research institutions, thereby also supporting a doctorate in entrepreneurship. We also carry out thematic research programmes based on the interests of companies. Honourable Riigikogu! You will be faced with the R &amp; D, innovation and business development plan, which will formulate the development goals of the sector and set the lines of action for the next 15 years. The emphasis of the development plan has certainly changed compared to the previous one. The focus of the Action Plan is on creating a strong bridge between science and entrepreneurship, but also more broadly between society, so that the knowledge it creates is used to develop and implement innovative solutions. More important than before is the influence of science and researchers and the use of research results to meet Estonia's development needs, while maintaining our scientific excellence. And thirdly, in supporting entrepreneurship, the focus shifts from export intensity to knowledge intensity and innovation, i.e. increasing added value. If I look back in history, in 2021 we will have just as big and as weighty options as the 1992 monetary reform or membership of the European Union in 2004. We need courage at risk and international ambition in order to achieve the objectives set. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U721	Thank you very much. It is possible to ask questions to the Minister. I would point out that we have two presentations under this item and that each member of the Riigikogu can ask a question to each of the rapporteurs. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U722	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Well, those development plans are, like they always are. There's nothing to blame for. This list took, I looked at, you too smiling about developing and improving and creating incentives. What is objectively getting better in this area is definitely dependent on the good Estonian people in the various institutions that work for the quality of science. They will probably do so in the new period, and with more money they will do it even better. But my question concerns higher education. As we know, the quality of Estonian research is based on this foundation, which is a strong higher education system. If we have any extra money for research and development, then higher education is very difficult. In what way do you see the possibility of resolving the issue of underfunding for higher education?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U723	Thank you for your question. We have discussed this issue with both the University of Tartu and TalTech. My own opinion is that the focus of the question is, above all, how to get to the money of the education system, including the higher education system. I think that the whole financing model is very important in this key. And therefore, in my opinion, a proper debate is a worthy issue that we can do with the financing model for higher education. The issue of higher education exports is also very important to me. As I said in the presentation, the University of Tartu has very strongly increased its position in the ranking and I see no reason why Estonian science could not be an important export product. If we are to aim for our science and higher education to be an export product in relations with the Member States of the European Union and with the OECD Member States, then that is the right aim. With this export of higher education, we can also mobilise additional funding. This is an important issue that needs a thorough approach and a separate debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U724	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U725	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Thank you for this beautiful speech, with a lot of great slogans. I especially liked that Estonia would become the best science-based economy and industry. I'm not even gonna pick on how to do this. But I was intrigued by another question. You said there was a particular emphasis in this action plan on the follow-up of scientists. I didn't find a section in this development plan. Why don't you enlighten me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U726	In the case of researchers' offspring, the first question is how we can increase doctoral studies in Estonia. This is what we were actually talking about at the last meeting of the Scientific and Development Council. Being responsible for entrepreneurship itself, I am very sympathized with the idea of a doctorate in entrepreneurship. And with that, we certainly want to move on. In fact, I also stress what was said at the beginning of the speech that the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications are setting these objectives together and are also looking for financing jointly, increasing cooperation with businesses. I think that these are all activities that will help to advance both science and knowledge-intensive entrepreneurship. My own opinion is that if we do not set ambitious goals and goals, our science will not develop, our entrepreneurship will not develop and our society will not develop. In my opinion, this development plan sets a very clear, very measurable objective. We are talking about 110% of labour productivity compared to the European Union average and achieving this goal requires very much more investment in research and very much more investment in private R &amp; D. I think that both entrepreneurship and science will benefit from the combined effect of these two activities and we will be able to attract more private money to be attractive to talent, to keep our talents here and to attract them elsewhere. The fight for talent is one of the most important, and if we also look at the demographic situation in Estonia, the more so. I believe that once we have set these ambitious targets, we will work together to ensure that these objectives are met.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U727	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U728	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Exporting higher education is certainly a good idea, but I fear that we should first think about the domestic consumer. It seems to me that more and more recently, we are getting closer and closer to the subject of paid or, at least in part, paid higher education. How do you feel about that? What is your position on making higher education pay? After all, higher education is the stage of growth in our research development, and how can it affect if access to higher education is reduced? How can this affect Estonia's research, development and overall innovation and entrepreneurship in the long term?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U729	Higher education needs funding, and the question is where does this money come from, which are sources of funding in the field. Its source of funding is now the state budget. I also talked about it when I answered one question. The higher education system actually needs more money. When we talk about education or higher education, some programmes are subject to a fee, there is one very important criterion for me. And this criterion is that there must also be a relevant system of student loans and scholarships. No young person must stay at the door because he or she lacks financial means. The Estonian student loan system has fallen behind in time and clearly needs reform, and thorough reform. I think this, too, is part of an in-depth debate that we must hold in order to ensure that Estonian science and Estonian entrepreneurship are internationally competitive. There is no point in doing something that is not world-class. If we want to be among the best, offer our people the best higher education that young people in other countries want to receive here, because we are just so good, it also requires a thorough consideration of how we finance this education. And as I said, those young people who cross the threshold get accepted to the university must not fall out because they do not have the money to finance their studies. This is all done, let's look at the experiences of other countries and make a system that develops education in both science and entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U730	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U731	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. It is certainly necessary to help these young students, but rather, the education allowance system in Estonia has always been poor. Young people in loan slavery, people starting family life in Estonia, I think, do not really need more. But science really does not take the form of postgraduate teachers or students without effective higher education institutions, and we have talked here about this problem of funding higher education. The real problem is that the state simply does not contribute as much as was agreed in 2012. The current government has gone down the road. If you're going to present us with this strategy, you should have some kind of plan in the government on how to proceed. My question is: how do you actually intend to finance higher education?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U732	I think I have answered this question from different angles here and opened up this issue, but I am happy to do it again. When we talk about funding for higher education, and we also talk about how many students we may have, it is clear that the demographic trend is also reflected in those generations that are now starting higher education. We also need more students in my opinion. That is why I have also spoken about the export of education. I have never said that university funding should be reduced in any way compared to today. On the contrary, I think that the more we can bring together entrepreneurship and science, precisely through applied research, just as Finland or Singapore or Germany, for example, or the United States, are doing better. We need to take all our debate to this level, which we can do here in Estonia, so that we are the best at something in the world. If we don't look at it from this angle, we're bound to stick to the level we've reached today. I believe that our science, our business and our young people have much more potential. Finding the funding is always possible. I don't think the state budget can be, and it doesn't have to be, the only source. Let's take a look out of the box. We will find these solutions and we will get a very good or, say, an even better higher education system, even better and even more innovative entrepreneurship. And we will reach the threshold of the objectives that we have set in this strategy.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U733	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U734	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you for your review. Such slogans and sentences are, of course, nice to listen to. I understand that as your Minister for Entrepreneurship and Information Technology, you talk a great deal about entrepreneurship and business cooperation and innovation. But I have a very big request that you do not forget about social scientists and this area. I did not see much of the views on this issue in this development plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U735	Every field of science is important to me. I don't think it's right that we make a ranking in this sense. But if we look at what kind of education, even what kind of higher education young people want, there should still be a link to the needs of the labour market. And the needs of the labour market, both on the entrepreneurship side and, of course, on the science side. After all, every young person goes to higher education with the aim of exercising himself in an area of interest to him or her. But in the end, it is also a bit of a demand-side option. Social sciences are equally necessary. I have met a lot of business organisations, I have spoken to TalTech, I have spoken to the University of Tartu. It is still very strong that there is the greatest shortage of higher education graduates in the field of engineering. And we have to ask why young people have not wanted to go there. I can give one concrete example where there has actually been very good cooperation between entrepreneurship and higher education. This is the Cleveron Academy, where there was a competition for five people. I think we're looking for and finding these solutions. When we look at Ida-Virumaa, there is also a huge demand for the finaliters of engineering. However, social sciences are equally important and, I think, their funding is also necessary and these subjects must be studied. In order for us to be better able to finance our higher education, the so-called economic pizza must be made bigger. Otherwise, we'll move the money out of someone's pocket into someone else's pocket, and it won't take us any further. I am an economic man and I also look at education from an economic perspective. We cannot only think about how we move money from one pocket to another, but we also need to think about how we can have more opportunities. I think that's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U736	Ivi Eenmaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U737	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Minister, thank you very much. I think that your presentation really is about the future of Estonia and the people who are going to direct it to the future of Estonia. Thank you so much for that! But I have a few questions. Do you dare to point out, for example, in what area could such explosive discoveries be expected in Estonia? That's one. Secondly, we have had a great deal of talk in the Riigikogu Hall about the extinction of miners and therefore the possible sale of our mineral resources. Knowing also this green and digital revolution, I ask: do we have in this area, I mean in the mining area as a whole, technologies to learn and teach?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U738	Thank you for your question. I think an explosive discovery is a very good question. If I knew that, a lot of problems would have been solved. But my not very long life experience shows that many great things happen because of coincidences and coincidences. However, they still happen because there are active people in both science and business, and the great things are still born when these two parties come together. I'm gonna go back in time. No one of us knew how big it could be...... or that anyone thought there would be seven unicorns in Estonia by 2021. [[Connection Chops]] I don't think any of us know what potential future companies can start in Ida-Virumaa because there is production competence there. I've been to Ida-Virumaa a few times and met several companies and I know there are a lot of projects that are in preparation... [[The sound's cracking.]] In the last visit to Tartu, we also visited the Estonian Genome Museum. I think there is also a great deal of potential, for example in the field of medicine and... I think what we can do as a country is to create conditions and a legal framework that gives science and entrepreneurship the opportunity to experiment. And it is precisely this need to test, the courage to take risks and the courage to set international great goals that will lead forward. No unicorn would have been born in Estonia if they had thought only of the Estonian market. We would never have gotten to where we have come from if we had not dared to undertake reforms and other radical decisions in the early 1990s or dared to set the goal of being a member of NATO and the European Union. The question today is, in fact, whether we dare to look to the future and whether we dare to set great goals. I think we're brave, and that's right about the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U739	Andres, we've got a technical problem, you're breaking up a lot. Looks to me like we've got some kind of connection overloaded, but let's try and keep going. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U740	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. Greetings to Brussels! THAILAND also has focus areas in place. On the one hand, digital solutions in all areas of life, such as health, resources, energy solutions, Estonian language, culture, cover a very wide area. How did these focussings come into place? Secondly, it is also necessary to set priorities within it and to choose more specific topics. If no decisions have been made to fund secondary education and there is no money in research, higher education will be paid, what are the instruments with which the state can direct action in these areas of focus?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U741	Thank you, Riina! Let me give you an example of a recent study. This survey reflected Estonia's...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U742	Andres, I'm sorry! We can't hear you. I have a request. I'm gonna take a two or three-minute break, you do the restaurate and we'll try again. Our technician says the mistake isn't on our side. Three minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-19_U743	The last question could not be answered because the ministerial association was very poor. Let us try to answer that last question. Andres Sutt, please, microphone and camera! I should've finished... It's not our fault. What do we do now? More recess?
