ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60543	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Before you is the government's proposal for a national programme to combat corruption in 2006-2008. This proposal continues with a consistent implementation of the Government's 2003-2007 programme adopted by this honorable House. Before the presentation itself, I would like to point out that this programme was originally created by the expert working group, that it was then completed by the proposals of anti-corruption measures of certain ministries and was eventually discussed on the round table of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts, attended by a number of scientists, representatives of the judiciary, businessmen, representatives of civil society and NGOs. The debate in the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts supported this programme and the constructive remarks presented were also included in this final text of the proposal for a programme that is ahead of you. It should also be pointed out that this national programme is not designed because we are required by the European Union but because of ourselves, because Croatia really needs to be a state of rule of law and should be a state in which Croatian citizens will not feel helpless before the system of government, either political, judicial, legislative, health or any system. The government of the Republic of Croatia considered this document and referred it to the parliamentary procedure and today's first item of the agenda is really important for the benefit of all of us. The issue of corruption is not only a matter of one government but it is a matter of the national interest of the Republic of Croatia, so in the fight against it we expect a consensus of all parliamentary parties. I would like to stress that this national programme does not move from zero when it comes to fighting corruption in Croatia. Since 2004, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament have so far taken a series of measures and numerous amendments to the laws that have brought the legal system into line with the acquis of the European Union, and because of the constitutional principles of rule of law, they have acted to combat corruption. The development of an electronic administration or E-Croatia project involves one of the steps taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on this path. With the adoption of the strategy and the implementation plan of the "Hritro.hr" programme in December 2004, the Government of the Republic of Croatia launched the implementation of the "Hritro.hr" programme with the aim of enabling users of state administration services to provide public services in one place without the necessary knowledge of the competence and organisational structure of individual authorities of the state administration. One of the most important results of the reform launched by the judiciary is the reform of land books, which includes the harmonisation of cadastrian and land-book data and the creation of a single database at national level available through the network. In the meantime, the E-katstar project, which includes 16 and a half million parcels on the Internet, ends the digitisation of land books expected soon, will reduce the possibility of manipulation of information available to the public, and by allowing such insight into any change in land-book conditions reduces the possibility of abuse of the powers of official persons in solving individual cases. Amendment to the 2004 Penal Code includes UN Anti-Corruption Convention solutions and sanctions have been imposed for the offences of active and passive bribery in the public and private sectors, active and passive mediation, bribery of domestic and foreign officials, money laundering, obstruction of justice, abuse of positions, embezzlements, etc. Amendments to the 2005 Law on the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime have strengthened the main role of offices in the prevention and prosecution of corruption. More specifically, mandated, mutual relations and co-operation between state attorneys, police and other bodies in the detection of criminal offences. The Law on Criminal Procedure, the Special Law on USKOK and, in particular, its 2005 amendments, provide for a number of institutes to facilitate the detection of corruption. According to the "transparency International" index, in 1999, the Republic of Croatia was 74th place on a scale of countries with widespread corruption, while Croatia took 70th place on the mentioned scale in 2005. The European Commission's Avis particularly highlights the problem of corruption. Many public change research shows that citizens perceive and believe that corruption exists and is spread in the judiciary, health care, local self-government and political parties. Economic research also shows that corruption is a serious threat to Croatian economic development. The goal of the national anti-corruption programme is to reduce corruption to a level from which there will be no obstacle to Croatia's social, economic and political development. However, the anti-corruption programme will act in the direction that corrupt people are singled out and sanctioned, strengthened professional ethics and guaranteed a smooth development of state and local administration, entrepreneurship and economy, to provide citizens with responsible public administration in the service of citizens and to restore citizens' trust in local and state government. This anti-corruption programme contains a defined framework of measures and deadlines for bodies of legislative, executive and judicial authorities. It is important to point out that the prevention of corruption is the most important part of the anti-corruption programme because the responsible authorities must plan and implement preventive anti-corruption control measures because only continuous action systematically curbs corruption. I will now present the key parts of the National Corruption Prevention Programme. The anti-corruption programme contains prevention, detection and punishment, international cooperation and public action and implementation of the programme. In each part, measures are defined to achieve a synergy effect on corruption through joint action. I repeat, the prevention of corruption is the most important part of the anti-corruption programme, and it is therefore very important that all operators take the measures as their priority. Since public change research has shown that corruption exists and has spread in the judiciary, health care, local self-government and in political parties, the anti-corruption programme has paid the most attention to these areas. I note here that I am in order does not mean ranking the extent of corruption in certain areas. Justice. The reforms implemented by the Ministry of Justice as part of the government's Justice Reform Strategy to increase the efficiency of the judiciary also directly relate to the overall anti-corruption policy. In order to prevent and combat corruption, even more vigorous judicial reform is necessary to resolve the remaining accumulated backlogs in courts, solve all cases that exceed the time limit for a reasonable trial within a reasonable period of time, so all cases older than three, especially those that last 10 years and more. Furthermore, it is necessary, in particular by introducing an integrated system for the information management of court cases in an even and objective manner, respecting the court's human resources and the burden of each judge to deploy court cases in such a way that the length of the court proceedings is not reduced to a minimum level. The Anti-Corruption Programme as one of the measures provides for property cards for judges and state lawyers, but the Court Act stipulates that judges are required to submit a report to the Ministry of Justice on their assets. It is also necessary to ensure mechanisms and to monitor the application of the criteria prescribed by the Court Act in the appointment and promotion of judges. The holders of these measures are the Ministry of Justice, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia and the State Attorney's Office. As part of the judicial reform, the ministry of justice has already implemented some of the measures that have been put into effect, which will continuously improve the system. However, in the short term it is necessary to move forward with pilot projects to streamline the network of courts and state attorneys to continue to deal with and publish court practice on the Internet and to work to strengthen professional ethics and responsibilities among judicial professionals, especially with judges. Health care. Health care is an area perceived as one of the most corrupt. We all know that the health care of citizens is important and the task of the state is to ensure everyone's right to a primary and quality health care service. The situation in Croatia is not pink and the only systematic health reform that includes systematic removal of causes can suppress corruption and restore trust in health. The anti-corruption programme brings a number of measures to improve the health situation. This is primarily the preparation of a project of thorough health reform with a proposal for the development of a public health system and private entrepreneurship in health care and the development of a network of specialist hospitals and hospitals. Furthermore, it is necessary to prepare a proposal for reforming the health insurance system, reorganising the emergency health system and primary health care, setting out clearly the criteria for treatment and setting out the criteria for waiting lists for reviews and tests to be made available to the public. Local self-government. The Anti-Corruption Programme requires holders, in advance of all the Central State Administration Offices, to ensure supervision of the legality of the work of local services, to find a model and enforcement of the Law on Elections for Local Self-Government Authorities and to strengthen the supervision of the use of local funds. Preventing corruption at local level will also contribute to changes to the electoral legislation by which citizens will directly elect their local officials. Politics and public administration. The political will and determination to combat corruption best shows, the political will best shows the intention of resolutely curbing corruption in politics and authorities. Making a special Law on the financing of political parties, the government shows its determination to curb corruption through an anti-corruption programme. The adoption of this Act will regulate sources of funding for political parties and will make the political parties' financial report available to the public. The law will be drawn up in such a way as to build on the best practice of the European Union countries. Furthermore, it is necessary to ensure consistent implementation of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties in the State administration to develop the professionalism and expertise of civil servants, to gradually introduce decentralisation by applying and to ensure the application of the principle of subsidiarity. Based on the example of countries developed democracy, the handover of authorities must be ensured without political rematch and it is necessary to determine precisely which duties in the state and local public administration are being carried out with a view to the transfer of power. The economy. The condition of economic growth and development is freedom of competition. It is necessary to reduce the ability of the State to limit freedom of competition through discretionary decisions because persons making discretionary decisions are exposed to the risks of corruption, and therefore it is necessary to consistently implement the Support Act and institutionally strengthen the Competition Protection Agency, which functions as the regulator of individual government decisions. On the other hand, the national anti-corruption programme puts emphasis on the analysis of the state portfolio privatisation situation and proposes a plan and programme to continue privatisation and needs to analyse the public procurement system, identify how public procurement will be carried out in the future. Science, education and sport. The Anti-Corruption Programme provides that corruption in the field of science is best contained in a systematic approach to financing public needs in science, education and sport and further education. Different measures will improve the situation in pre-school education, primary, secondary and higher education and science and technology. First of all, measures to restore dignity, values and professional ethics of breeders, teachers and teachers, work on responsibilities in the business of schools and introduce transparency in spending dedicated resources, strengthen control of enrolment procedures in higher education institutions, and promote accountability and high ethical standards of behaviour of persons working in higher education institutions. The adoption of the Sport Act ensures a more transparent business of professional sports circles, establishing standards to prevent conflicts of interest of all participants in the system of sport competition. Also through the national strategy of sport, clearer criteria will be introduced for the allocation of public funds in the system of sports. In particular, inspection and control of the operation of clubs in the competition system should be developed. The second part of the anti-corruption programme is aimed at detecting and punishing corrupt people, therefore it is of greater importance to the Ministry of Justice and the State's attorney to analyse the work of USKOK thoroughly and to propose measures to improve its activities and to insist with greater care on detecting and pursuing corruption at all levels, in particular those affecting key economic decisions and legislation and abuse of positions and influences. It is also necessary to analyse the level of penalties prescribed for corruption offences and the regulation of the safeguard measure of confiscation of property acquired by criminal acts of corruption and organised crime, with extended confiscation of property benefit. Respected MPs, corruption is not only a Croatian but an international and global problem. No state is immune from corruption and is particularly prone to transition states. Croatia is therefore not to be surprised that the European Union sets the criteria for strengthening the capacity of the state and society in the fight against corruption in the process of accession negotiations with the European Union. In order to increase the credibility of the government and the competitiveness of the economy, it is important and useful to participate in international and regional institutions to combat corruption, to act actively in the cooperation of institutions and other organisations. So Croatia must continue to play an active role in European and regional institutions such as the Stability Pact, Grekos,... and continue to analyse the problem of corruption in the European integration process. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, cooperation with Interpol and Europol and with neighbouring and other countries should be continued in order to combat corruption in the region jointly. The justice ministry will analyse international legal aid, extradition procedures and co-operation in countering international organised crime and corruption. It is noteworthy that the anti-corruption programme respects the public's opinion on the scales of corruption in Croatia. To improve public perception of the fight against corruption is one of the tasks of this national programme as only a series of measures of education and awareness of corruption and its adverse consequences can achieve public belief that public policy is an activity for public good. Therefore, media campaigns for the anti-corruption programme and other measures need to be carried out continuously to educate the public on the problem of corruption and its ways of detecting and preventing it. Finally, the political will and determination of the authorities are crucial to curb corruption. The government of the Republic of Croatia has demonstrated its strong political will and determination to curb corruption in the Republic of Croatia by making and adopting a national programme. It is in the Croatian Parliament to adopt the National Programme for the Prevention of Corruption so that the holders of the measures set out in the national programme can reduce corruption to a level from which there will be no obstacle to the social, economic and political development of Croatia. I repeat, this programme contains concrete measures to be implemented by the bodies of the legislative, executive and judicial authorities within clearly defined deadlines. The specific importance of this programme is to provide for the establishment of a National Council to monitor the implementation of the National Corruption Prevention Programme to be composed of representatives, representatives of employers, union representatives, representatives of NGOs dealing with the problem of corruption, representatives of the academic community, experts and media representatives. The president of the National Council is scheduled to be of the order of the opposition. The task of this Council shall be to monitor and monitor the implementation of this programme permanently with proposals for measures and assessments of the results of the implementation of the national programme. Finally, I once again point out the National Corruption Prevention Programme is of national interest to the Republic of Croatia. So I ask the MPs to study this program and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60544	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60545	It is incorrect that the Minister claimed that Croatia was 74th in 99th place and that it therefore made little progress in 2005 by climbing 71st place. In 2005, Croatia was again at 74th where we found it in 2000 and it is true that in 2001 and 2002 we were in 51st and 53rd respectively because we shared those three places with three other countries with the same corruption perception index. So in 2001, at 51 today, we sank to 74th place. Secondly, it is incorrect that all judges are obliged to submit information on their property because it is precisely the interpretation of Ms. Minister that these are due only to newly appointed judges and it is interesting that this applies to others. And it's incorrect that all countries are corrupt. For example, Finland with an index of 1 to 5 is considered a country without corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60546	Second correction by the respected representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60547	Thank you very much. Ms. Minister says "By passing the Law on the financing of political parties, the government will best demonstrate the political will to combat corruption in politics." That's not true. The government will best show the political will to stop the ruling party from acting corruptly and in a statement on August 12th 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60548	Please stop. This is no longer a correction to an incorrect quote. This is a comment, a court of law and an evaluation of a political party.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60549	And Darko Ostova admits that with 500 thousand kuna he financed... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60550	You have a warning. Finish it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60551	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60552	Gentlemen, let us stick to the Rules of Procedure and what is the contents of the incorrect quote and what is the replica. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, President Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60553	Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament at the 52nd session held on 28 and 29 March 2006 discussed the proposal of the National Programme for the Prevention of Corruption for the period 2006-2008 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 16 March 2006. The Committee discussed the proposed programme on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 57. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the debate, the Committee noted that the National Corruption Prevention Programme should be seen as a continuous process specifically aimed at curbing the causes of corruption. The problem needs to be tackled more effectively by a more efficient way of handling state bodies and government institutions. The Committee estimates that the proposal for a programme is a continuation of current activities to address this problem. The Committee believes that the Croatian Parliament can contribute and must contribute to the implementation of the National Corruption Prevention Programme by adopting precise and clear laws and ensuring the functioning of the rule of law in all segments. It was also argued that the strategy was insufficiently concrete and should contain more concrete measures. After the debate, the Committee proposed 6 votes in favour of and 1 vote against the Croatian Parliament and proposed that the Parliament adopt a national programme to combat corruption for the period 2006-2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60554	Thank you. The Justice Committee. President-in-Office Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60555	Mr. President... Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At its 39th session held on 28 March 2006, the Committee for the Justice of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a national programme to combat corruption in 2006-2008 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 16 March 2006. The Committee considered the proposal of the National Anti-Corruption Programme as a parent working body in relation to the part-time work of the Justice Committee. In her opening statement, the Minister of Justice pointed out that the Government of the Republic of Croatia had made clear in its 2003-2007 programme on the fight against corruption and had adopted a package of anti-corruption laws on a regulatory basis so far. She stressed that by assessing the risk of corruption for social and economic life, this programme proposes individual objectives across all segments of social action, which is detailed. In particular, she referred to the area of judiciary, health care, local self-government and political parties which, in the public opinion, are a high-risk area of corruption. In the debate, the Committee members supported the proposal of the National Corruption Prevention Programme, which is aware of the social harmfulness of corruption, its consequences that threaten the rule of law, trust in institutions and the rule of law, equality and security of citizens. The Committee members stressed that the creation and promotion of political will and determination of government is crucial in the fight to combat corruption and that the programme should be adopted by consensus of all political parties. On the proposal of the National Programme, the following opinions and views were presented: First, it was stressed that the perception of the Croatian public and the media monitoring of corruption is creating a fame on corruption and that such an opinion is disproportionate to corrupt criminal acts. Also relevant international research shows different levels of corruption in the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, a preventive repressive approach to curbing corruption, clearly defined objectives and responsible implementation is supported. The proposed forms of public action and the importance of education in the fight against corruption have been supported. Thirdly, it is stressed that the proposed plan gives sufficient space to all social entities for action and that action can give a step by step results per segment for two to three years. Fourthly, the opinion is that so far the Republic of Croatia has taken a number of measures and has passed many amendments to the law in order to bring the legal system into line with the acquis of the European Union to help the rule of law and act to combat corruption. Fifthly, it has been estimated that positive developments have been made in the judiciary segment with good results. That this program must continue them, and especially in the segment of the organization... And the sixth is the Committee's view that the proposal for a National Corruption Prevention Programme is a comprehensive document. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] His order does not reflect priorities. On the contrary, it gives them equal importance and requires agreement in its contents for its adoption. After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice decided unanimously with 7 votes to propose to the Croatian Assembly the following conclusion: The National Anti-Corruption Programme is being adopted in 2006-2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60556	Thank you. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. President of the Committee, Honored Representative Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60557	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security held at the 63rd session on 28 March 2006 discussed the proposal for a National Programme to combat corruption in 2006-2008 submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 16 March 2006 to the President of the Croatian Parliament. The proposer's representative met the Committee's members with the objectives of this National Programme as well as with the preventive action of the executive, legislative and judicial authorities in the gradual and systematic repression of corruption. It further states that systematic reform and continued, systematic reforms and constant prevention measures need to be improved by the organisation, detection, processing and punishment of corruption. He also pointed out that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is determined to bring the problem of corruption to a level at which it will not be an obstacle to social, economic and political development and citizens will not view it as an obstacle to their freedoms, rights and interests. In the debate, the Committee supported the position of representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate analysed the situation in the areas of social life where, in public opinion, there is a high risk of corruption and, above all, concerns the area of the judiciary, health care, local self-government and political parties. The Committee took a unique position in the need to implement systematic reforms, and to prevent and then to combat corruption through repressive action all with the aim of progress and the development of society. Respecting the above and assessing that the creation of this National Programme is an indicator of the political will and determination of the state authority to combat corruption, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the 2006-2008 National Corruption Prevention Programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60558	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The HDZ representative club, the respected representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60559	Dear Mr. President, Madam Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The subject of corruption is often on this High House program, but rarely as a special topic. It's usually going through political accusations and a couple of charges. In our position, we point out that corruption is the greatest evil for mankind and is as old as mankind itself. She's breaking up the state, the state administration. Unfortunately, they grow up and the public because the public about corruption gets both accurate and incorrect data. Corruption itself is also about the development of democracy. Namely, in totalitarian regimes, and we tried one of these, there wasn't much debate about corruption, because the big brother didn't allow it. The development of democracy also starts with a debate on corruption, as well as abuse and debate and abuse of corruption because it is often politicised by this same corruption and used in accusations before the polls to win points in front of voters. In view of corruption and especially poor Croatia's rating, this dimension should also be taken into account, but also another dimension, which is that corruption is assessed on the basis of perception. Namely, there's no real evidence of corruption. I'll just give an example of health care. In 1997, Minister Vlahučić conducted anonymous surveys in 2002 or 2003 in a large number of patients who were fired from the hospital, an anonymous survey. When asked if you had to have had a health care service before you received it, if you were valued, something had to be paid positively answered less than 1% in our survey, and in a poll by Minister Vlahučić as much as he said less than 1 and a half percent. Polls on the street conducted by Transparens International show that healthcare corruption is between 20% and 40%. So that's the difference between reality. I think so, because it's been tested realistically based on survey and perception. However, perception is what we are dealing with and we must fight all forces against real corruption and also against perception that is often the basis and consequence of the abuse of data on corruption. In recent days, unfortunately, we have been our party on behalf of whose club I speak the target of such false attacks for political purposes. I guess it's because local elections are coming. I don't see any other reason. Old so - called affairs were being pulled out, and yet we have to say something about it now because it might come to the public after all. These affairs are repeated over and over again even though we have already denied them many times. However, a lie should be repeated until it becomes true. I'll repeat the biggest of those affairs. We're under attack for Bechtel, because we've given in without a public competition. Yes, but it's not said to be based on a contract that we inherited from the previous government in which such a possibility is founded by a contract. Therefore, the charge should be placed on the scale and this information placed on the other side. We're under attack for the Imostroy affair. Personally, as Deputy Prime Minister, I've been leading it and I can interpret it authentically and I'm afraid I'm going to have an opportunity soon and in court. The Imostroy affair doesn't really exist. It's just like any other company in bankruptcy. The government has determined to give its claim on the account of unpaid employees' salaries because it is a social approach and we have done so in dozens and dozens of cases. This time it got out because of alleged ties between one of the ministers who was not at all in the state at the time and didn't even know it was on the government's agenda. We're listening to the Stone of Ingrad. This is where we're to blame because we've done it in order to contain the gray economy of inspection, control of all the quarryes, and we've found this crime. And, of course, we've stepped down in part here and given 50% forgiveness of the punishment and its prolonging so that several thousand people wouldn't be left without bread. After all, the perpetrator himself was not guilty because years earlier there had been no inspection supervision of his activity. Therefore, the government that is taking inspection supervision cannot be blamed for such a case. I will personally because I have often been attacked by my left-handed colleagues and mentioned the “Simatsu” affair that I have favored in public competitions. All happiness works for the truth and the truth is available but it takes a long time to wait. Patience is the mother of today's behavior. In fact, the State Audit for the year 2004 when I ran that resort, which was recently in front of your benches, has shown that the Ministry of Health as regards public procurement and other financial operations is one of the three most exemplary in the country for the year. That there were no violations or actions contrary to the Public Procurement Act. Of course, it is now information that is accurate, which has been checked, but what it is worth when a lie has been spreading through the media for months and years, a lie to that extent unworthy political match, that it has certainly affected certain political results. And we could retaliate with hundreds of measures, hundreds of charges that we have records of, but we haven't, because we didn't think it was the goal of the anti-corruption program, that the goal of the anti-corruption program is to unite ourselves in the fight against that evil, not to abuse it. Corruption is a abuse of position, and politicising corruption is a misuse of corruption and it is only greater than corruption because it favors it and does not prevent it. Let us only remember what those who accuse us today have done. Building of a company owned by a member of the Government, and the supervisory authority is a company co-owned by the President of the Parliament, which is a member of the coalition party of that period. Consider, for example, an affair that I was criticized for being critical of predecessors. We found the Ministry of Health 70 million kuna signed information obligations without the content of the project. That was also confirmed by the State Audit, but of course it was too late because the media accused us of politicizing. Today and these days, you can see in the papers that some PIK Vrbovac managers, for example, received $80,000 a month on a loan from the Privatisation Fund, and directed by then by members of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister. Let's remember Excelsior. I was a member of the government when we singled out 30 million marks for the restoration of Excelsior. He's set up for 1 million once call the buyer. Let us remember the Sunny Hvar which is now coming to us because we spent the transparency of privatisation through a public-private partnership system that was to be sold for a minimum amount allegedly wrote the press because one party had to withdraw its money from the Ljubljana Bank in return. Let us remember the salary of Mr. Vrhnik of 120 thousand kuna at the time when we recovered his company from the state budget. I'm finally going to bring out now and the biggest corruption I've never said a word about because it would be declared an enemy of the left again. This is corruption that is just gaining importance today, and it refers to the shares of our most profitable and most profitable company Plive. On 11 December 2001, it was decided that Plivina's shares should be recovered from the health care debt for medicines. Why "Plivin" and not someone else? Because it was very easy to manipulate them at the time. The Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is the cornerstone of the government's decision to transfer 7 and a half shares to HZZO property. HZZO gave those shares "Plivi", and she later gave some major drugs, which also caused different personnel solutions later. In what way? First, the stock price is underrated. The price was set at 413 kuna. Only 50 days later on the stock market was 610 kuna, 50% higher. So the undervalued share is 50%, which is a direct loss of $40 million for the state that owns it. But that's just the smallest part. The state had 25.5% of INA ownership until the transaction. In other words, it had the right to a strategic decision. Which would mean today, when the Pliva jag started, that the state had 25% strategic ownership. It could affect the change of ownership today. This sales 7% of state shares came from 25% to 148% of ownership and today cannot participate in strategic decisions and that was the purpose of this transaction. Today it is quite clear because the prices of these shares will continue to rise due to market demand. That's not all, either. By selling those 7% shares, we deprived the country of strategic ownership. We're down below 25%. But the government's decision to sell state property to private companies, which is to transfer to the property of others, there are no copies of that decision in HZZO. There is not even a decision of the Governing Council, and it is a transaction of 750 million kuna. Maybe they're hidden somewhere, they'll show up hoping to investigate. And it's not just interesting in that transaction that we deprived the country of strategic governance during that period of Pliva which will be the most important for its future. But we deprived the state and the strategic decision to distribute billions and a half of dollars of traffic from Azithromycin that followed that day to this day. And not just that. But we also deprived her of the 25.5% turnover and we deprived her of the decision on that profit. So it's about an example of corruption that shouldn't be brought in, for a parliamentary speaker, but in front of a judicial body. But, I know, I'm gonna be accused of criticizing the left again, so I'm gonna end up here with this discussion about Pliva. Let the authorities continue it. What is the problem of corruption in Croatia is the cover-up of such or less terrible, less frightening corruption affairs. Let's remember recently, I'm going to say a few examples about healthcare. One doctor is convicted of corruption. But how? The criminal charges were dropped, the other day you were able to read in the papers, but the civil suit got a patient and the doctor has to pay him back 3,000 marks, but it's not criminally responsible. Well, I mean, it's a joke that absolutely encourages corruption. Or these days when a suspect was founded with Shalate that he took money from a patient, and I personally suspended the same colleague two years earlier on the same and similar charges, so I was accused of replacing him because the SDP brought him to the scene. Politics and cover-up are not a good way to solve corruption. That's why I'd turn to the program that's ahead of us. The government's anti-corruption programme is a quality and is the basis for starting all not only the debate but also the action on this plan. Prior to the adoption of this programme, the government took and read a series of concrete measures. They're partly listed in the program itself, and they're not. I'll just list some. The anti-corruption decision is the introduction of a project to inform a number of government services. Also initiating criminal proceedings against 615 police officers with suspected corruption. Also numerous moves we made in health care, justice in real estate records, etc. I think we should mention another problem. It's not always political parties who are guilty of corruption. There is one party that is eternal in corruption, which does not belong to any political option, it infiltrates all political options. It is the party of Croatia's long-fingered party. I call them HSD. The Croatian long-fingered party does not lose any elections. She's not in the first plans of media criticism, but she's always there everywhere. And my proposal is at the end of this contribution that we all unite together not in the crackdown of corruption affairs but to unite together, all together in battle...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60560	Please, peace. Don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60561	Could you give me 10 seconds, please? It's just that everyone's together, I see a lamp, I see a light, it's yellow.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60562	My colleague Linic, please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60563	You see everything red. Well, it's yellow to me. So, I would suggest that we all unite together without such incursions and charges, all together, because this is what HDZ and SDP voters and all parliamentary and non-parliamentary parties require to fight the Croatian party of long-fingers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60564	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60565	Dear fellow Hebrang said it was a problem of corruption in Pliva. Unfortunately, it's not just about that, but it's about the catastrophic management and corporate strategy that's completely missed, which is a billion and a half dollars that she made on the basis of the Sumameda practically sold into blanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60566	Dear Representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60567	A fellow Hebrang, while speaking, was clearly a mistake. So it's not about public-private partnership, it's about privatising through recapitalisation. Although it is shown in the Croatian public as a public-private partnership. And as far as transparency is concerned, it is best to say that there is no public declaration of the shareholder agreement for a public-private partnership, etc. in Sunny Hvar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60568	On behalf of the HSLS Club, Honored Vice-President Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60569	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I will start with the data I have found by preparing this debate, which is that 90% of Croats consider corruption a common way of conduct and that they are at the worst of their reputation a judiciary, health care, political parties and local authorities, and we know that the EU rightly considers an effective judiciary a guarantee of human rights. In fact, I'm really on behalf of the club not only hoping but also calling, it's good that we started the debate without a bid on authorship. It would be better, of course, to brag about the results and not the strategies, and it would be good if we could still escape the need to compete in an indictment that the government was more corrupt and without proof with half-assuming, with flat-rate estimates, of course we all have immunity, so we can afford it, but then we will really send voters a message that we are all the same and no wonder then that we really have a loss of trust in the institution, a small number, or a large abstinence of voters, and then it is logical, almost logical, if we don't believe in institutions and statements that come from a criminal mile, that they will take things into our hands if the institutions don't work. Obviously that corruption has provided its tentacles and damage everywhere, I will really not talk about moral categories here because I think we can all agree there, I will start with what is completely material, from what is full of budgets and from what we all live from, which is why the economy is very often here we open discussions with the question of how to attract foreign investors, how to keep our investors, and then we talk about fast HR, we talk about administrative barriers, local self-government takes down land prices to zero kuna, disowning actually foreign investors when in Croatia are interested in the functioning of the rule of law. They are interested in how to avoid administrative barriers and long paths in front of counters, because many of them are unknown ways in which this is very often or too often solved in Croatia, which are connections and envelopes. We must, of course, say something about the inspections themselves. I'm afraid there's too little to say about that part, and they seem to me the most interesting when it comes to corruption. Namely, there are inspectors who also have their own companies or family, consulting companies, and imagine the wonders of those who exactly recommend them when there is a problem to be solved because there is such a shortcut, the job is done very quickly. Of course, it's not just a moral question, but I'm curious about what the State's Attorney's office does when it speaks for such information. This time I'm really thinking of something quite concrete, so I'm going to beg you with the strategy or the measures that will come out of this strategy, that you're certainly a little concerned with the inspections that you believe are very imaginative, so when citizens call on HSLS' phone number, they say that some inspectors really need inspection for their work. It's interesting if you talk a little bit to people who sell it on the green market, you're also interested in the same time that the inspection comes in, check out who came there without permission, and how, that those who do it neatly get away a few minutes before the inspection comes in secret and unannounced. It's all corruption, and it needs to be taken care of. Of course, we should also talk about fighting work on black. Some of our cities have signed such contracts against unpaid overtime where workers work as they do in the slave system. I'll remind you again that when the inspectors find out something, then 80% of their work goes out of date, so I remind you of the initial part of the debate where I was talking about the functioning of the judiciary. 80% are out of date, and 20% of what gets to judges in realisation, have reduced sentences, and the message is completely clear. Cheat the state, cheat the worker, it pays more because it doesn't work. We have therefore drawn up in HSLS a bill, I ask you to consider it also as part of this programme, which is a mandate and drastic penalty until the closure and loss of licenses of those who do not pay for such work. And because of the citizens' trust that we need if we want to have citizens in this strategy as partners, we really need to get away from ourselves or from high policy. Of course, it's a good proposal for a direct election of mayors, mayors and mayors because trade will be reduced to a small measure. I didn't say it would be lifted on purpose, but I'm sure she'll take it down a notch. Of course, the business of state officials with the state should also be prohibited. I'll remind you, I haven't said anything new yet, so we haven't forgotten the jobs both Cacic and Tomcic have done. What happened then will certainly leave a long-term trail of politics, citizens and people's trust in institutions, but also according to local self-government should indeed take some far more concrete measures not only for inspections but also for local officials who are often more accessible and useful to such dirty jobs than MPs, because why would someone bribe a representative. To raise your hand for a certain law. It definitely doesn't pay off, and we're very often the target of such accusations. The political parties here are indeed looking for the Law on the financing of political parties as part of the implementation of such a strategy, we are preparing it, but I warn you that a statement by President Mesic, who is speaking, should therefore be examined, that it is necessary to check how certain political parties are being financed already now. Of course, anonymous donations should also be banned because the names are usually behind these so-called so-called donations. anonymously quite familiar, ban donations of local self-government units, as well as public and state-owned enterprises. Of course, professional and political supervision, public availability and strict sanctions are necessary to remove them from the register. It seems to me that we've worked harder towards drivers than on corruption. About health corruption may indeed start at the beginning only from the urgent publication of the list of waitings for reviews. The area of justice seems to be the hardest and hardest job since according to estimates, but also by perception, this area that is most prone to corruption, where it has the most, and as you can see, it appears from these rows and the first whistles. We support the reporting of the property of judges and state lawyers, of course with the verification of how they acquired it, but on the affairs that have been happening lately, first I want to believe that they have nothing to do with the election of judges. However, we ask the minister to give an answer to which the judges are driving the donated cars, and it will be interesting to see who donated those cars and how the disputes that these donors had over those courts ended. Maybe there's a connection there. Are they finished at all or have they accidentally gone out of date? It's unacceptable for judges who do their job fairly to be treated like they're all the same as what happens to us politicians. It will be interesting to see, of course, who was editing and setting up the courts and how these processes went through. It might be good to establish an investigative commission to really examine this part and be representatives of civil society, prominent individuals and legal experts. And, Minister, we really ask you to prepare serious answers to these questions so that not all judges are the same. I must commend the Ministry of the Interior, which has indeed come from itself in the criminal charge. So I came up with the information that they've had 615 employees in the last three years under strict procedures. Doubting that they were engaged in dishonesty. That's a huge number. You should see if there's any in the justice system. Here, we call on behalf of HSLS to try to bring this strategy by consensus. If we were to offer good solutions, and also, Minister, it would be a good idea not to send too many messages about how you will work for those who know how to read and treat these messages well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60570	Thank you. For the SDSS Club, the esteemed representative of Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60571	Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This is an important topic, and it seems to me that we can say that it is a common burden, and I am convinced that this debate should also act that way. I think one more thing at the beginning, that we should come from this introduction or from the question, rather I say so, whether with the content that is in this strategy we can achieve the lofty goal that the minister here today has said and which is of course important to us. I'm going to say a few sentences on behalf of the club, and in the end, I'm going to figure out how I evaluate this material, I repeat from this point of view how much the target provides. We in the material have at the beginning of text several attributes. Justice, honesty, equality, equality and security of citizens, trust in public institutions. This, of course, was given in that form in principle, but it seems to me that the material also lacked an attitude that is very important, and that all that I am, all these attributes to depend on whether we have a rule of law. And over that, the whole thing is actually being realized. Furthermore, the current situation is said to be different, but it is estimated in a way that lowers the level of morality and raises the level of dissatisfaction of citizens. It is also something that must be concerned or that we must keep in mind both in the conversation and in the measures we are planning to implement. That is why the danger of corruption, but also the perspective and quality of society and the satisfaction and perspective of citizens, is the best criterion for assessing the situation in the area. And yet I return to this criterion which can best be assessed, if they are respected and if the laws are implemented consistently, without the rest and equally to all. I've got one grudge in my grade in this material that I'd like to express in the following way. It seems to me that there was no courage here to say that we in society have not been assured of law enforcement consistently and without the rest. I think that's a brave thing to say, simply because through such a fact and through such an evaluation we best come to the conclusion that we're going to fix it. As far as public perceptions are concerned, it is in the material, the following qualifications are given. A marked dissatisfaction, considered corruption widespread, is said to be not an incident but a part of the system and to require decisive measures. And I would add here something that is not in the material, but it seems to me that there would be a reason to say that citizens from this point of view are dissatisfied with the state of society. Like I said before, and this should be said bravely. It's simply because it'll help us move on. Now, I'm going to kind of simply say three things that seem important to me in creating such an atmosphere or in building a grade like this that we now have to solve or that scares us or that we have to deal with. First of all, privatisation has produced a great injustice. It's ruined property and people without sanctions, and because it's, you'd dare say, it's kind of a law for itself in the form of lawlessness. It's the first source. The second thing, it's very private, it means individual interest, often very unrealistic. An individual interest in the state, an individual interest we ask of the state to provide for me. And of course, it's coming out of this now because of the merits, because of the other characteristics in which my attitude, my merit, is more important than the law. More important than that law enforcement consistent. Or should I say another, a large number of people, unfortunately to me, a large number of people perceive the state as a way, in a way to say the state is mine, in an explanation it must do it for me. And the state has a higher purpose. And the third thing that seems important to me has contributed to the problem that we're talking about today. It is that the public messages of the media, the important people of power, other people who send public messages were not so much of a quality, such a quality, so focused that we have a stamping of these phenomena as something that is a negative evil to a large extent. Of course, I'm adding one more thing, all of what I've stated is subject to an atmosphere that means that under political calculations, there's either a big or an individual interest, and then, of course, it's developing in a negative direction. I'm going to make a comparison here that makes sense to me, no matter what. We in the last system had corruption by the state or buying citizens' trust through the fact that we were silent when someone stole the key and the pliers from the workplace or that someone stayed at work if it didn't work out well because such support was important. On the other hand, we had what was called connection and protection, it was also a kind of buy-back support, but for that you had to be in the structure of either a party or someone else. I have to say that it seems to me that we're probably in a habit, but not just in the habit of passing on some of these relationships, and in the present time unfortunately with the multiplied consequences because now that we're talking about taking state wealth, then it's about larger amounts, it's about some other relations, it's about much larger numbers. And also the state and political structures are probably all trying to buy support from citizens again with a certain advocacy. I'm going to tell you one thing that seems to me that the state's consent to corruption is, you know, you have a lot of people who got a house, an apartment, some other property, some other investment that goes along with it just on the basis of a document I'm giving a statement to a public notary that I have nothing. You shouldn't say it's unfair, but when we have it as a practice, then I guess it's in these stories that we're talking about corruption of the worst possible species. Here in the material, Madam Minister, you mentioned the particular problem of the judiciary and the problem of the administration. I'll say a few sentences on that. You know when it comes to justice, then the main story is focused on that digitalization of land books and technical equipment. I'm afraid two, three more important things than that are unfair and harmful. First, what about the civil and professional courage of a judge to make a decision? You have a situation where people don't have the courage to make a decision that the actual state deserves, you have the habit of a judge saying I'm going to make a decision in, quotes me to say in "mild form," so in the appeal procedure, it's going to fix some of the above court. You have the next thing. The Constitutional Court assigns foams to the state to pay the party ten thousand kuna, it doesn't matter, that one kuna is because the judicial system hasn't solved a case in 3 years and 6 months. It's the lower limit, and it's actually a trial of 4, 5 and more years. And one more thing, which is with the responsibility of the President of the Courts who would have to monitor the state of the case, who, from time to time, would have to control it, make it, call the colleges, and then figure out together what is missing and what we can solve tomorrow. So, you have a situation that, I know, the subject that is completely clean and without a doubt can be made a decision waiting and it is in a procedure that is prescribed as urgent, it takes a year and seven months and if the President of the Court doesn't know such a structure then that's his responsibility. Therefore, when we talk about the judiciary, and in this context and even when we talk about the judiciary of this thing, it seems more important to me and they should be talked about at least a little earlier than the number of computers, although I admit that this is also important. When it comes to management, then you have first, it wouldn't be polite for me to qualify here and give an assessment of the individual quality of officials in the administration, but it's a very widespread habit for people to think of someone's right to decide, you know, by their own means. The Law on Administrative Procedure requires that when you decide on something you must make a decision, you must also give the party the right to manifest it and possibly regret it, and that is the rule of procedure. There are a lot of cases, we know in pensions, for example. Such a decision of such compliance was not and then the party when it was 3, 4, 5 years ago when she told me you owed me two pensions instead of notifying her by official duty. It's been three years, you're out of date, you're out of rights. And now the feeling of an ordinary man. You know, the feeling of an ordinary man especially in areas of special state concern that bear quite a degree of depravity is that we are powerless before this bureaucracy and carry people inside of us in terms of this bear a sense of hopelessness. And now you know the absence of those assessments that I mentioned, this feeling of people having no country behind them that will protect them on the elementary criteria of justice. It multiplicates a social problem that tomorrow must be bigger than today, the day after tomorrow. That's why I'll conclude what I announced at the beginning. Madam Minister, it seems to me, or mine is determined at this point, that this sublime objective of curbing corruption cannot be achieved by the content offered in this strategy. And if that's what this is about, I can't tell you what it is, even though I have some ideas, but it seems to me that this strategy should be developed in the direction of more courageous assessments and better measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60572	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60573	I'm correcting an esteemed colleague who said that the Constitutional Court has reached a verdict on the compensation for a three-year-old procedure. Unfortunately, the Constitutional Court has not yet reached such a verdict because it has reached a verdict for proceedings that have been conducted for more than seven, eight years and only a reasonable period of time has been imposed by the new Law on Courts for a trial of up to three years to introduce compensation for damages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60574	Thank you. The HNS Club is a respected representative of Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60575	Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! On 21 March 2002, the Croatian Parliament adopted a National Anti-Corruption Programme with the Anti-Corruption Action Plan and a fundamental approach that should be based on this programme that no one disputes to try to see what has happened, what should be changed, what should be complemented and try to see how to move forward. This proposal of the 2006-2008 National Anti-corruption Programme, unfortunately does not go that way, but it is set as if nothing had happened before and in some evaluations of the previous programme, it is very clear that the government did not actually consider that there was a national anti-corruption programme because it did not implement it, because it did not consider itself responsible for its implementation. It says in one text, in one part of this text, "The National Programme or Action Plan has not been implemented and the Assembly Commission has not been established." So whose responsibility is that the national programme and action plan have not been implemented. The government that puts it as such a clear finding considers it not its responsibility. This was to be carried out by someone else, and this government, as an official document, has had for more than two years, almost two and a half years, this national programme and its implementation should be the responsibility of the existing Government of the Republic of Croatia. So it's been moving from the beginning as if the national programme wasn't what, of course, it's in conflict with the next formulation that the suppression of corruption is not considered a campaign but a permanent task. But if this existing national programme has not been implemented then this has the form of a campaign because someone else is being accused, someone else is considered guilty of why the official document of this House has not been implemented. In many elements this document has not been implemented. The parliamentary commission was not founded but was therefore full of four years, there were significant delays in setting up the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, a very important institution, then the Public Procurement Office and these bodies are not working properly today. This was our last chance to see, some time ago there was a report by the State Commission to control the procurement procedures. Laws on the prevention of conflicts of interest and on the right to access information were passed with delay and in the term of office of the former government and that is part of its responsibility and then the implementation of these laws was even slower than the procedure for the adoption of those laws. So all that the state, government, parliament's task in the fight against corruption was more or less written in the existing National Anti-Corruption Programme, only that it was clearly treated by the government as if it were not its programme. Then the weirder fact is that after two and a half years, it comes out with its own anti-corruption programme and then it's said it's not a campaign. Basic settings for the fight against corruption are respect for regulations, respect for laws, rule of law and it is also reflected in respect of regulations and documents adopted by the Croatian Parliament. Without respect for the laws and regulations, there can be no effective fight against corruption and the non-implementation of the existing national programme is in fact disrespecting the highest documents brought by the highest body of this country, which is the Croatian Parliament. And now it's coming out with a new program like there was nothing before. And of course the second dimension of the fight against corruption is that the truth is always presented to the general public. In this sense, I will show here how the Government of the Republic of Croatia is actually trying to misrepresent the development of the perception of corruption in the Republic of Croatia from the year 99 and 2000 to today. So in the 99th year, the index or place of the Republic of Croatia on the Transparency International Perception Index was 74 and today there are 70 which would mean that we are falling on that scale and then corruption is smaller. But it's not like that. That's not true. In 2000, the Republic of Croatia fell to 51st from 74th place in 99th. It advances 23 places in Transparency International's corruption index and then begins stagnation and decline. From 51st place we're in 70th place today and the index has been falling all the time. The smaller that index is, the more corrupt it is in the country's dream. So in 2001 it was 3.9, 2003 it was 3.7, 2004. 3.5, and 2005. 3.4. So in those five years on that index we fell by about 0.5 which is actually a huge decline, and by the rules set by Transparens International itself, which is not just perception. It's too long a study and it's relatively objectively showing what the perception is, not only the perception of corruption, but also the state of corruption in a country. It is not accidentally on top of that scale as a country that has almost no corruption in Finland. We know where Croatia belongs in the order of transition countries with some ahead, with some behind them and of course we know who comes at the end of that list. Therefore, this measurement technique is a credible technique because it has been going on for decades and should not be treated as something that is perception. Perception itself is a real fact. In particular, it is a problem if it is not, of course, in line with what is happening in reality. Therefore, this is really the state of corruption in the Republic of Croatia and this needs to be very clearly looked into. As far as this document is concerned, as most of these documents are concerned, it is difficult to make a phrase and it is not a problem that has phrases in it. So it's hard to make a document like this so there's no phrase in it. What's the problem is you don't see how this document should be better than an existing document. Some elements of this document are not only equal but are worse than the document that was adopted four years ago. Namely, deadlines and assignments, and that's important. This is important for the fight against corruption, for the implementation of the programme. It is not so important that this introductory part that must, of course, necessarily be phrased, but the deadlines that we set and the tasks we set. Tasks are set more precisely in the existing National Programme than in this programme. If you do not have a clear task set, if the deadlines are not clearly set, we can hardly expect to carry out those programmes or plans that we accept. In this regard, it should be noted that this document differs significantly from real policy from what the Government of the Republic of Croatia really is, and here it is said that the independence and responsibility of local self-government units should be strengthened, and nothing, but nothing in this regard is done. I agree with the fundamental view that decentralisation is one of the ways we can fight corruption, because we are approaching the authorities, and then control by the authorities by the citizens, but nothing about decentralisation has happened in the past two and a half years. What makes sense, then, to put it as one of the important elements of the programme, nor does it suggest that the Republic of Croatia will step in some stronger steps in the process of strengthening local self-government. It's one of the levers to strengthen society's strength to fight corruption, but in this sense we haven't done much in recent years and it's really campaigning now to put it here in this programme if in that sense we haven't done anything at all. And even stranger is the object of implementation, decentralisation in school. Well, we've passed a few laws over the past few years that have strengthened the centralization of the health system, not health care, but schooling, I'm talking about schooling. We have passed the Law on Primary and Secondary Schools and also some changes that I am actually the level of centralization, the distance of governance from citizens, from people who are interested in raising instead of bringing it down to lower levels. The same here seems to me to be part of a political rhetoric that needs to be reduced to post-election political rematchism or to fight it. The issue is to what extent is political rematchism after the corruption elections. That doesn't stand clearly here. It is more a matter of political culture and the continuity of government than it has to do with fighting corruption. But this is set as the goal of this programme, and we know that after the change of government, not only of these authorities, but of every government in this country, there are major changes. So there's no saying that some assistant minister could stay in his position as professional except by accident, and of course shifts go much lower. When it comes to this government and the shifts it has taken, I'll just mention shifts in health care where there couldn't have been a single hospital director, and that was under the pretext of the alleged debts of those hospitals, and then when the new directors today's directors continued to create debts they weren't replaced again, which means that the argument and the argument was not true, but that the shift had a political character, so that's even worse. If the government has the right to replace including hospital directors, at least let them say it's her right, not that there are some excuses that later prove to have nothing to do with the real behaviour of the government. If that's an argument. Today should be replaced again more or less by all hospital directors. But it was not an argument, but it was, of course, an excuse for these directors or directors to be replaced because they were members of another political option which was much cleaner to replace them and say it was because of it, rather than to say it was because of the debts they allegedly made. So in that part too, this Anti-Corruption Plan actually goes one way, and really, it's often different, not to say the opposite. And in connection with the conflict of interest, this program remains on the surface. It also has elements of political and promotional logic. In fact, the conflict of interest with us in the Republic of Croatia remains at the highest levels, the highest officials, and those who are really in danger of jeopardizing the state in many aspects are not listed in our conflict of interest laws. In our conflict of interest is the head of a government office which has 500 000 kn budgets per year, and is not the one who is the head of a public firm in full state ownership, which has hundreds of millions of kuna. The head of an Office of the City of Zagreb, which controls half a billion kuna per year, is not in conflict with our law of interest, and the head of a government office, for example, for gender equality, which has 500 000 kuna, with 1000 kuna less money, it is in conflict of interest. So also surface, surface approach to this problem. Finally, this programme would be better off relying on previous programmes regardless of who it is, which government has adopted these programmes to point very clearly to what has been realised, which is not realised and to supplement this programme, such as supplementing it here with the availability of data. In health care and other segments. It is certainly a good thing in this programme and, of course, I welcome on behalf of the HNS Club the establishment of a committee to monitor the fight against corruption which is not called the Commission again, which is of course not crucial, but is called the National Council. But basically this program won't bring a shift if behavior is different than the program itself says. And this program could get a positive rating if it were to be handled under this program, if it didn't have just a promotional character, and then life goes in some other direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60576	Thank you. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. First respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60577	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Rados, said in several allegations that the government's policy of the Republic of Croatia is campaigning to combat corruption. I think it's an incorrect quote because if we analyze and look at both our work in these two years and the government's work on the laws that were proposed, I just think that's not the case. Let's just look at the segment of the judiciary as unhappy as we are with the functioning of the judiciary we see actually that the lags are shrinking. The project "Hurry HR", informing the grantovnica, the Law on Support, the Law on Public Procurement, are all the laws that we have passed in these two years, and these are all laws that have anti-corruption objectives within them. And so I think the assumption that the government's policy is a campaign simply isn't right.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60578	Second correction by Honorary Representative Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60579	Thank you very much. A colleague, Radoš, listed one inaccuracy when he said he was in health care, that all directors were removed for political reasons. That's not true. Of the 14 directors of clinical institutions, only 6, and the reasons are also known. All he respected was the Health Protection Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60580	Next correction by the respected representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60581	Mr. President, I would also like to correct Mr. Radosh. He accused the former authorities that, in fact, the current government had replaced all the hospital directors. It is simply not true and I don't know why it falsely deceives us here in the assembly and the Croatian public. Only 4 hospital directors have been removed, and all directors and over 150 board presidents have been removed in one day for the governments of Mr. Rados.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60582	The next correction by the esteemed representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60583	Thank you very much. I would like to correct the quote of my colleagues, Rados, who said that the directors had been removed because they were members of the other option. That's not true, Mr. Radosh. The reasons why they've been replaced are listed, and you're in the so-called The Bartholomew Night was replaced in one day by over 200 hospital directors and council directors precisely because they were other options.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60584	Dear representative Nevenka Majdenic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60585	Dear Mr. President-in-Office Jozo Rados said that this document is no better than the March 2002 National Anti-Corruption Programme? What makes it better? Well, it's better by that because the 2002 National Programme, in fact, the emphasis in that programme was on declaring political will or recognition of facts and in this programme the accent was placed on law enforcement, and that is, of a first-rate importance. Besides, I support it with one fact that it's national...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60586	Thank you very much. This is no longer a correction to an incorrect quote. Honorable representative Jozo Radosh. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60587	Mr. President, all the colleagues who corrected me were either correcting my views, so my opinions do not state what I said or actually replicated what I was saying, so it would be more correct if they gave the replica then I could answer, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. This way it doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60588	It's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure. You made certain claims. The MPs made counter statements. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60589	Thank you very much. It's an incorrect allegation that we've replaced all the principals. We replaced exactly 4 directors plus 2. That's why this number six. One of them resigned on his own because of a misdemeanor in the supply that was revealed to him at the time, and one was returned to the court's verdict. That's why they're six. Only four have been replaced. Another assumption is incorrect that they have been removed for political reasons. In the report of the state audit, we saw that the 4 removed directors had a total of 500 million kuna supplies against the Public Procurement Act. And that was the reason for the replacement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60590	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60591	And that's what the audit showed you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60592	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60593	So, first of all, I didn't say that all the directors were removed, but most of them did. So it wasn't my quote, so he couldn't even make it right. [[The intruders don't understand.]] But I've put an accent on my shift. The reasons for the shift were debts, and the new directors continued to produce debts and were not removed. I've talked more about it than whether 4 or 6 or 12 has been replaced.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60594	My colleague, Radosh, this is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. You are again making one contrasting claim, the claims they are contesting, the representative, and you are contesting his claims. This falls under the corrections of incorrect allegations, not the violation of the Rules of Procedure. At 11 o'clock and 5 minutes, it's time for an individual debate. We still have five clubs and 36 MPs and advocates registered. Dear representative Ljubica Lalic on behalf of the HSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60595	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. So here is after on 28 February 2006, MP Vesna Škare-Ozbolt in the parliamentary procedure referred the National Corruption Prevention Programme proposal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 16.3.2006, which is how we are today discussing the government's proposal even though it is later referred to in the procedure. No matter what the proposal is not included in the agenda, it is evident that we have received the government's proposal under pressure, but it is irrelevant if there is a true political will to declare not only war in Croatia but also a successful fight against what is recognised as something that threatens the rule of law, trust in public institutions and the rule of law, honesty, justice, equality and equality and the security of citizens. Corruption really slows down the development of the entrepreneurial climate and political culture, morals, culture and tradition will grow. It is a fundamental obstacle to the economic development of a country without which there is no better life for a citizen. In the opening section, the Government recalls that it is in its 2003/2007 programme. for years, it announced its determination to join the fight against corruption as a fatal issue of Croatia's arrangements as a free European state. But that determination has not been recognized in the last two years and will not be more recognizable even after the adoption of this program if it is kept in writing. It is a practice that will restore citizens' trust by eradicating corruption, not only in politics, but in all forms of government, health, education, etc. It is true that Croatia signed in the first 10th of December 2003 and ratified the United Nations Convention on the Prevention of Corruption on 4 February 2005. Yeah, but just signing without the necessary effective activities doesn't mean anything. It speaks of the opposition on the international corruption scale. In the context of the programme, these data were left out for the time period from 2000 to 2003 and is trying to compete in 1999 when Croatia took 74th place and in 2005 when Croatia took 70th place according to unofficial surveys. He's trying to convince us that the government's actions allegedly taken gave positive results. It is recalled that only a year from 2003 and 2004, the corruption of the state on the international scale has increased neither more than 20 places. In its positive opinion, the European Commission on the European Union's spring bid in 2004 specifically highlighted the problem of corruption in the Republic of Croatia. There's two years after that, we get a rescue proposal for the program. He himself will not bring us the cure of this vicious disease that has affected every segment of society. It is alarming that public perception of the spread of corruption is disproportionate to the detection and processing of corruption crimes. This perception of the public was also in the time period until 2000, but until then the authorities claimed that this perception was unfounded and thus closed their eyes to an epidemic that affected the entire social organism. Following the opinion of the European Commission, the disease should have been recognised and unfortunately maintained only at recognition. It's a waste of all laws when they're not implemented. Neither does the government itself, and how it will expect others to implement them. Although the law requires public advertising and mandatory public tendering, the government directs the contract to "Bechtel" the construction of highway shares. The guilt is trying to transfer to the previous government, but the decision to give up on that job shows a lack of basis for the charges. The public's conclusion in the act is corruption. It's not just going to be awarded without the construction of highway shares. The defence ministry is agreeing to purchase a 5m-euro truck with a direct contract. The High Commander of the Armed Forces is requesting an investigation, and the defence minister calls his commander-in-chief a tragic game and acknowledges a direct contract, I quote, "Unless the budget money intended to buy the truck would remain unconsumed.", finished quote. So the minister who is obliged to comply with the law says he can pass the law. Why? In the absence of a logical answer, corruption is the only possible reason. The public hasn't forgotten the Stone Ingrad case yet. The state inspector says, "The Stone Ingrad owes 65 million kuna.""and the prime minister of the government says, "let them pay the state 34 million by continuing their activities.". Even two ministers point to the illegality of business, but all of this doesn't matter for the prime minister. It suits Vlad Zec, a coalition partner all under cover of job conservation. The only winner in the affair is Vlado Rabbit, and those in whose supposed name he's fighting are the only losers. Why all this? The only answer, of course, is corruption. Let's just remember the "Liburnia Hotel" affair, which funds are given to say funds for public reporting of debt for financial support to the ruling party in pre-election promotion. Under public pressure, the decision is lifted, the guilt failedly tries to transfer to the former government, and the public says corruption is at work. However, not every announcement of the tender is not a guarantee of the exclusion of corruption. Competitions are adapted to the political selector so that only he can be seemingly the most favourable. Let's just remember the Shimatsu affair. Should I add to that long list an affair about Imostroy and so on, and so on? So the government itself has given rise to the creation of mistrust and suspicion of corruption not only in politics and politicians, but also all branches of government in the Republic of Croatia. The events and constitutions of the authorities after the 2005 local elections are particularly embarrassing in front of the domestic and foreign public. Tolerating non-compliance with the citizens' will expressed in the elections has led to the full mistrust of citizens both in local self-government and state government. Political uniforms have changed, and offers have been tied to changes in hundreds of thousands of euros. Jobs and jobs were offered. The indignation and mistrust of citizens was growing, and the government helplessly shrugs its shoulders hiding behind the inalienance of councilman's mandate. In this way, citizens' trust is not built either in government or in the rule of law and morals. The promoter assures us that this proposal differs from the 2002 programme and says: "As the document mentioned earlier stressed the declaration of political will, recognition of the fact that corruption is a serious social problem, this programme particularly highlights the authorities' determination to curb corruption by training institutions. Earlier, the emphasis was on law-making, and in this programme, law enforcement is of first-class importance.", finished quote. Well, of course, once the laws are passed, the implementation must be ensured. However, concrete measures aimed at achieving the right objectives do not show this determination. How, for example, the objective set under one in the judiciary will be achieved in the judiciary, and it says: The corrupt will be singled out and sanctioned. How this will be achieved in health and education, because what we have read is insufficient and insufficient. We have no answer to that, so let us conclude that this program is merely a sacred guide that does not drive Satan, which in this case is called corruption. It is obvious that this document is the result of pressure, but not the sincere political will to remove a fundamental obstacle to the economic and social development of the Republic of Croatia, which is corruption. We were on the test of the seriousness of our intentions when we discussed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Privatisation Act, when we discussed the proposal for conclusions proposed after the revision of the conversion, privatisation, after the State's Attorney's report when the state's attorney clearly states that what happened in the privatisation can be sanctioned, has elements for the annulment of these contracts and these agreements, but also has elements for the confiscation of illegally acquired assets. Unfortunately, there was no political will to make such conclusions, we are not aware that there is a political will that those mild conclusions that have been made to be carried out, and making such conclusions to take away what has been wrongly acquired would be the best possible message for the Croatian public to think seriously. Unfortunately, this programme, neither the programme nor the actions or activities undertaken, provide such a guarantee, and indeed this is just a declarative attitude and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60596	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60597	Thank you very much. The honourable lady's representative again misrepresented the so-called false, false, and deliberately falsely. the Shimac affair in the context of corruption. I'm re-negotiating that statement of hers and the incorrect allegation and that with the State Audit data. For that period, the Ministry of Health, which I led, is the most appropriate ministry without any violation of the Public Procurement Act. I'll repeat how many times and Mrs. Lalic's charges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60598	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Marijan Bekavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60599	Thank you, Mr. President. A respected colleague claimed that the affair "Imostroy" was an example of corruption. In the Imostroy affair, there was no corruption, but only the government gave up its claims for the benefit of the workers, so it is not possible to see what corruption could be there.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60600	Third correction, honourable representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60601	It is an incorrect allegation of a distinguished colleague who has said that they have not reached conclusions on the report on the application of the Law on Amendments to Conversion and privatisation. I think it needs to be clearly corrected in a way that the conclusions are clear and accurate in the Croatian Parliament at 12 months last year, which include all those elements in which it is dealt with with with the offences committed by including the return of the property illegally acquired and the prosecution. So clear and precise exactly in this House are the conclusions made.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60602	SDP advocates' club, respected representative Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60603	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister. A relevant survey published in May 2005 clearly shows that Croatian citizens believe corruption has been on the rise in the last two years. The Transparens International Index also shows that Croatia was 74th in 1999 with widespread corruption, in 2002 it improved its position and moved to 51st place, and in 2005 it fell to 70th place of the same scale. Unfortunately, ma'am, you brought us back to where we were in 1999. It is clear from the survey that the type of corruption in which participants from the high structures of government is increasing, while the type where participants are lower positioned officials is stagnating. The survey also analyses the cause of the increase in corruption in which the largest increase has three factors. First, the legacy of HDZ authorities, second indifference, fear of regret and lack of cooperation between citizens and third, insufficient political will and incompetence of authorities. The results of this survey have been defeated for the current government, and especially for the prime minister whose rating according to the corruption criteria has fallen significantly and has been reduced to the level of ministry officials. It can be said that so far we have had corrupt bureaucracy, and now we have a prime minister at the same level. Due to this experience, the SDP cannot agree with the introduction part of the programme that the very fact that this programme is adopted by the Government, the Parliament and all political parties are determined to combat corruption. We cannot agree with the claims that some small technical solutions such as the "Hurry HR service" or future planned projects such as the "I-Croatia" project, for which we do not know when, or whether they will be realized at all, will declare already taken steps to combat corruption. We're looking for a lot more. We are looking for a confirmation of political will and determination in the fight against corruption in the daily practice of a completely different model of governance than today's, which in its form and content we keep corrupt. We ask that state institutions, governments and the ruling political majority respect and implement existing laws, not only through the proposal for measures of this programme but in practice, today and tomorrow. And that is why it is unworthy to call SDP and the coalition power for corruption, as Mr Hebrang did just before in the name of HDZ, listing some decisions of the former government and without any arguments or even indications to place them in the area of corruption. Why didn't you gentlemen process them? That's what we're asking of you both yesterday and today and tomorrow. We ask that the Government make transparent money, that the Government transparent taxpayers' money to rule transparently, that taxpayers' money be distributed fairly and on the criteria, that it be spent carefully and easily. We ask that the Government take responsibility without delay, clearly and publicly respond to any corruption tip, and not to treat corruption as such as so far as such a statement is being ignored and blatantly. Such behaviour by government officials headed by the prime minister confirms serious indications that point to a model that flows state money through non-transparent public procurement into private pockets or party registers. We in the SDP as well as the citizens of Croatia think that corruption behaviour is on the rise at the peaks of the ruling political authorities, resulting in an increase in all other types of corruption. That is why corruption in political power needs to be dealt with primarily. A corrupt politician is hardly expected to have real determination in the fight against corruption. Corruption in the judiciary is a special problem. How does the government respond? Instead of taking concrete measures, there is a conflict over who will influence the choice of the President of the Court, but beyond objective criteria. Then how do you expect corruption in the judiciary to shrink? Is it possible that the programme proposes criteria to combat the corruption of judges apply to the appointment of the president of the courts that are currently under way? I'm afraid not. Because it avoids today's government and Prime Minister Sanader. It is just a beautiful story for the European Union that we will start to apply when all those who are unspeakably ready to serve the political authority of the HDZ are deployed. The high risk of corruption is recognised by citizens in the field of health care. The programme sets out 12 measures that should reportedly contribute to the systematic removal of the cause of corruption and fall again on the first step. Namely, the first two measures commit the government to a thorough reform of health and health insurance. At this same session, we will discuss these alleged reforms. Supposedly because yesterday at the Committee's meeting of the Reform Creator, Mr Hebrang, he informed us that it was not really about reform but about small changes. It would be good to agree on what you really intend to do in the field of health and in the field of combating corruption in health before you waste our time in vain and falsely alert the public. Do the fight against corruption in health contribute to the planned but furnished competitions and assignments of jobs to friends and godfathers as in the well-known case of the procurement of Shimatsu equipment? Of 15 competitions, Shimatsu got a job in 14, in the very harsh competition of companies with a much greater reputation and reference. The corruption of political authorities at local levels is very serious and locally growing into local fear. Citizens are valued by jobs, not only when it comes to directors but also literally about parking attendants. Ministers are taking part in the creation of corruption contracts contracting monetary compensation for HDZ support, a clear example of worst political corruption. From what money is such immoral and even in this programme illicit political trade financed by mandates? State institutions are being misused, the confidentiality of personal data is being compromised. About how to, for example. The use of the Tax Administration in Velika Gorica or the police in Virovitica is already widely written in all media. The highlight of hypocrisy is to talk to us about new transparent solutions in the financing of political parties while hiding from the public and even lying about how much it cost and from which sources the HDZ presidential campaign was financed. All we know is that Dom Holding helped HDZ with 500 thousand kuna, and in return he was supposed to get Liburnia hotels. And where's everything that didn't go public? How much more of Ostora, meanwhile, donated 500 grand, and the public doesn't know what they got in return. How much was in the HDZ register from the construction of the section from the highway to the Čacina Dubbaba or the construction of the Krka resort, which were contracted by direct contract instead of the public tender. How suspicious of possible corruption are the millions of information deals negotiated by a direct contract? In the same way, direct contracts also provided trucks for the Croatian Army. Unfortunately, there are no answers, although questions have been raised many times publicly. Are we going to fight corruption by forgetting these very fresh cases? We ask that measures be taken from this application programme and on them. Only in this way, gentlemen, will you ensure the necessary credibility. How is it meant to ensure the responsibility of public administration employees when the ruling policy employs beyond the real needs and objective standards of ability? And the policy of advancement has not moved away from the well-known criteria of the sister-in-laws, sons and daughters, brothers and sisters, and both spouses. Publicity and the transparency of the government are the basic condition of curbing corruption. Citizens' support in the fight against corruption is necessary and irreplaceable. Unfortunately, respected citizens, entrepreneurs, workers, patients, and many others are mostly silent. They shut up more and more because they're afraid of revenge. Until now, corruption has been most frequently pointed out anonymously, which has yielded at least some results. Judging from the government's illogical responses when looking for answers to concrete and documented occurrences of corruption and illegal spending of budget money, we can hardly expect serious treatment of anonymous notifications. For this reason, because of everything said and even unspeakable, because of many examples in which the Government and the Prime Minister are direct protectors and promoters of corruption, on behalf of all those who recognize and help expose corruption, and who are either afraid or not in a position to speak publicly, we ask that it be interrupted with a corrupt form of governance because otherwise, as many of the laws adopted so far, it will remain a dead letter on paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60604	Thank you. We have one series of corrections of incorrect allegations. First, respected representative Marian Bekavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60605	Thank you, Mr. President. A respected colleague found that the government, how the government returned Croatia to corruption in 1990. Dear colleagues, there are a number of examples that this government reduces corruption, from taking care of land books, solving of residual cases in the judiciary, the "Hritro.hr" project, the E-Croatia project, etc. These are examples of how this government is specifically fighting this monster. So this claim from you that this government is returning Croatia back in the fight against corruption does not really stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60606	Second correction by the esteemed representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60607	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm correcting a colleague who said "Hritro.hr" and "E-Croatian" is a small project. These are no small projects, these are key strategic projects if we care about dealing with corruption. So that's an incorrect quote. Second, if it's true that it's... of 15 14 competitions, which respected procedures and laws, which are because it is the find of the State Audit, then it is proof that they are cheaper, more equally quality and are a good example of the collapse of over-inflated health prices and can serve as a good example, not as bad. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60608	Third Amendment, Honored Representative Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60609	Your Honor, Mr. President. I've got one 10 written down, and I'm starting with this last one. Madam representative said this would be a dead letter on paper. Falsely, your program has remained a dead letter on paper, you haven't implemented it, you haven't formed a commission that should have been formed to implement this programme, our program that we propose is the determination to actually implement it to the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60610	Next correction, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60611	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it's incorrect, but it's also an offensive assumption that the president is leading corruption in Croatia. It's incorrect because, in fact, the government is proposing an anti-corruption program unless you were referring to the former Prime Minister who, for free, flew on the Supreme yacht, was giving Lance money as much as he needed in the form of guarantees, free of charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60612	Dear Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic, the next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60613	An esteemed colleague said the government is an instigator of corruption and that its policy is evasive and arrogant. That is simply not true because I have already said in the previous correction how much the government has proposed, and this House has passed over the past two years laws that are essentially anti-corruption. Of course, every parliamentary representative has the right to his opinion and his claims, but I am afraid that you colleagues as vice-president of the former government do not have political legitimacy for such claims for a purely reason because you sat in company with a minister who during earlier the government concluded 50 contracts with his ministry with an anti-corruption amount of 200m kuna so that it is indeed a matter of political legitimacy for such claims.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60614	Next Amendment, Honored Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60615	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative has lied again about the so-called so-called. She used the numbers again for her political purposes. There were 27 competitions of which 9 only won the Shimac. The other company, as she said, was reputed, as she complained about 11 tenders by the State Audit Office, all 11 refused, and the State Audit said of all procedures that the only ministry that carried out all the procurement procedures without breaking the law. I'll do it a few more times today. Second, she incorrectly said that I criticized the former government for cheating 750 million on the state and selling the property of part of Pliva. I didn't criticise the government because that decision, nor does it have its consent, I've criticised you personally, my colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60616	The next amendment, honourable representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60617	An incorrect allegation of a distinguished colleague who literally said that the presidents of the courts and looked at the current minister were named beyond objective criteria. This is an absolutely incorrect allegation, and it is incorrect and incorrect to comment on this legal institute precisely from that or from that government or the representative of that government, whose institution as such introduced it as a practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60618	Dear Representative Branimir Pasecky, next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60619	Well, in the flood of truth, it's not true that we've bought mandates, it's not true that we're not credible, it's not true that people are afraid, and besides, I'm not afraid to question here a huge insubordination and corruption carried out by your president, and I also have the right to doubt corruption, the violation of Croatian territory to another state.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60620	Dear Representative Marko wide, next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60621	Mr. President, the distinguished representative Antunovic is citing examples of corruption that I do not consider to be corruption. Among other things, we're getting a truck. Of course, this procurement was made in accordance with the law, and that assumption is not correct. A public tender has been opened for five items of 18 bidders, since the amount has been over-procured to slightly smaller equipment in accordance with the provisions of Article 6. The law on public procurement, therefore in accordance with the law, and the distinguished lady, at the same time as the minister, concluded one settlement agreement, i.e. the use of a vehicle of 13 million 904 thousand 278.35 kuna without any invitation to tender.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60622	Thank you. Next correction, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60623	Mr. President, it is an incorrect allegation when you put the police in Virovitica in the context of corruption since it is clearly and unequivocally factually described and... Police have seen that police have recorded all the events correctly as they were presented by the state's attorney. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also incorrect that the judiciary and the appointment of the presidents of judges were based on unobstructed criteria. This was done during former Minister Ms. Anticevic's appointment in Virovitica, saying that she had done her job correctly and well in the past term, and the woman had never been president or worked for 8 years in the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60624	IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60625	Honorable President, Your Honor, Madam Minister, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. The people say a lot of midwives, a lush child, so it's here with this and this kind of national program. One is a declaration, one is a beautiful wish, and the other is a Croatian reality. Every 3.4 years we've heard new national anti-corruption programmes are being adopted, each government brings its own anti-corruption programme, and what happens? The nation is tired of phrases that can only swallow naive, and the victim seems naive. All that we've got, it's absolutely beautifully written, but what good will it be to time gentlemen show, but I think the approach is wrong, that even the promoters themselves don't want to admit what's going on in the country. I'm saying that one might be the biggest problem right now is one huge selectivity, and by God's sake, you're supposed to be treating everyone and not just some. This selectivity that is at work, gentlemen, will destroy everything. We can't take down one, the other can't. You can't name one, you can't tolerate one, you can't tolerate one, you can't tolerate the other. In one word,... It must be done towards everyone but in Croatia it is not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In Croatia means institutions don't act the same way for everyone, and I think it may be Croatia's biggest tragedy at this time. Secondly, what's going on in Croatia? I claim that Croatia has taken the capital into its own hands. To tragedy be complete is actually here about converted capital. Stories I don't know Ante Kovacevic that every country has its own mafia, only the Croatian muffin has its own country clearly that they are exaggerations, I won't say nebulosis but that capital and perhaps part of the media has more precisely to control the main levers of society is surely true, and sometimes it is dangerous. The best showing of the situation recently was given by Judge Mr. Šepic of the High Court of Commerce. It is clear that Mr. Šepić is not credible because of his role in this court when, for example, he remembered that Pero, when he allowed the amount of the stakes of a thousand 100 kuna to eventually grow to an incredible 400 million kuna. And this Andrija Kovacevic has withdrawn 160 million kunas of which he will will leave the boy from the Prince Blaža Petrovic, who is related to someone again from that court. But to go back to the state of affairs, which is an extremely interesting matter given by Mr. Šepic. Why would I bring that up? Because I share the view that the Croatian judiciary is neither autonomous nor independent, nor just. In fact, I share the opinion that there is a huge Croatian problem. Whatever policy, which Parliament, which parties, NGOs and those too, but good. But to return to these qualifications of Mr. Šepić in the context of opportunities in the judiciary i.e. A judiciary in which two, three pages are devoted in this material. He says, I agree, the first judges are incredibly solidarity among each other. That's what it stands for. Why? Because everyone knows everything about everyone. Secondly, the connection between lawyers, judges, the purchase of individual cases is more than evident. I mentioned the Zagreb Bank case, but there are also a number of bankruptcy managers, judges, where you have the verdict that, for example, because of the 32,000 kunas of Dalma's 93th debt, this debt can eventually rise to 11 million kuna by the decision of the judge mentioned. I'm not going to say what was destroying society on the inside, and perhaps the biggest economic measure of this government was when the law prevented State interest, or interest, from going on interest. Third, banks and big companies. They literally have a covered part of the Croatian judiciary. It is not possible, for example, for the Commercial Court to assign the 200 acres [200 ha] so-called River. tourism land that did not enter their core capital is not possible in one city where you have a company that invests 500 million kunas and then slows down or the whole investment due to the miscalculation of the brand into dinars at 80 thousand kunas, meaning 20 thousand euros is not possible for what happened at the arbitration court at the Chamber of Commerce in the case of Liburni where the note of a few billion kunas etc. But that's another occasion. Speaking of money, yes, and HDZ got 500 thousand kuna and IDS got from Ostoja 100,000 kuna, and HSP got 100,000 kuna and HSS got 100 or 200 thousand kuna, and DC got 100 or 200 thousand kuna, and HSLS got 100,000 kuna, but it was also true that IDS opened the case of Liburni in the eighth month last year. And that's true. When I talk about the impact of capital, and it should be clearly shown then in business books. When I talk about the impact of capital then I also think about that for example in 2000 but even before, perhaps even now dozens of people in places of assistant minister, deputy, head of agency, secretary of state, etc. comes from the biggest state-owned companies. That's, uh, someone's gonna say, logically, where we're from rather than from these big companies. It's just, do these people do jobs for someone in these companies, or do jobs on the other hand for some country, for the people, for their employers. For who? But it's life, it's Croatia. But in Croatia, the easiest thing to do is to call a representative, some commissioner who is without any power but no one wants to hold a grudge against that capital, especially where in a country like Croatia you have an unemployment rate of 18% and where almost increasing jobs than a million kunas are controlled by 50 or no more than 100 companies in this country. I'm talking about a problem that a couple of exellance is economic, political, corrupt, etc. problem. I have nothing against capital absolutely, but precisely because of the hygiene of this society, we need to separate it from the judiciary and separate it from the influence on politics. I don't mind the government taking care of the position of capital. Of course she has to, she can't get away from it. But she can't be dependent on him. It's clear to me that here and the judges, part of them are, in a way, coleteral victims because they agreed to be dependent on the design of this banking, business and media capital. The only way out of this state of addiction is if the judiciary comes out of its ranks, so it just brings out a really independent judge. Nothing's gonna happen overnight. About that clearly, you can't even create anyone overnight but politics can't do anything about it, they have to do it themselves. It's kind of funny for me to call someone when we say some community gives 100 or 200 thousand kuna to edit a court. That's a little excessive because we know that that's how all the courts to one in this country worked themselves out. But it's a bigger problem when, say, that court is governed by some company, capital, something like that. Politics can do something clearly with local government but not much in the judiciary. For the judiciary, politics can do the most to change the Constitution in the part where the Minister de facto confirms and elects the President of the Courts, and here I now see the dependence of judges on politics. It's a little different at the administration. There is the biggest problem, I dare say, politics, more precisely the complexity of the process, the long-term nature of the procedure, the permanent modification of the rules, which, apart from legal uncertainty, leads clearly after that arbitration, arbitration at that level, and you are walking for a building permit from the office to the office. Someone can do something, someone else can't make it clear. Meanwhile, ten times the same laws change and they're all simply under quotes on ice. The best example is, say, this water fee. In politics where corruption should be sought if by my judgment, to be honest. First of all, if there are laws that will please someone. If we understand each other where we could mix up once across the Privatisation Fund, I think that these processes are over and there's no doubt at all after Liburni opened up that anyone else will play here. But who will buy the remaining Croatian companies? Those who acquired in 1992 or 1993 in the Croatian converted wonder of the factory, the hotels, in a word that then came to capital? Others just don't have the money. They do. They have somehow become masters of life and death in this country. And that's the point. It's someone who's going to say injustice. Unfortunately, I'm afraid she's incorrigible even though I'd be happiest to have something change here. Today in the press people, pillars of society, cariatides, and it shakes the same would be like breaking the bearable walls. Everything would just fall apart. So here and here. They are somewhat dependent on the economic base of the country and Mr Letica lastly said: "In the end these people become also the main fighters for the rule of law in the Republic of Croatia." For me, the key to fighting corruption is still in people. The key to an independent judiciary clearly lies first and foremost in judges. So these people there like Mr. Bajic pulled a cut at the State's Attorney's Office. I don't know, Karamarko in the intelligence community system when he sent 70 employees home, actually retired. Almost 10%. The same thing is, I don't know, university autonomy. Who's gonna fight outside? No one. So only people in that system and so on and so on and what's extremely important if corruption is to be reduced it's the continuity of the legislation and the public of its work that has been working very hard in the last two, three years. Understandable policy must promote the independence of these institutions but everyone who thinks that today is the biggest problem in corruption is solely in people in politics. It's clearly the easiest thing to call them. It won't be the ones who finance someone and so on. And you know who's permanent on the wallpaper and make it "high avi" to the public and so on. The problem of politics is that each government sets itself loyal, I don't know, ministerial assistants, directors, people at the head of certain agencies, large companies, INA, Croatian forests, HEP, I don't know Croatian insurance and so on and that hypertrophy the permanent number of employees which is also, we are all aware of the kind of favoring some people. Health care, I'm not going to talk about it, but I'm going to say that the biggest corruption is that some of the districts where clinical hospital centres are de facto freed from care for health care, and others where general hospitals have to worry about these systems with budgets of 100 to 200 million kuna and what the state from case to case dares to case say self-initiatively forwards one bigger, and the other smaller funds. Where is the real source of corruption in the country? Politics? I think Mr. Radosh was saying something about it. Among other things, or in the first place, maybe just in centralization. So then the state government passes on funds to its own, enters into the construction of some plumbing, churches, I don't know, sewers and so on, and those others leave without funds. And that's the real problem when corruption is related. So I'd say in the first place, the unscrupulousness of the capital that has the state. In second place, the health care system, clear policy. Third centralization that connects to the state and hypertrophics of legal acts. Four political prostitutions where, especially after the 2005 elections, the principle that nothing is so sacred, holy as power and so on. Clearly, the poorer the country will be more prone to corruption, and how is it treated? Publicly, strong individuals within the system who do not agree to be manipulated, individuals who are not on the market who have such a state. And he has to rely on them. It's clear and I agree here with Mr. Hebrang that even politicizing corruption as sometimes seems is actually corruption. We will see clearly what the direct elections in municipalities and cities mean in this context, and I argue that all this would be greatly reduced if we also introduced direct elections for the Croatian Parliament. And I said one last sentence, but I'm going to repeat that the huge problem in this country is that selectivity. To some, nothing else. Some of us are going to tear something down, some of us aren't going to. We'll tolerate some, others won't. Clearly, no one should be crucified on the cross. Let this work be done by the court, but God damn it to everyone in the same way because everything else is destroying the foundations of this community.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60626	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60627	Here's a lot, I have to correct the incorrect quote of fellow Caine when he said that he got something from those guys who took part in the privatisation of Liburnia and HSLS. ... I'd love to until I get that bill to see that... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I have an introduction, I'll consider it incorrect. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60628	Okay. Thank you very much. HSP Club, Honorable Representative Miroslav Rosic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60629	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam Minister. The Croatian party's rights club primarily strongly rejects the attempt to bring about the reason for this, the adoption of this strategy as a source of corruption in the financing of political parties, political campaigns and similar marginal sources of corruption in Croatian society. Alleged trade in mandates and similar things in all democratic systems, which are subject to an assessment of only the morality of the persons who possess that mandate and who have won the elections. Because no political party in normal democracy can and should be some kind of whip of God that will actually force some kind of protection of democratic decision. Corruption, the choice of corruption in Croatia, which is a huge problem of Croatian society and which is really good to become self-aware at least to the extent that our critics and this country and this society are aware of, and come from a whole other choice. All corruption in the world and in all countries when it becomes a problem society always comes from those who possess power in that society, and the power of those who are or have been in power. Their ideas, ideas, procedures, organizations, the structure of responsibility, and the choice of people for public functions have produced a society in which, as stated on page 4 of this Corruption Programme, corruption is not quoted as saying: “Corruption is not an incidental but systematic matter. ” It is so strong, in fact, and at the same time defeating claims made in the adoption of such a strategy that it really needs to be seriously considered. In view of this regrettable fact that it is really necessary to impose the need for the search and identification of concrete creators such as the systematic importance of corruption in Croatian society. It turns out that only two political options have been implemented by the government in Croatia so far, and these are the ruling political option and the former ruling option or to translate from Croatia to Croatian HDZ and partners and SDP partners, and some of these partners because they were both common or shared. A potential debate between the two sides can only go in the direction that has already gone to the Croatian Parliament who is more responsible for corruption. Contest whose anti-corruption programme is better, although it is obvious that the debate will actually come to the attention of whose programme is worse, i.e. whose programme has not been implemented so far. As an overture to this play, one party reported through the media that the corruption government could not fight corruption and the other side fought back that it was declared by incompetent sloths. In such a conflict, HSP believes that these statements are both right and wrong, and that corruption is systemicly important, as this strategy says, to both or if you want to. I'll just say that the purification of a community that I belong to when we gather begins with a sentence to confess our sins. If we continue to fight in a way that we do not confess our sins, all those who were in power or are in power no strategy will correct it in Croatia. The last few years in Croatia have brought countless national programmes, plans, strategies and similar political-propaganda acts. It's about being modern-formed plans, two, three, four and five-year-olds, as it used to be called from the dreams of some great political leaders. These dreams have improved and decorated valuable handles of experienced and eternally the same strategists who love each other from this pay phone or in showing such strategies very often call experts even though we don't really know what kind of persons they are talking about. Multi-annual accumulation of such text makes a significant contribution to Croatian thought, and it is quite reasonable that the presentation of this programme was held in the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. The original message of this act to the Croatian people about the great divide between who we are and what we want or can be contains indisputable philosophical, historical and cultural value but nothing more than that. She could practically stay at that level and in that institution, which is the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. Hyper inflation of software acts is a substitute for not adopting good laws as well as for bad or no implementation of any existing laws and regulations. In Croatia, regulations are not applied when it damages the interests of an individual or a group in power, while at the same time almost daily we witness paradoxical adoption and application of regulations to the harm of citizens and such rules as the implementation of the rules without any remainder. The programme's text repeatedly reiterates that the fight against corruption is a step closer to Croatia's bid to join the European Union's honorable society. As so far, not a single step towards the European Union has been aimed at improving the position of Croatian citizens as opposed to giant steps to facilitate foreign capital gains should be viewed suspiciously by our court. In some cases, what we call bribery and corruption in the European Union is called commission, price service, tips, thanks and so on. For example, it is strongly condemned in our society when 1000 euros thank the doctor for a successful operation at the hospital at the end of the city is considered unacceptable bribes until the same doctor for the same operation far greater than the patient in the rooms of the foreign insurance company clinic is called a bribe, but the price of the service. So let's not ultimately resolve our unethicalness by legalising other people's unethicalness under the exception of market and capital. In this document, corruption concerns only the emerging level through the most visible forms in the judiciary, health care, local self-government and political parties. No mention of the causes of corruption. The introductory part of the programme contains only praise and emphasising the focus towards the computerisation of the state administration because it makes corruption too complicated in the application allegedly. Several projects within the E Croatian framework will not stop corruption, and digitisation nowadays is a normal thing and should not be boasted about programs that are by their nature and simpler than play-station games. It should also be noted that the widespread digitisation of land books does not contain the possibility of searching by the owner's name. So you can't talk about transparency, and it's obvious that there's something hiding in that fact. First, the area of preventive action against corruption is listed by the judiciary. A number of measures written in other programmes are mentioned, as well as in the recent Justice Reform Strategy. All these measures are an assessment of the HSP Club as they are already contained in both the Law on Courts and other positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia. It is interesting that none of these measures provide for the knowledge, i.e. the verification of the knowledge of judicial professionals, and there are, for example, security tests for state lawyers. Several measures focus on ethics, and this category is certainly even harder to measure than knowledge. And just acting without knowing is unethical in itself. One of the senseless measures under the judiciary on page 6 reads: "In the system of legal education to install elements of education in professional ethics and social responsibility, and to organise continuous ethical education. The bearers of this measure are...", be careful now "... The Ministry of Justice, Supreme Court, State's Attorney's Office, etc.". What they have to do with legal education and how they can implement those measures. It's a measure for law schools and for the Ministry of Science and Education, not for them. In fact, we have such a system of education in law schools that, for example, lawyers don't have as objects of philosophy of rights, logic, rhetoric, or even nomothechmics, while at the same time these same students are concerned with sociology and similar subjects. Legal education in our country rests on the Soviet legal system of education and is quite far from the continental-European legal circle that we would like to belong to. And that should be made clear. With health care, the emphasis is on reform and reorganisation. So, health reform and reorganisation. This syntagma when it comes to health, reform and reorganisation I heard at least once a year from a pay phone in this Croatian Assembly. Since '91. until today. Once a year, health and health reform and reorganisation are mentioned, and these magical words actually give legitimacy to the political elite in power, and behind them really is absolutely nothing. Especially in a state that regulates its social issue according to the International Monetary Fund. And in today's time when there's more technique, medical devices, when buildings work faster and cheaper than ever, when we have a doctor more than ever, we instead of increasing rights we reduce them. The health care system's only a harbinger of foreign capital entering that will grab a huge part of the health care fund. The two systems cite the local level of government and political parties. Oh, no, you don't. This should indicate the fact that corruption is only possible in a society where its existence is tolerated at the top of the political administration. And nowhere else. At the top of the political administration is the current ruling party with its coalition partners, and accordingly these two areas of corruption concern only them. Of course, there are countless negative examples for the former government. I remind you that the HSP club in the past government, in the past government, has initiated the introduction of a concept of conflict of interest in Croatian political life when it comes to corruption. Policy and economy is the highest form of corruption. But what happened? It happened that our bill in this Croatian Parliament was massacred to unrecognizable and I must say that then in the cooperation of the ruling SDP and then the opposition HDZ on the principle that what happened was, in principle, the best solution for pollution was dilution. So we are in this law instead of condemning and through the law we have measures to prevent the highest form of corruption, sprawl, politics and economy, we actually get the stupidity of investigating property cards, municipal chiefs and things like that. Of course, I must admit that I have certainly not revealed America to any of you or those who are watching us now if I say that the basis for an effective fight against corruption has been called upon so many times in this society by a legal state, equality before the law and a high ethical judiciary. The co-operation of the police, the state's attorney's office and the courts, without exception. Because ladies and gentlemen, we must admit that in Croatia, thieves do not dare to steal or receive bribes, but only when someone needs them and becomes a need for personal, monetary or political reasons. Those who get out of such situations like eels, i.e. they have conditionally told their people in the police, the state's attorney's office or the politics of them this society calls them an interesting name, capable and smart entrepreneurs and economics. If this is how we reverse the terms, then it is quite clear from here that it is a pointless demagogue calling on the prime minister to, quote: "Each in Croatia must make a contribution to the common fight against corruption, it is not good to have political bickering on the subject, and we must all engage in the fight against corruption. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true what the prime minister says, but let us not invite all of us to cooperate, all of us who have actually wanted to eradicate or reduce corruption in the Croatian state for years, but let what he said realise that it is his job. And if he stops corruption under his responsibility there will be no corruption anywhere else in Croatia, at least not to this extent as it is today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60630	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60631	I am correcting an incorrect quote, a better conclusion or sylogism that my colleague Rosic performed by premise that the one who has power is corrupt or that he may be corrupt. The second is the premise of HDZ and comrades, SDP and partners had power. The SDP and HDZ conclusions are corrupt, and HSP is not. The error of that conclusion and inaccuracy is in this. Where the HSP smelled power, it proved that it could be incomparably more corrupt than it was the Požega Zac case, the Sisak purchase of two councilmen, all done by the HSP. The case, if you want the idylla Sanader Djapic is also part of corruption behavior. So this suggests that your sylogism is extremely simplified and in, the conclusion is logical and incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60632	HNS club, PGS, MDS, respected representative Zeljko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60633	Dear Mr. President, Ms. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, on behalf of the PGS, SBH and the IMF, let me briefly refer to this National Corruption Prevention Programme. Our club will be restrained in support of this program. We certainly support the intention to strengthen the fight against corruption, but we also think that this is only possible in decent application of the existing laws that we have passed and changed in this House over the past years. Unfortunately, the practice is opposite, laws, strategies and programmes are adopted that are not applied, and police and judicial actions that are being taken give poor results. Everyone shifts responsibility to each other, and no one really has the courage to start solving the corruption problem itself. It is therefore known that on 21 March 2002, the parliament has already adopted a national programme to combat corruption with an action plan, but no commission has been formed. Unfortunately, we can conclude that the situation has not improved, i.e. that on the index, on the scale of the corruption index Croatia did not significantly improve its position. From all this, it actually turns out that there is no real political will to fight corruption itself. What exactly is corruption? Corruption is considered any form of abuse of public authority for personal gain. Such is a broad definition that covers a large circle of phenomena. Public opinion is a political way of speaking under the notion of corruption involving quite different social phenomena. Organized economic crime, poor authority and its consequences, human depravity and the haughtiness of power. There is no legal provision of corruption, but conventionally under this term is considered to be giving and receiving bribes, illegal intervention, abuse of the duties of state authorities, abuse of positions and powers, conclusion of a harmful contract, giving away official secrets, issuing and unauthorized acquisition of business secrets. Each of these definitions reveals an individual element of the phenomenon of corruption and although disputes can be held about the determination, the social and political damage to corruption and its existence in the Republic of Croatia are uncontestable. In the debate, we all agreed so far that corruption is harmful, although it has always existed in the modern state, it becomes a danger because it damages the performance of social affairs, lowers the necessary level of morality in political decision-making, blocks public administration, makes the judiciary ineffective. There are various calculations of corruption damage. But the biggest shame is that it distorts priorities in political and economic decision-making and is devastatingly damaging public responsibility and social morality. The assessment of the breadth of corruption suggests that corruption is the real problem of the Republic of Croatia, so the most important criterion here was the scale of the international transparency on which Croatia is therefore somewhere in the 70th place, which is a place that does not encourage us but tells us that the index is therefore very large. Ratings are given from zero to ten, five is a passing grade, and Croatia has been moving around a score of 3.5 for years. But if they were watching something else, it would turn out that there is no corruption in Croatia at all. According to statistics, this is a very small number of reported, accused and convicted persons for corruption crimes. So, for example. in the period from 1992 to 97, so during the period when the famous conversion and privatisation took place, for which we all here in the Parliament have given an assessment of what it was like, everyone is actually talking about the robbery and not the conversion and privatisation. Thus, a total of 3,316 crimes were reported in that age. During this period 1,408 indictments were filed, and 570 persons were legally convicted. Thus, there is a kind of filtering of corruption cases during the criminal proceedings and a conviction ends in 17.2% of the cases reported, and an unconditional prison which is intended for acts only 13 or 0.0392, so a percentage of the cases reported. So that's what our conversion and privatisation came down to, that actually no one was punished for that, and we all agreed that malfeasance and fraud was a big deal. It is similar with USKOK data for 2002 and 2003. So I'm talking about the years when Croatia received a score of 3.6 when it was 67th place on that scale. In 2002, the office received applications against 138 people for corrupt crimes. 89 people have been reported to receive bribes. So in the structure of corrupt crimes, these crimes prevail, meaning taking bribes that were represented by 65%. Then bribery crimes represented by 32%, and 3% were reported crimes of abuse of the government's duties. In 2003, this office received applications against 108 people. Penalties of bribery were represented with 65 applications or 55.6%. The charges of bribery are followed by 34 applications, abuse of the duties of the state authorities with 5 applications and a criminal offence against the law of 4 applications. So we see that these data are in fact contrary to both the public assessment itself which says that our society is extremely corrupt, and so on with those indices that I mentioned earlier. So it's a fundamental problem that is the efficiency of the entire system from the investigation to the end of the judicial process. I'm sure this way we can't fight corruption. What we'd like to warn you about is, therefore, point 4 that speaks of local self-government. In fact, it would be good for all the laws that are passed in this House to have some kind of anti-corruption note or characteristic. Here it is said that the Law on the Direct Selection of Mayors, Mayors, Mayors of the City of Zagreb and the Municipal Commissioners will contribute to preventing corruption at local level. This may be true if the government remained in that first version of the Law on Choice where, therefore, the choice of those leaders was made by citizens through direct elections. But we heard last week, so from the government's session that the government was going with a proposal that those same chiefs elected by the citizens in the direct elections could also be replaced by the Government on a proposal from the representative body. We think it's not good, and it will greatly increase the possibility of corruption in our local self-government. Because once again, the struggle for councilors will begin, we often hear that they are offered a lot, that unless a government or a political option is answered by the current mayor, mayor or mayor of the City of Zagreb to take action to replace it through the representative body. This is the situation we had, we remember, when there was a crisis in the City of Zagreb and we saw, therefore, what kind of consequences we have. I don't think that we should go, therefore, into these changes and that the laws that we are making are laws that will contribute to the fight against corruption, and not to open up the possibility, therefore, that this corruption will increase further. And to end, once again, to repeat that we will be restrained, so in support of this program, that the programme itself brings nothing new. They'd say he'd serve all of us as some kind of handwashing because it's for us, and yet nothing's going to change. What we need is a strict and impartial application of the law, respecting the principle of equality of all before the laws, an active role of police and judicial authorities, while achieving their independence, especially without the influence of politics. Also, what is important is that we all take this problem seriously because the current situation of things suits the development of attitudes among our citizens, especially those of younger people. That success in life is not about different abilities and talents, industriousness and work, but about the ability to bypass laws and grease in the right places. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60634	Thank you. The club debate in the first round is over. We're going to an individual debate. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60635	Dear Mr. President, from this morning's press, I will read the headlines on this subject. "Nenad Šepic reported by Mladen Bajic", "Mladen Bajic prosecuted Nenad Šepić", "The State's Attorney's Office is investigating the Zac government", "Glado Zec faked the final bill and stole a million kuna dividends". "The son of former HUP chief also forged foreign language school testimonies", "Land of Bevc by order of Linic and Pankretić", "The Mayor Ivan Jakovčić illegally stole the town in Istria", "The President Mesic lost control and was in charge of all". "Secretary action of USKOK student in colleges, panic among professors." "Kirin's Vices Against the Mafia," "Who's Crazy, Racan or Journalists", "Mesic and Sanader are replacing Alka's bosses" and "Because of moving an hour in advance, cows are under a lot of stress". These are some headlines from today's newspaper that show that there are serious problems with corruption in Croatia. I prepared a "power point" presentation there. Let's move on. We can move on. I'll tell you what my general evaluations of this program are, and I'll say I have constant anxiety because the minister inherited a program that doesn't really know the real author. We got two papers, one called "glass pocket" and this is the government's document. They are in 80% of content identical and I have long advocated the necessity of authorizing papers that come to the House of Commons. You should know who did it, how and how it's allowed to repeat the texts. As far as my evaluation of this proposal is concerned, I will sum it up at these five points. They're a little radically set up. The first is that he's theoretically worthless. The second is that it's humiliating to the state officials who have to defend it today. Thirdly, he is offensive to Croatian scientists and parliamentary representatives. Fourthly, it is politically harmful to the Republic of Croatia and is socially sterile as any placebo medicine. Further slide. Therefore, in order to make one serious national programme, there should be 4 basic assumptions. There should be political will, and I assume that there is an elementary political will on the side of the ruling coalition and on the side of the opposition. The second element should have knowledge theoretically and practically. This paper shows that there is no such knowledge. Thirdly, there is, there should be social support that certainly exists and that there is public support and media from those headlines, you will see that it exists. Let's move on. We're actually going twice as far. As for the use of theoretical knowledge, I have listed seven international institutions that have systematic research into corruption and that have anti-corruption and manuals and projects and programmes. United Nations, World Bank, European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, OECD, Council of Europe, European Union and International Transparency or Transparency International. Next slide. I would like to draw attention to the big differences in the investigation of corruption when it comes to two institutions. International transparency, Transparency International, is investigating citizens' ideas of corruption. So she's investigating how much we as citizens give, and that's why in public when people are being questioned, there's the impression that it's a much more serious problem, so-called. petty corruption. So, in health care, in social services, in the state administration, in education and elsewhere. The World Bank has a different approach. She's investigating the company's idea of corruption. Let's move on. One more time. I will now present to you this assessment of corruption in the Republic of Croatia that I have done based on relevant research by the World Bank, OECD and international transparency. Political so-called Over the last 15 years, debt or large corruption has amounted to around 800m euros. Administrative official corruption related to company payments according to World Bank surveys of about 200m euros and to citizens' payments of about 300m and third, professional or metric corruption accounted for about 400m euros annually. Let's move on, now we'll go through the slides to see, that's all the World Bank data, let's move on. So political corruption comes down to two types of Croatian legislation still unrecognized crimes, the criminal offence of the capture of the state... I'll tell you how easily you can. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If you take the tax returns of a former economy minister in 2000 when he reported the rest of the income of 30 thousand kuna and at the end of his term when he grew to 35 million, then it is a classic case of capture of the state and there is a notion of influence. Let's move on. There are definitions. Let's move on, forms of capture of the state. Let's move on, we'll just go on, they are. As far as capture of the state, Croatia is one of the most corrupt countries in the transition, according to corruption of the state, about 27% of companies have some experience in corruption. Let's move on. When it comes to small, further, small clerks, further. You see, by official corruption, we are at the beginning of transition countries. It is good to know that Palaric also knows that he has good officials who are not corrupt, but we politicians are corrupt, not all of us. Let's go all the way, to practical measures, two last slides. Let's move on, keep going. Here's one mode of integrated dealing with corruption that I would suggest you adopt. And the last two slides we'll stick around. What needs to be done, I've written strategic decisions. First, spend this debate all the way and choose a second reading. Secondly, to establish a Croatian Anti-Corruption Union that would be called HASO as an alliance for Europe, then in two months prepare a study of dirty hands, a review of corruption research in the Republic of Croatia and transition countries. Fourthly, within three months prepare a new national programme of corruption under the name of a clean hand and a clean cheek for the period until 2012. And the last slide I'm going to bring out here, which should be done specifically. The new Law on Political Parties, the new electoral legislation in one law, the first Law on lobbying because there is absolute savagery in this House, and the other day we were victims of mobbing where two colleagues fell into the provocation that we had implemented the law, a debate on a law that now civil society would send to European and parliament and I don't know in the Court of Human Rights to portray us as homophobes. Fourth, the establishment of the U.S.A., the Office for the Prevention of State Detainment and the fight against political corruption. Fifthly, the adoption of the Law on the State Agency for Returning illegally acquired assets on the basis of what the HSP Club proposed, which was rejected, would suggest to you, as an example, the British agency the... Agenty, about that on Monday... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatian TV about those drug lords. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Both the sixth and last ones that will please our prime minister to establish an interactive Clean HR portal modelled by the Bulgarian anti-corruption portal after HITRO HR. All in all, with the greatest sympathy for 10 government officials who are listed in the memo as those who unfortunately have to defend this short text, means 10 state officials defend 21 pages, 2 and a half pages per state official's head based on one programme for which no student of mine in the first year of the first seminar shop would receive a passing grade. Finally, I would like to find out from you as a proposal from the Minister who really did this program and how much it was paid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60636	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60637	Comrade Letica, you said you had no doubt that there was a good will with the government to implement this program. I doubt that as long as there is one example that the government headed by Prime Minister Sanader is involved in corrupt activities. In Split, two HSU councilors crossed over after the election from our list and gave authority to the HDZ against whom 83% of the citizens of Split voted. That is why they were rewarded by Prime Minister Sanader and the Croatian government by one being placed in the Administrative Council of the Port Authority, the other by the Brodo-Split Supervisory Board. Mr. Shakespeare right on the radio said that such cases should be punished unconditionally, because this is proof that corruption exists in society. I agree with him, but it has shown here that the government directly participated in the corruption of immoral politicians in order to win HDZ power in the city of Split. You know what the people say about that. You know what he says? Who about what, a whore about honesty?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60638	I don't know who you mean, whether it's very difficult, but please, gentlemen at the replica, copy the quote of the one you look back at. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60639	In high school, you had to learn something about human nature, that people by definition are neither good nor evil, especially if they are not specified by party lines. In these headlines I've read, except in the sympathetic context of the blue alka, there's no mention of dr. Ivo Sanader, and as far as I've seen, and I haven't received a single replica, is mentioned by your colleague Slavko Linic. So don't go that far when it comes to honesty and dishonesty, the occasion is a thief, but some thieves are thieves of great proportions, and some are small pockets, intellectuals and others. For example, there is nothing about nepotism that should also be included in the program. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60640	And the esteemed representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60641	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Slaven Letica, I'm replicating the part where you said you believed that there was a good will in the government to calculate it with corruption. I have to admit that you challenged me to a replica because if there really was a good will there was an excellent program for calculating with corruption, and you can find it on the pages of transparency international. Therefore, if the programme had applied to Croatian reality, I really think we would have solved all the problems. So I'm not quite sure there was such a good will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60642	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60643	I would agree with you that there is no political will. If he had it, Ratko Cacic would have been in the dungeon long ago on the basis of documents I gave both to the state's attorney and the Prime Minister at the beginning of the term of office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60644	Dear Representative Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60645	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! It was my intention to talk about the fight against bribery and corruption in terms of some knowledge and some to say experiences in this struggle. However, I have decided to give priority to an example from the previous government that I personally experienced because today a debate is still focused on proving who is more corrupt. It's not really my intention, and it's not my goal, and it's certain that we have a less effective chance of fighting bribes and corruption. The programme proposed, the commission to be formed, will be guaranteed both this authority and Parliament that this programme will be implemented. But let me say a few words now. In the discussion of the 2002 budget, I said that I had a complaint and a complaint from the Technomechniki of Maria Bistrica, who appeared on a 600 million kuna tender, which was announced in 22.9.2002 for the purchase of fire trucks. The public tender is open. Among others, Technomechnik also reported on the contest and was 150 million cheaper than the other firm that received the German consortium that received the job. After a public address and writing in the paper and my search for an invitation to tender has been cancelled. But then news appeared in the morning list on June 27th that the Government of the Republic of Croatia was in a closed session, which is Mrs. Antunovic's response to transparency, made a decision on a direct contract and gave 604 million kuna for the job with the German consortium. I immediately wrote a letter to the Prime Minister and asked for an answer as a parliamentary representative, and I asked if you were already going to form a consortium why you did not form a consortium of Croatian governments such as Tehnomehanika Marija Bistrica, Končar, Djuro Djakovic and other companies that are able to do the metal-processing industry that is able to fully implement the programme in Croatia. And now watch miracles again. I didn't get an answer. There were 230 people working at the company in Maria Bistria and 230 people were fired and the company fell apart. They are jobless today and the German Austrian consortium has got this job and here are the vehicles entering Croatia, and that is 600 million kunas of total value. And now I get an answer from the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 9 month 23.9.2003, which says this: "On the occasion of this request, there is an ongoing preparation of the entire documentation and an indication in which it will fully answer the question of Agent Ivan Jarnjak." As far as I know, according to our Rules of Procedure, the Government is required to respond within 30 days. I get an answer after three months to get an answer. And I never got that second answer. The government's gone, the business's gone, the company's gone. The only thing that's constant is people who don't have a job. Here, so much for examples. Has anyone got anything for it, has anyone received anything for it, has there been any bribery and corruption, I don't know, and I can't argue. But all the doubts say that without the devil it was not given for 150 million more expensive abroad to work than here in Croatia. And now, finally, let me say something about fighting corruption. I think it's important to point out here today and dissipate when it comes to corruption. We have two types of corruption even though one is dangerous. It's one that speaks when a man pays to achieve his law guaranteed rights and that's the part that absolutely goes to the heart of a non-functioning rule of law. We need to make this clear and loud, and that's the part where mostly the largest number of people appear, and that's the part that especially needs to be fought to make the rule of law work, because that's the moment that's going to go away and that part of bribery and corruption. So those who say HR quickly, to land books, give the Central Treasury that it's not an anti-corruption programme. Well, people, it's the biggest event ever in a meaningful anti-corruption struggle. And the other part I especially advocate to be and far more severe punishments are when a man pays someone to exercise a right to which he is not entitled under the law. I suggest that it be divided into criminal policy because this second part is precisely in the sense of achieving the right of some material certainty because in the end it all comes down to what is not within the law of law. And those involved in the participation of statesmen, officials or anyone in this way participate in this is a category that should be particularly punished. And lastly, when it came to the formation of the USKOK that we supported and said it was good, then I specifically said that I believe that in the USKOK, but also in this programme, it should be said that whoever has to pay for the right of health to put it under that third or you want the first category as the most difficult form of bribery and corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60646	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60647	Well, Mr. Jarnjak, in your debate, you spent most of the debate on the story of the former government. It would have been much better if you had talked about the problems today and in the work of your government because you are now in power. The former government has won citizens' opinion on its work in the last elections. The citizens have said everything they think we haven't done well. They've objected to us a lot. But they never objected that we were dishonest in our authority. Because now that you've said some things here, it would be good to process these thieves from the former Racan government after almost three years of office. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60648	Reply to the Replica Honored Representative Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60649	My colleagues, Opačić, presented an example in which 600 million kunas were untransparently spent. In which a non-transparently approved job is a foreign supplier that I have nothing against. It's a game of competition. But I'm collecting 150 million kuna from a local who's left 230 people out of a job. And I didn't say for a moment that this government was unfair. Let me say, "There's something that stinks." It still stinks, and if it smelled, our voters, or your constituents, who said to you, "Someone smells there," they said, "We will not trust them." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60650	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60651	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Madam Ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. While the government gives us its proposal for a national programme to combat corruption from 2006 to 2008 uncontested objective indicators testify that Croatia is losing the battle with corruption. In the last two years, corruption has deteriorated dramatically in Croatia. Such a state of affairs is causing serious concern, and of course it must mobilise all factors in Croatian society and state to stop this negative trend and things start to improve. The truth is, the government is now calling for unity. However, the responsibility of the authorities is certainly greater than the responsibility of the citizens. The responsibility of the government is the greatest. How the government behaves like that and testifies whether she really means it. Transparency International recently published the results of a comprehensive survey on the perception of corruption conducted in 159 countries, and according to this survey Croatia returned to where it was, where we found it in 1999. At the end of that year. Croatia is beautifully launched. It is thus situated Croatia alongside Burkina Faso, Egypt, Le Soto, Saudi Arabia and Syria. It is a wonderfully run Croatia. Is that what the citizens expected? Is that an election promise: "Let's start Croatia!" Here's where you put her. So, according to the citizens of Croatia, one of the biggest problems that is also the biggest obstacle for Croatia's entry into the European Union has become corruption, or corruption. The corruption of those who need to be a pillar of state and society, the setting up of jobs and jobs, corruption in local self-government units, all of these are the problems that have dramatically pushed the country. That Croatian citizens are simply desperate for corruption and that they believe Croatia looms in corruption to show research and presentation of a global barometer of corruption. According to the survey, Croatian citizens cited low standards, unemployment and corruption as the biggest problem. 80% of Croatian citizens said they barely cover basic living costs. Likewise, business people see corruption and job setting as the most serious problem in their business. These are also reasons why foreign investors do not invest enough in Croatia. The USD director for Croatia announced just a few days ago that the reasons why Croatia for foreign investors is still a risky country is just corruption, bureaucracy, unresolved issues, issues about issuing building permits. Also, just a few days ago, the World Bank published a ranking of competitiveness according to which Croatia ranks 118th of 180 surveyed countries. And the recent delay in the comparison of domestic legislation with European Union legislation on the area of justice is not of course and it does not have to be disastrous in itself, but from Brussels to the highest ranking our highest ranking has come this answer: "Don't come to Brussels until you fix this situation with your own corruption." That's what I'm told. You can see that shaking hand only comforts or easing problems won't help. There can be neither room nor reason to be angry. The arguments state the digitisation of land books. Please, a nice project of catastra and land books was launched in 2002. It is true, gentlemen, that this programme, or the continuation of this programme, is not going in the right direction, because now only digitisation is being done mainly and incorrect data is being copied. The thing is, right now, the land books are being corrected, consistent with the actual state of affairs, which is certainly a more exhaustive job and then transformed into an electronic form. So it's a program that's now being continued but slowed down and not as it was for, as it was expected. It also often stands out here as "Hurry HR". However, this is not an argument which knocks down those exact indicators and corresponding to them an objective assessment. Of course the Fast HR program can help. Especially if it expands its scope for building essential businesses; the issue of building permits, for example, is considered to be one of the greatest dangers of corruption anywhere in the world. Not these jobs that can otherwise be done in the mail. So they're essentially part of the job exactly expected to take over the Speedy. But what's most important is that this program, "Swift" is not allowed, cannot be facilitated by the abuse of debtors, which is precisely through the amendment of a certain law and done. The whole series of affairs and scandals that have been burdening this government since the beginning are a serious obstacle to perception that therefore this very government is willing and able to fight corruption. In fact, a whole series of events and behaviors that every little bit upsets the public create the impression that this is no longer a controversial phenomenon. About the phenomena isolated from the essential features of the way this government is already about its being a political action. Autocratic and often corrupt tendencies of this government are seen behind the thin coating of European expression. Political but not only political democracy can't be if it's manipulated by masses. That is why governments around the world are being offered to publish more and more information. The characteristics of totalitarian aspirations lie precisely in keeping the monopoly on information. Therefore, the basic and initial legislative act in the fight against corruption is, above all, in its prevention of the Law on the right to access information that was adopted in 2003. And it is under this law that the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia condemned the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Dr. Ivo Sanader for disobeying that law, and for short information from a journalist. Is the coincidence afterwards that the president who was the President of the Administrative Court Mr. Mladen Turkalj has survived several governments and mandates for many years. He's no longer president of the court. I personally don't believe in such a coincidence at all. In addition, after moving from that main position, it was just in progress that it spoke on behalf of Mrs Antunovic's club. The man from Sibenik has been removed. The only candidate with all the recommendations, the government boasted that this was an example of the Municipal Court in Sibenik and the arrangements of the land and book state were not appointed. The explanation is informally that it is a person close to the SDP. I think who gave such an explanation is not close to his own brains, because it's something scary. The objective indicators say one thing, but there's someone who seems to be getting close. There you see no open door as the propaganda of this government that suggests to citizens its openness, the transparency of decision-making, and no matter how much funds are spent it will not help. Fleeing from reality in a virtual world does not achieve real results. In fact, from the open door, we got to the clause. That is why the government, which has purposed at least to declare it, is obliged to discipline others and is called primarily to examine its own actions. Gentlemen, this is about you. Perhaps for a start it would be good and encouraging for the government itself to submit to this first, basic anti-corruption law and start answering the public's asked questions. I personally can't get a question on two occasions already, I can't get an answer to the question of how many new people are employed in the public administration. The administration answers the question from the world that your reception conditions in the public service have no answer. That is why the first task of this government is to clean up in its own ranks and institutions. But that's not exactly what's happening. It's easier to write a program than to act on it. You see, how to trust the Government and whether to trust it with the best intention if on page 4 of this National Programme proposal, the Government literally writes that the National Programme with an action plan that was adopted in 2002 has not been implemented. It literally stands. And you see what the government writes about the world. This was sent to the world thinking maybe you thought we at home didn't know what you were talking about outside, so on page 12 of the document you sent out literally stands. In April 2001, Croatia adopted the National Anti-Corruption Programme together with the Action Plan. Most of the measures provided for in the National Anti-Corruption Strategy have already been achieved on all the issues the world asks of, and Europe you answer exactly with what you want to deny here what has already been carried out. You haven't been able to boast of anything new. However, what is written in the document is less important. So it's very important how the government behaves. It's not even about this insistence program on the old one, or the problem is that it's been brought in or brought in a new one. What matters is how much, as the government really testifies to its example, that it is truly willing and able to deal with corruption. Is the government in which Minister Vukelic sits an example? Then maybe that would be an example... plan. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60652	Thank you. Representative Kruno Peronja rectification of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60653	Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The colleague has just incorrectly stated several times that foreign investors are not interested in investing in Croatia, because this is because of inter alia the slowness of administration, corruption, etc. However, the data daily says that they are very interested. They are interested in the purchase of the Split Bank, the traffic of real estate is increased. Of course those who do not want to risk will wait for Croatia to enter the European Union then... foreign investors come to the Croatian Adriatic and those who want to risk more, and less pay them daily do so exactly according to official statistics on the purchase of real estate in Croatia as well as banks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60654	Second correction by the respected representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60655	Your Honor, Mr. President, I have two corrections. First of all, it is not an accurate claim from a respected colleague, Anticevic, that there is objective data that the Republic of Croatia is losing the battle with corruption. I'd like to make two arguments. First, I would like to say what others say about us, which is the statement of the Vice-President of the European Commission in charge of industry and entrepreneurship... which specifically pointed out the Croatian Hitro-HR project which was introduced in some European Union countries before the European Union, by the stop shop for the opening of small and medium-sized enterprises, and the assessment by the European Commission that the Republic of Croatia is the leading country of the region in order to improve the entrepreneurial climate for the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also certain that Croatia would not have received the most favourable credit so far from the European Investment Bank for road construction Zagreb – Rijeka under the most favourable conditions so far. If Croatia had been a corrupt country, it certainly would not have happened, and in the end I would just like to say Mrs Antičević once again mentions the delay in screening for the chapter of the judiciary, she is knowingly telling the truth because she was also a representative of the European Commission who was in Dubrovnik, and Mrs Anticevic was present at the meeting clearly and unequivocally said that the screening was delayed for technical reasons to ask for a representative of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60656	Dear Representative Josip Djakic is the next correction to the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60657	Mr. President, I will correct the incorrect allegation of a distinguished colleague, Anticevic, where she claimed that belonging to the SDP was a dispute in the appointment of the president of a particular court. I assure you that it is absolutely incorrect, but are the criteria that speak of whether fellow judges support such a person for the president or certainly those who speak of whether she will be appointed or not, but I will specify what is true that Mrs. Anticevic wrote in her term in the explanation that the President of the Court is similar to that place because she has performed a number of years of duty, and Mrs. 8 years has not been in a working relationship and has never been the President of the court in Virovitica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60658	Dear representative Bozica Solić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60659	Thank you very much. Here it is not true, Madam Representative, that the Government has not provided you with an answer to your representative's question where you listed the government's question of how many new employees have been employed since the start of the term of office. That's not true. A month ago, you were given the answer to your representative's question, and you need to know that. But I'd like to ask you now how many of you fired your attorney, how many cops you fired.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60660	Okay, thank you. It's no longer a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60661	Ambassador, and how many of your SDPs did you hire at work?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60662	Dear Representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60663	Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We are here today discussing the proposal of the National Corruption Prevention Programme from 2006 to 2008. However, as the debate began, not to discuss the repression of corruption but rather to politicise such a law by attacking the government and accusing other political parties of corruption. I would like more debates on the Law on Measures, on preventing corruption. And I'm sorry that they're knowingly false. Mr. Jandrokovic had already said, the other day we were in Dubrovnik and there was Mrs. Ingrid with us in Dubrovnik and Mr. Pierre Birrell clearly said when he realized, Pierre Birrell, the director in Dubrovnik had clearly said, delaying the screening for the judiciary, he said it was my fault, I made that delay for technical reasons. Because the previous countries that entered the European Union did not have any elements in the screening that Croatia and Turkey now have. And I made that screening delay. Mrs. Anticevic was present, and she heard it. Mr. Birrell said and replied to Mrs. Pusic. I don't know why now, untruely, the future public is watching this debate of ours, why we've been misinformed by this public. You heard what the gentleman said there had nothing to do with the Croatian judiciary, with the position of the Croatian judiciary in society, and this is a fraud. To begin with. In the broadest sense, we view corruption as any form of abuse of power for the sake of personal and common benefit, whether it be the public or private sector. Corruption is part of concepts that are difficult to determine content, since its meaning is also changed by a different time, social and political context. The classical understanding of corruption in political science stems from the idea that corruption is an expression of the moral value of society being corrupt. The emergence of a modern and democratic society considers corruption not only morally harmful but one of the causes of ineffectiveness of the state. Corruption is therefore a behaviour that is deviating from normal public duty for personal benefit. She's a violation of the norms to achieve personal interest. This phenomenon is characteristic to a greater or smaller extent for all countries in the transition phase towards the market economy. Privatisation of large social and state assets means the transfer of great value to private hands, which means an enormous possibility of getting rich at the expense of public interest. It is precisely the process that brought transition countries closer to the temptation of corruption. In addition, corruption is supported by a weak state, and this concept shows the inability of transition states to cope with the problem of good functioning of authorities. Because transition is not only about turning socialism into democracy and socialism into capitalism, but also about a series of other changes. First of all, psychological and social changes are involved because people have lost solid orientations show how important the example is in such circumstances. If individuals are rich overnight, they are troubled by their moral values, and average intelligence and abilities mean that the state of excessive search for success has prevailed. Such circumstances in transition favor corruption. The phenomenon of corruption has different causes that can be economic, institutional, political and social. Small salaries of civil servants, and their delay, the lack of legal will in the fight against corruption, the non-transparency of the legal system, the inadequate accounting system, the fall in moral values caused by high-level corruption. All these are the causes of developed corruption, of developed corruption in society. In Croatia, corruption is often associated with urban planning and building permits. Many would swear that there is no link in the chain of dating that has not been glued to. To some extent, it's probably true. But since urbanism is a picture of the state of society, that means that all its segments are equally clean or the Dalmatians would say health care, education to all media and administrations. Also the same from the lowest decision-making scale to the top of the government. In addition, money is not only corrupt but also political effects, whether it is an individual or a foreigner. Whenever people are in a position of power and decision-making urbanism is just a picture where all of this can be best seen, whether it's about deciding on the purpose of some space or approval to set two kiosks in an attractive location. Of course, that should be discussed and decided, but people get through a lot when they hear some illogical decisions or see inappropriate concerns for some city problems. The bribery of some people cannot be justified at all, but unfortunately that is not the worst that society can mean. What's worse than corruption... entrepreneurship is when there is no corruption in entrepreneurship. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When nothing is done and nobody decides not to charge him with buying it. When all decisions are delayed in the absence of loops to be made when absolutely nothing comes. Is there any chance of any kind of city project someone's gonna stop for, we're gonna risk him being illegally declared corrupt? Meanwhile, some State's Attorney's Office and the DOJ are doing their job, as revealing mythology and corruption give a chance for normal work and decision-making. The one who's not corrupt knows it's not and that must be enough reason for a decision he thinks is real. Corruption hampers economic progress, creates obstacles for future producers and entrepreneurs and pushes potential foreign investors coming from countries with developed legislation. Also, corruption is increasing and tightening the social gap, encouraging efforts to live in an unfair way beyond the possibility and richly diminishing the value of patient work, savings and honesty. Corruption improves economic efficiency, kidnaps funds from the poor and gives the rich, increases business costs, distorts public expenditures and rejects external investors. Who uses the function for personal breakthrough is at risk of the very foundation of the structure of government and economy. Because of widespread corruption, the economy is not developing in accordance with free market rules, population poverty is deepening and non-trust in state structures is growing. The fight against corruption should very quickly achieve the goal of increasing the efficiency of the private sector, then the goal of accelerated economic development and increasing the efficiency of the state and local self-government. All objectives can only be achieved by implementing a comprehensive and long-term sustainable anti-corruption strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60664	Thank you. Just before was the presentation of the respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović and they were the replicas of MPs Zeljko Kurtov and Vice President Milinović, I signed them up, but I did not read them, please forgive me. ... Yeah, now we can't take it back, right, so we'll go to the replicas. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Dear Representative Zeljko Kurtov, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60665	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to define things in this replica and try some examples. For example, a county councilwoman in Zadar asks a question and gets threats. Gentlemen, it's not just about the threats, but it's about getting the car up in the air, burning the car down. So, citizens who have courage or politicians, who have been brought in, say, Zadarski, had a recent car set on fire, they opposed someone and something and such actions in various ways, burning cars with explosive devices, neula land or not getting concessions in the spatial plan, they're just one of the revenges of people who are condemned to say something public. We have another example. The planting of permanent plantations on the agricultural good crow, the owner of Steve's bug. I specifically called the State Inspectorate, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Assembly Committee on Agriculture, and no one was able to tell me how to stop it, which is the most important thing for this so far, those people who planted it were also given a boost from the Ministry of Agriculture. The Municipal Council of the Municipality of Pakostane has made a unanimous decision to reconsider it and to sue the gentlemen for how they could have planted it, and now I'm curious about what will happen next, because I don't understand if on these things from a small man, from a small town, they're not going to take action, I don't think all these lists that we're talking about here today in terms of the general, I don't think they're going to give us results. I think we should do some on concrete things and concrete factors.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60666	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60667	Here is what my colleague says that I am misleading the public and that we have been on the Joint Parliamentary Committee of the Council of Europe and Croatia and that is correct and there is also true there has been no talk at all about corruption, there have been some other topics, the question of minorities and others. This topic has not been put on the agenda this time and it is precisely said that the screening for the judiciary is being postponed for technical reasons. That's right. But we've all been in politics for a long time, so we can understand diplomatic speech. I think you should understand that, on your own and you, the chairman of the board. But let's let the parliamentarians go now. You see what I was talking about, that's what Mr. Ollie Rehn told our Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, and Ivo Sanader didn't tell you what Olli Rehn told him, but he answered precisely because of the need to continue the fight and the persistent struggle, don't be alarmed, calm down. So if he wanted to do something on that plan, he answered with this paper, he'd better have done it in pieces and not paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60668	Replicate response, respected representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60669	And yet false and false. I didn't mention Mr. Rehn what and there I said what was in Dubrovnik. It has been said that the screening for Croatia has been delayed for technical reasons, and you want to politicise it as well. You're saying there's politics behind it. On the board of Mr. Racan when Mr. Drobnjak presented this information that the screening was delayed for the fall, Mr. Drobnjak was ridiculed by both the chairman and Mrs. Pusic and tried to convince the gentlemen that it was not because of the situation in the judiciary in Croatia but because of technical reasons. After a few days, a big headline came in the newspaper "Racan: Sanader Helps Corruption". It's a whole sequence of events that went and today this debate from you where the government's attack is going in that direction that wants to show the ruling structure with a hoarse corrupt, back to what was the first ten years. In 2000, we lost the election because people were like that. We are some other people now, and you will not succeed in showing HDZ the kind of person who lost the election, and that's what they would like and would like to show the prime minister that it helps corruption, it's just not true. I'm sorry, but you won't make it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60670	Honorable representative Dragica Zgrebec, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60671	Thank you, Mr. President. So a colleague in his opening section complains about why the programme itself is being discussed a little, and so are some examples and lies. Well, you've obviously heard the debate of fellow Hebrang, who spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club, and that's exactly how he opened the debate on this program. In particular, he said, we could retaliate 100 times with what you're saying, because for that we have evidence, and then he listed from housing to some 70 million kunas of health information, Excelsior, Sunny Hvar, etc. etc. If he said that on behalf of the HDZ Club and then he can ask the question, why do you people who know each other have evidence of corruption, you're not doing anything about crime in these two years that you're in power? The question can also be asked why you bring this three-year national anti-corruption programme from 2006 to 2008. So you lost 2 years of your term to start dealing with such a great evil that is ruling in Croatia. Obviously, that has not been your concern so far, and it is obvious that some incentives have come from some other side when it finally began to concern you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60672	Replicate response, respected representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60673	I agree with you for saying that this is how it started. I agree with that, and I'm sorry too. You asked why we lost for two years? In two years, we should have passed laws, regulations, prepared for a law like this to be passed. It took time. I also have a lot of things here that can indicate that they suspect corruption from the former government, but if I don't have to go with it, because we don't need to put our citizens in a position that they have to determine whether you or we are more corrupt. We're all from the same country, we're all from the same city, and we all want to solve corruption in Croatia. At least that's what I think.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60674	Dear Representative Slavko Linic, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60675	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Zubovic regrets that we are not talking about the basic document that is in front of us today, the programme. Now I'm asking the question. Is it possible that today the minister presents a basic document saying that what was brought in two years ago was just a letter on paper, and in the papers and documents sent out there are talking about the activities of the Croatian state, that a good part of it has been realised. It's said in basic documents. Does that mean we're lying to the world? Why don't we open a debate about this? Where it is possible for the 3rd year of Sanader's government's term of office to exist. Because it's an existing document until we adopt this one on Friday. It's an existing document. Why wasn't the government working on that document? Why aren't we talking about this today? You see, if the government were to say that she was working on that document then we'd be talking about punishing all those in the previous government who did the crime. About punishment because the government needs to be punished. You say as Parliamentarian, I have some papers. Why don't you deliver them to the state's attorney? His job is processing and persecuting. And that's what the citizens are asking of us, that's what Europe is asking of us. Please process, don't protect each other. Here's to processing. Today, the minister was to discuss the results of this procession. She didn't talk, she didn't talk, and if she had respected existing documents, she'd say something about it. And you see, that's our basic problem. We don't work on documents, and when we bring documents, we try to tell the world starts with us. There was nothing until 2004. It all starts with the government of Eve Sanader. This is what such documents can hardly withdraw to be together, they can hardly result in actions with which citizens will be satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60676	Replicate response, respected representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60677	Mr. Linic says the government should be punished. I don't know how the government, who is being punished by the government? How can the government punish? You would do this as a serious politician and you want to show yourself you can know that the government is not an institution that punishes. So, another thing you've been saying for two years, this government just passed a law like this. And you brought in 2002, and you lost two years after that. You forgot that. Well, they'd just like to attack us. Let's work on this document, and don't just attack the others. I can bring it to you and ask why "Croatia Insurance" lost the complete vehicles of the Croatian police and went to secure itself at Euroherc, and today the assistant minister, Mr Sobol, is today the director of Eurohertz. Answer, answer why complete vehicles from Croat Insurance went to Euroherc. Can you answer that? Thousands and thousands of vehicles from the Ministry of the Interior went to private security. Your fellow ministers recently said it wasn't true, that it wasn't possible. It's possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60678	Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60679	Thank you, Mr. President, and here's a very short look, so I will look back exclusively to... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60680	Replica, respected representative Milanka Opačić. I apologize to both ladies.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60681	Here's my colleague Zubovic here talking about how corruption drives foreign investors and how corruption is bad for the economy. Ma co-worker Zubovic, it's all expensive, but it's bad that, for example, your government with Bechtel went into direct settlement, so of course the government of Ivo Sanader. And I think that in some cases, in particular, Prime Minister Sanader was the one who made the decision to make certain things that way. For example, about "The Stone of Ingrad" he directly influenced the government to write off no less than 30 million kunas. What kind of message is that to the economy? That's how we found out about "Liburnia," only after Mr. Ostora said he paid 500 thousand kuna for the campaign. On the other hand, we find out that this same government headed by Ivo Sanader has made one decision in which Mr. Ostoja's settlement will get not 500 thousand kuna but 700 million kuna. Now, the question to me is, how much did he actually pay HDZ? Is it 500 thousand kuna or a lot more than that. A bad message is quite certain when going to a direct contract of work to build a blind exit from the highway to the birthplace of Mr. Sanader, for 62 million kuna. No contests, no bad messages to the economy. It's a bribe, it's corruption, and it's a bad message to the economy, and that's what we should talk about today.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60682	Replicate response, respected representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60683	Here, incorrect again. I say it is not his birthplace, so you misjudged the Croatian public. For "The Stone of Ingrad," I think "The Stone of Ingrad" has begun, am I going to answer you or won't you listen?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60684	Come on, talk to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60685	I don't have to, I can keep my mouth shut. I can't keep my mouth shut, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60686	So you have a replica... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60687	The Stone Ingrad didn't start working on 23.11.2003, but it worked during your government, and what did you do? Nothing. He worked illegally, worked losses, worked debts, hired a lot of people who depended on him, and what could Sanader do? You've led him to... And don't laugh now, and that's not funny. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Don't laugh now. During your government, you should have arranged it, arranged it to work as it does, but it can't be arranged after 45 years of communism in 5 minutes, it doesn't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60688	Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60689	Thank you, Mr. President. And all that I heard today, so these individual examples that are trying to eat today's government, and thus our entire party, the Croatian Democratic Community for bribery, corruption and all that results from this, have strengthened me in that this proposal of the National Anti-Corruption Programme should be voted this week and should not be left with a dead letter on paper but should be immediately and systematically broken into practice. So, all that comes out of what is the phenomenon of corruption because this problem is so complex, so comprehensive that there are no definitions, so neither in our law nor in international law but all that we're talking about is about more areas, so not only corruption but also abuse of power and conflict of interest and nepotism and the avoidance of the Public Procurement Act and a series of things that are still impossible to put these areas in the first place. Unlike the car, which is how I paint it, it should bring the former government from one goal to another, so reduce corruption, or the Finns would laugh at this statement that there is no corruption in Finland. There is, it is only in a very small proportion, and in Croatia corruption is therefore much more than it should be, but much less than public perception because through the media and through repeated repetition of the fact that all of Croatia and in all areas of corruption created this picture that corruption is ruling Croatia which is not true. So the difference between people's opinions and real experiences is that people are in great disrepancy, so people's experiences, so field research should say how much corruption there is in Croatia or not because when we are and... transparents internationally asked how they come to know how much corruption there is in Croatia then I have very little direct research on the ground than on the basis of a call that someone is making today's guides a picture of how much corruption there is in Croatia or not, and only if we go through one law of large numbers in the judiciary, here's an example, so in each court dispute you have two parties, the verdict always stands in favour of one party. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That party that hasn't received judgment in its favor always feels damaged, regardless... The law or not can be reported somewhere, so he misjudged as long as it's proved to be left with one image of corruption. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I'm saying that corruption is dangerous, that it has it, but it's not that much and it's not in every area. In addition, what we are constantly saying, from a socialist system, we have moved into a modern society where you have a series of activities that did not exist in the former system, so you have lobbying, you have lobbyists, you have new services in intermediation, so you need to determine what in some case is abuse, and what is normal doing legal work for a particular commission, I'm not talking about what solves the Law of Conflict of Interest... State administration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] People, the public who is watching or not looking at us, I don't know who's looking at us doesn't care who did what because the judicial authorities need to sanction any activity at the expense of positive regulations, whether they're moral or moral, but they're interested in getting to those rights that they're legally guaranteed to exercise their rights as quickly as possible and at no extra cost. They are now children in education, so I am happy that excellence wins, so what I said yesterday on the board has no bribes and corruption in excellent students because they are already seen by foreign companies in college, so they are already called to themselves, so mediocrity requires both corruption and that we should think about strengthening excellence and all I see from this proposal of the National Programme other than direct activity is creating a positive climate of social where we will all become more sensitive to all the phenomena of corruption and all the evils that arise, so it is impossible to comment on one party from which situation in society we say alarmingly. So, we can't blame anyone but it would be logical for all of us, by consensus, to first declare this law, and then we accept this job together in every place where anyone is to bring this corruption down to Croatia in those frameworks that are tolerable because, of course, the ideal society that there will never be. And I'm not going to tell you why the government ex-government waited for a year and a half and ended up with a mandate, and if I didn't say the finger went off and she was sitting in a larry car, and now that this government is the same car to come from one place to another, she put it in the fifth place instead of being happy to be driving fast towards the goal of curbing corruption, they're unhappy, shocked because that fifth speed is probably too fast for what was called tapping in the place. So, the government has fulfilled certain assumptions already through HITRO HR, through grantovnica, through all the other things that are available on the Internet and very visible and can now go with concrete examples and with concrete repression to say so, but although I believe much more in prevention, I expect this preventive action from this programme, and I expect in some way to reduce hunting opportunities in a blurry way, to call it that, because when the debate was on the Public Procurement Act, we also said how much it is always possible to enforce it in the context of existing laws in one way or another. So, I support this government and in this programme, and I hope that a number of good things and positive effects from foreign investments will come from this programme, so also in all those areas that are listed here, that after this week, we will start to implement that strategy in life. And I'm not going to talk about the examples now because I was looking at an eclectic example of Mrs. Balenović's sad story on TV two days ago. So, here's only if we remember this problem and so to say "Scylla and Haribde" and the person who pointed to irregularities then we come to what anyone could and what anyone wanted and what they did but there's no end to it. So, let's not say to each other the worst things, let's all do business together, and then the citizens will be happy and they'll volunteer everyone not according to what they're doing but to what they're doing. This government has done a lot in two half years, and by the end of the term, it will do a lot more, and I hope it will get its chance to move on again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60690	Thank you. There's replicas, eight MPs and a representative. I will read them in order, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, Nenad Stazić, Dragica Zgrebec, Marin Jurjevic, Gordana Sobol, Miroslav Korenika, Milanka Opačić, Slavko Linić and Pero Kovacevic. Now we interrupt the session. Resume at 3:00. After these replicas, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic is in line. ... Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. [[Home not recorded]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60692	.... /The speech room is subsequently included....respected colleague that in the last year and a half and two years, a lot has been done. It is true that a lot has been done and that is what has been done terribly that Croatia is situated between Le Sot and Burke's Faso. That's where she's stationed. Furthermore, you say that citizens have a sense of corruption more than they do, perceptions of corruption than corruption really is, it is. But that's not the case. Here's one of the three most important problems that our citizens suffer from all research. So, with a low standard, unemployment, corruption is considered the most important problem in this country that they, on a daily basis, feel on their own backs and in their lives that there is almost nothing they can do without it. Not to hire kids, not to go to college, and so on. But you obviously run away from these objective and relevant indicators even though here in one show the citizens voted and claimed that almost 70% is this government more corrupt than the former. The Prime Minister said that. He didn't admit it because he said it, but you know how? "I didn't watch that show." So what he didn't see and what you didn't admit didn't happen. But TV Nova went on to comment nicely. Sanader was probably watching Housewives at the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60693	Reply to the replica respected representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60694	It's a good thing our time is limited. You usually talk a lot, but I didn't realize what you were actually going to say? And if that wasn't the case, we couldn't say either of you or me, but that's what objective research says that's so that perception is one thing, and it's really the state of another. I'll repeat what I said if you didn't listen well. That there is more corruption in Croatia than there should be, but there is much less to it than it would seem, by some kind of research. And Croatia is located right where it is supposed to be and I will not say that with Burke's Faso, the modern European countries, according to all the findings and lists and the World Bank and all the other relevant institutions, therefore, and as a candidate for the European Union, it is certainly not as bad as you would like to show it, but it is much better than it seems to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60695	Second replica, respected representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60696	Thank you very much. This is a very interesting colleague of yours. That corruption is less than a picture of it in public. So the public has no right. They don't have the right of citizens. It's their fault that they think this government is more corrupt. That's unusually interesting, and now you're still saying, "We can't blame anyone." How can we not blame anyone? We can and we have to blame someone. You know who. Well, you know who's to blame for increasing corruption in one country. It's the Croatian government. Well, it's not the Belgian government's fault, is it? And now be careful. If the biggest corruption in Chad and Bangladesh is who do you think is to blame? The government of Chad or Bangladesh or someone third? Look at that, this relativation of yours isn't gonna help. It just doesn't help. Citizens think this government is corrupt because it's corrupt. And there's no shouting, yelling at citizens that citizens are stupid, that they don't know what they think will unfortunately help.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60697	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60698	Dear fellow Staziæ, neither you represent all Croatian citizens nor I do so. You represent a certain part, me too. So the citizens of Croatia are not looking for your picture of the reality of the curved mirror but are looking for objective reality and I am trying to objectively objectify this reality. Nor did I say that corruption is gone, nor did I say that everything is corruption. So I claim that between what you want to tell me and the real truth my truth is closer to the real state than yours, a lot. And besides that, the citizens have been deleted through the media because they often pass on your opinions more often than Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec, even if it was a problem, and at least how cleverly I spoke because it's of course more interesting to tell people that the dog, right, is that the man bit the dog than the dog. Well, in that sense, I'm sure you know how to cause media attention much better than I do, but I'm saying I'm better at facts than you are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60699	Dear Representative Zgrebec. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60700	She says Croatian citizens have the wrong picture of corruption and that the Croatian government says it solves problems in the fifth gear. So I will try to say that in the fifth speed, problems in Croatia are solved, as the government does. Thus, at the fifth speed of a closed session of the Government, they make a decision to write off 35 million kunas to "The Stone of Ingrad" to be paid into the State budget, while at the same time we are making a law that will rob public notes of property to citizens, even if it was a debt of 100 kuna. Thus, at the fifth speed, it proposes, and the same speed as the Parliament's majority has voted for two years in a row with the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, which allows for the postponement of payment of commitments to the state budget and has not been reported by the Parliament for two years, despite the legal obligation. I've asked several times to get a report like that. So at the fifth speed, the government adopted a proposal and the parliamentary majority passed the Law on VAT reduction and then pulled it at the speed of light within a year. So at the same speed, she sold not only Proming, Promal, but even three-year, three-year transport of goods in order to pull back even more quickly, to break the contract and damage several dozen million kunas of the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60701	Reply to the replica respected representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60702	I already thought you were a little tired of getting away with just one example and one of those negative ones that you think should be blacking out the government in total. But now I'm going to say about that closed session, too. It wasn't just "The Stone Ingrad" on the wallpaper, but all the other companies between it and him were well known to the public. [[Intruder: Gentlemen!]] I don't see that you who point more at it could add up, but what the government did well in the fifth gear, of course you didn't want to count a single thing. And about how much the government has worked and how macroeconomic indicators have said that it is more production and what Croatia needs. So production based on our agricultural production. That there are more throats in the tou, that there are larger exports, that there is greater coverage of imports by export. That he's a bigger number of employees. So these are all macroeconomic indicators that you can't make different because the data is exact. The figures are ruthless, and the picture of these figures is the one you would like to put in the head of the Croatian public, but fortunately, the Croatian man is smart and well knows what is true, and what is an attempt to impose on him the opinion that he got rid of in 2003. So they've told you nicely what they think of your opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60703	Next replica, respected representative Marin Jurjevic. I'm asking you about these proverbs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60704	Nicely said by her colleague that the Croatian man is smart, but it does not agree with what you said earlier, and I think it is not good to disrespect the common sense and personal experience of Croatian citizens who are smart in your opinion, but are not smart when they claim that corruption is the biggest problem in Croatia and that you know we have now reached the judges. On that ranking list, the judges would be first, so immediately politicians. Here's the last thing we've been through. So their perception of us politicians is like the most corrupt part of the Croatian Corps, with me agreeing with them that political corruption is the mother of all corruption. If politicians are corrupt then everyone else will be corrupt, especially in a corrupt society attached to them. You mention getting into gears, etc. in which the car was sitting which the Government, which was moving at speed, and I can only say that the former government was sitting in an old rolling stock that it inherited from the previous government, and that the new government is sitting in a new rolling stock very expensive with prestigious brands, BMWs, etc. So it's true and the citizens experience us like that. Now to claim that citizens are wrong and that they do not know how they feel is like when a hungry child comes to you saying to your mother: “Mother, I would eat something!“And she said, ‘Come on, you are not hungry!’ It will not make him hungry, but the children will say, ‘And look what kind of mother I have!’
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60705	Give the baby to the mother. Reply to the replica respected representative Ivana Sučec Trakoštanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60706	I don't know just fellow Jurjevic you finally admitted to paying so much money for such bad cars. So, under that money you were out for the former fleet, you were supposed to be driving in much better cars, and that's where we were hunting you. So you paid too much for bad cars. Second. You're saying "we politicians" so the politicians you belong to, you politicians are, but I belong to, and I'm not. No one has ever told me I'm corrupt, that Ivana is a Success-Tracostan and a group that I belong to is something bad. So when it does, I'll agree with you and everything I've said is very consistent and on the trail of one single. So it's not easy for Croatian people and no one here, but we're moving from this difficult state to the better. We have resisted all our strengths which we expect, of course, for all of you to get your positives out, not just negatively, and for us to all be even better together when the mandate is over that we all go home together with a job well done, and you and I should say so. Thank you, Mr. Jurovic, for expecting us to work together on this strategic plan to implement anti-corruption measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60707	Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60708	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. Well, here's the thing, since you've been playing in your car exposure a little bit with the speed of the car, so who's in the larry, who's in the fifth gear and what's done in the larus or fifth gear. I have to say that something is not clear to me now because, in those years and a half since the last programme for the control of corruption was passed, the Government has passed, and in this Lehr has also passed the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests and the Law on the Right to Access to Information and the Law on Criminal Responsibility of Legal Persons, the Law on the Protection of Personal Data on Public Procurement, the Law on the Protection of Witnesses, the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering. The Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering was established at the Ministry of Finance. The law on the repression of corruption and organised crime formed USKOK, etc. etc., and so all in that sort of lere for a year and a half. And you say you put it in the fifth gear, and then two and a half years is actually that car I don't know when it was in fifth gear. It stood in place because these laws were obviously not implemented, nor was there a political will for them to be implemented or that other measures and activities could possibly be taken that would help to speed up the process of curbing corruption. In those two and a half years, what this government has done is it has adopted amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act, which makes it possible to benefit, or without public procurement tenders. Then, government regulations have been passed which without criteria allow the government to extend the repayment of debt to the state, the executive law has been passed which and when we have said, and it is clear that it affects the most impoverished citizens. The Law on the Court Register was passed where two companies, say Zec, registered two daughters under the law overnight, and you are also asking to reach a consensus on a law in which they say that only in June 2007 will the planning and implementation processes of the State budget be improved. We still have a year and a half to wait.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60709	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica respected representative Ivana Sučec Trakoštanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60710	Do you know what it leads to when you bring a man to a machine that needs to be done, and you don't give him instructions on how to handle that machine, so he can't run that machine. It leads to two situations. Or until a man tries it and can't go crazy or give up and nothing happens. And that's exactly what happened to you. So, you have brought the National Programme on the fight against corruption, but you have not appointed a commission or fulfilled the framework. You gave your shoulder, and you didn't allow that machine to work. Therefore, in a bunch of such laws you have passed them. You didn't do anything by them, and it drove people crazy. Here, people simply do not tolerate such a situation that they can do something, but they are not allowed through regulations, through implementing regulations, or by acting through the bodies of the state administration and the ministry to bring it to life. It was a mistake we're not gonna make again. So, very specifically, we operationally pass laws, regulations, implementation programmes and through the bodies of the state administration we implement them and the citizens do it. You can see they're satisfied with the changes we've made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60711	Dear Representative Miroslav Korenik, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60712	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well colleague Sučec Trakoštanec I can only ask you myself and you have been 27 months since this government took responsibility for the management of Croatia and why it did not propose to the Croatian Parliament to appoint this commission. If you're already talking and you say that the government has met the precondition to go into this fight against corruption, I'm telling you that it's fulfilled a small part because if you're talking about a garter no matter how big it is, look for some catastrian municipalities as many as you have in electronic form that you can access the data in garneries. It's a story, a makeup that still doesn't work. When we talk about HITRO-HR, there were questions here how it was that those who had ruined certain companies overnight formed despite the HITRO-HR and the greater possible overnight control set up new companies even though they should be banned from doing business. And while you're already talking and saying that this government put in the fifth gear, it seems that as far as corruption is concerned, it's only in the fifth gear of a car that doesn't have a motorcycle, but it's got those little children's pedals, so when we get there.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60713	Replica reply, respected representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60714	I honestly and myself wonder that in just 20 months this government has managed to do so many new things, to run Croatia in all these areas that you have listed, I do not have to do them fortunately. And if I'd guessed the right thing, it says exactly eight replicas to my exposure, so I touched what hurts you all together. And I think I got it right. And would anyone be so stupid as to say that this law that you yourself thought was bad is going to be implemented. So the government realized that your law wasn't right for you, and let alone for us. So now we've proposed a new one. Just the two of us. If it hadn't been consumed, they wouldn't be discussing the area in general today. Or national strategy, I apologize for the proposal of the National Corruption Prevention Programme in 2000, 2006 and 2008. But there's also the law that this applies to, and I'm grateful to all eight of you for giving me the chance to have another exposure, because what I did in 10 minutes was really small. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60715	Dear Representative Slavko Linic, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60716	I'm not going to agree with my colleague who says the situation in the body of corruption is still better than the citizens think. We're not even opening the issue of organised crime today, because if we opened it we'd probably scare the citizens. You also mentioned court rulings. And do you know that in a court verdict, a disgruntled party shot a lawyer's knee, beat up the president of the administration, and the wife got an obituary of children. We all know that, the bearers of power. The citizens don't know that. It's called organized crime. At the same time, we have a president of the High Court of Commerce who is partly guilty, an ex, who says no organised crime matters. And you're sending in a better condition today. No, he says banking crime is bigger. At the same time, the State Judiciary Council does not launch and does not approve of strict procedures, I would say the launch of criminal persecution because it does not remove his immunity. No one's commenting on it, not us, not the Prime Minister. This situation is far more tragic, because we don't open a story about organised crime. And he's the one who runs all the corruption. And indeed, the situation is far more tragic. And it's better if the citizens aren't aware of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60717	The reply to the replica, respected Ivana Sučec-Trakostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60718	The story of organised crime, i.e. the fight against organised crime, has been opened by the Croatian police and the results have been recorded. So, we all know that there are, of course, good shifts here, that partly chains and drug dealers and those who were dealing with car trafficking and theft have been discovered, certain routes that went through Croatia have been broken, and that's the same thing everyone knows, what could have been put in public. What is now being done as an operational processing will be the same as the result of some of the prosecutions known to the public when they are convicted. And this statement, colleague Linic, made you vice president of the former government, that one judge was partly guilty. Well, he's either guilty or not guilty. So if we're talking about a judge's guilt in general, I don't know who's to prove it, so and again another judge, is it supposed to be a case of likely prosecution, then he's either guilty or not guilty? No one can be eliminated because he's partly guilty. Because I think he did well in my own way or not. So judges are also undermining the same as all other citizens of civil responsibility, not to say they have much greater, because they are part of an independent state body, and there I see no obstacle to any judge being prosecuted for what doesn't do good. And I would no longer be involved in anyone's insinuation saying that this government has any will to protect any crime, especially when we are organised in all international organisations, when we have achieved results in collaboration with Interpol and with all other services and when here we are now discussing the reorganisation of national, intelligence services that protect national security where and where it has been again under observation, where it will be even more effective and services. So this government and through the organization concrete goes into... the efficiency of all those involved in the protection of justice, justice and national security. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60719	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60720	Dear Mr. President, it's been nice listening to a colleague of mine say the government is ready to go into the fight against corruption. I didn't see that last week when we gave the law, supplementing the law of revision and conversion and privatisation where it could go immediately. And Mr. Letica said nicely that England also has a State Agency to confiscate illegally acquired property. So that's why I'm going to repeat that bill six months later. And as for Vesna Balenović, you said that nicely. But this same government has twice rejected my proposal to Mr. Toncio Tadic, namely the HSP club, to pass the Protection Act... It means that those who report corruption have protection. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So now we're going to test the government and this readiness of its two projects that we're submitting today on... And this one about reviewing, converting and privatizing, we'll take it again. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it will be a concrete answer to us and Croatian citizens that it is indeed so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60721	Reply to the replica respected representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60722	Be assured that the Government in the systematic resolution of these problems through the diversity of laws and through proposals that will be made very quickly by the Croatian Parliament has seen, located and proposed solutions to this problem. So in any case today, people who discover certain things, and they don't want to be, so they have the status of a protected witness, which we have built into the laws. And I don't think there's any obstacle to the government doing exactly what you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60723	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60724	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Minister. So if a man follows Parliament meetings from 2000 to today, reads the newspaper, the impression is that Croatia has caught a strategy, programme, planomania. Whenever any problem arises and the former government has gone along with it and this government is also acting immediately either a strategy or a programme or a plan is being adopted, and then the public is being told that we are responding, we are solving this problem immediately. And then what happens? It happens that even that authority that brought that strategy, that programme, that plan, doesn't implement it. There comes a new government that is also acting the same way, not implementing this strategy, this programme, but it is doing its strategy, its programme, its plan. And then they always do it around, in the second half of their term. So either they're just doing it, then they're moving on to new power again. And if we do so further, it will happen that we will have to adopt a strategy to implement all the strategies we have adopted so far. The programme for the implementation of all the programmes we have adopted so far, i.e. a plan for the implementation of all the plans we have made so far. Namely, it all comes down to the strategy, so then it goes or the program. The former government on corruption had a strategy, this one has a program. Then you're doing an action program, and then you're running an executive program, and then you're going into surgery and you're gonna end up with one big nothing. End one big nothing and all that is common to all these strategies, programmes and plans is that both one and the other authorities end up in nothing, brought, remains a dead letter on paper. Therefore, this is the biggest problem, and if we want to discuss how it all comes out, I think we need to agree that all strategies, programmes and plans are made by consensus, what our colleague Letica was saying in the sense that we first create this political will. We had a chance last week to create this political will on the matter of the conversion and privatisation of the confiscation of everything that was illegally acquired, and we know for ourselves that 95.17% according to the State Audit Office report were made so. We've seen it happen. Jakovčića case, there's no Kanin here, we've seen it can be done legally. So let's create this will. Let's do what we brought in to spend. You know what the best strategy is? The one who's having a good time. The best program is the one being implemented and the best plan is the one being implemented. We have a lot of strategies, programs and plans, and they're in common not to be implemented, so they represent one big nothing, or we deceive ourselves and the public as if we're doing something in a particular area and it goes from day to day. What's the answer to all this? So after conversion and privatisation, the biggest cancer of the early modern new Croatian state is corruption. The answer is very simple. The Croatian Parliament must pass laws that will be enforceable. We ourselves need to be aware that sometimes in a hurry when we pass laws by emergency procedure we allow just doing corruption, we are just making it possible to do corruption because at a small door it is the simplest thing to do. Next, we need to have a state administration that will enforce these laws and judicial powers, the state's attorney's office and courts that will immediately sanction all these things that are not being implemented and that's the right answer to how to fight corruption, against everything that we're talking about today. If we are not prepared to do so in this part, then this debate will remain at that level, the programme will be adopted and in four or five months this programme will be forgotten at all as we say was the justification that the conclusions of what we have proposed under the law have been made. We know for ourselves that these conclusions don't go through at all, because let's say three months have passed, we have no privatisation laws, we have nothing that was decided to be. And so this looks like the same thing that my colleague Kramarić and I talked about this morning about one of Brecht's smart statements, says when bank robbers justify starting a new bank. That's the variant. So bank robbers are just saying they're gonna start a new bank. And we don't start a bank here, and the bank is unity. This unity between us to finally say let's make order let the rule of law work. So the problem is too much, and I don't think there's any point in breaking up what the former has done, what this government has done, whether it was good, means a sign of equality between all these strategies, programmes and plans of the former and current government is one thing, a dead letter on paper without political and without any other will to bring it back to life and that it is actually being implemented. If we conclude that part today, then it will be the most important part to really get into that whole part, and we must again make sure that we can't come in here and bring all the laws into an emergency procedure, because if we make such laws, then those who want to create a fertile soil for corruption simply make it. We only had a case at the last session, and the question of the Bookbooks Act, we went to the publishers again. It has been promised to go to the benefit of students, children, for the benefit of parents, in the end we have done what we are fighting against today. Again, the possibility around the textbook is that every year parents will buy one book for one child, for another book, even though the difference is only a year. So we can also discuss from this point of view how we are talking about some other points that are returning to this part of corruption and conversion and privatisation. Therefore, this should be our conclusion, and then they would probably send a good message to Croatian citizens and the Croatian public, meaning the establishment of a rule of law, the establishment of a rule of law and the spotting sanctioning of violations of the law, means that the state administration must carry out both the judicial authorities. Here's the shortest answer and the simplest answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60725	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60726	Well, my colleague Kovacevic, you incorrectly said that the National Anti-Corruption Programme with an action plan, which was adopted in 2002, is a dead letter on paper. It's not a dead letter on paper because on the basis of such an action plan, it's been passed 28 hundred laws that ratify it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60727	Replica, a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60728	Here's a colleague you've claimed that no other strategy will come true, because it hasn't even come true in the past. Here's the confession of this government to the former government, but also to the international institutions, it's a shame to say it in the house. So he literally says like this, he answers the questionnaire. In April 2001, Croatia adopted the National Anti-Corruption Programme together with the Action Plan, most of the measures envisaged by the National Anti-Corruption Strategy have already been implemented. But I agree with you, which is astounding that by ruling and not knowing what laws have been passed and they have to implement them. Because right now, they're responding to the questionnaire, and they haven't written a single word of what they've done in two years. It's all done by 2003. Here are your papers. Says colleague Zgrebec with 28 laws. Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, on access to information, on the liability of legal persons, on the protection of personal data, on public procurement, on public procurement, on the signed UN Convention on Transnational Crime with two protocols, amended the Criminal Law on this trail, the Law on the Protection of Witnesses, amending the Law on Criminal Procedure, which enables the implementation of these criminal offences, the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering, the established Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering in the Ministry of Finance, the founding of the USKOK, the ratified Criminal Convention and the Additional Protocols, a ratified civil law convention, the amended Labour Act aimed at protecting against.......................................................................................................................................................................................... whistles. Croatia has finally entered the Council of Europe's Committee for the Task Force to finance anti-money laundering activities, allow for operational change of experience through SPAs, through POP and PAKO, and then a national programme for the control of corruption with the action plan was finally adopted. But these laws need to be implemented. It is regrettable, however, that during this government, four laws legalizing corruption have been amended, according to fellow Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60729	Replica response, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60730	Dear Mr. President, the distinguished colleague did not seem to listen well to me. I said the best strategy is the one being implemented, the best program is the one being implemented, the best plan is the one being implemented, the best law is the one being implemented. We can pass 30 laws if we don't implement it all remains a dead letter on paper. And the biggest problem is that each government is doing its own strategy even though the old strategy is in effect. In the reports everything is great and wonderful, and in fact the situation is getting worse and worse. That's what I was talking about. So there has to be political will, we have to pass laws that will be enforceable, we have to have a state administration that will apply that and a judicial authority that's spotlessly sanctioning it. It's the only answer, which means establishing the rule of law. And this shooting, the case, was best told to you by Mr. Letica in the morning, we had one former minister who reported the 99th to 30 grand in profits and came on a bicycle to that government of his, and eventually reported a profit of 35 million kuna. Here, and that program is now yours strategically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60731	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Marijan Mlinarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60732	Dear Mr. President, dear colleague. You said there was one big nothing behind these national strategies, etc. However, unlike the previous government, the government had the courage to suspect certain political corruption to repeat the elections in 2 counties and several cities and municipalities. So that's why I'm saying that this government is also trying to fight corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60733	Replica response, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60734	We must learn in Croatia when one government inherits another power that has won in the elections that the laws, strategies, programmes that are in force must be implemented. It's the worst thing not to be here. If you want to change then change, and don't wait two and a half years and then say this is no good. But it was in force, it was an obligation to apply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60735	Third replica, the esteemed representative of Zeljko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60736	Dear President, it is an impression that wherever at local level someone is in power to rule corruption regardless of party membership. Which I think is true in the vast majority of cases and what it is, who's to blame. So my replica to Mr Kovacevic that it is our fault most here that we allow it, that we do not do anything to change this law, and normally the current government is most involved in this because it should adopt positive laws and help both the Government and the Government break this practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60737	Replica response, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60738	The best answer, dear colleague, will be that the Croatian citizen expects what is guaranteed, illegally acquired to be taken away as is taken away in all modern states. I'm saying, Letica said nicely, England also has a state agency to take away something illegally acquired, so let's do it. We've seen in the James case that it's possible, and then it's possible in all these cases that we've been talking about. That'll be the right answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60739	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60740	Thank you very much. When we talk about corruption in a country, we talk about the government of that country. If corruption increases in a country, it means that the government in that country is not good. If corruption in the country decreases, it means that the government is doing well, that it is a good government. As I already said in the replica, if Chad is the most corrupt country in the world, then it's the government of Chad. We're not going to blame Prime Minister Sanader for Chad being in the last place of corruption. But we will ask him why Croatia has made its rating worse. When corruption increases in a country, it can only mean two. You know who's to blame. Government. But that could mean two, either the government's incapable of fighting corruption or it's corrupt itself. I leave it to the government and the government's representatives to answer that question. The question will certainly be answered by citizens. Now, what do the citizens think? Citizens were tested, citizens were asked, and what do the citizens think? Citizens think like this. That the prime minister, government and ministers in 2003 were 52% of citizens thought they were corrupt. And in 2005, 63% think so. That's an 11% increase. Then when asked about President of the Parliament in 2003, 27% thought it was corrupt and 47% in 2005. 20% higher. You see, and for the previous president of the Parliament, an investigative commission was established and was established in this investigative committee that he did not favor the company in which he owned it. But in that same Parliament, it was not intended to form a committee for Prime Minister Sanader. She didn't want most of it, so it wasn't even established, and we see what the citizens think of Prime Minister Sanader. That the Prime Minister was corrupt in 2003, 26% of the citizens thought, and now he thinks 43% of the citizens. They're 17% higher. It can now be said that this has nothing to do with citizens being mistaken, that the situation is different from the way citizens see it, but this is the data of Transparency International. This research was not conducted by Nenad Stazic, this was not conducted by any party. This was conducted by an international institution. And what we can read from that data now. We can read that so people, brother, don't believe you. They just don't believe you. You can write these plans of yours, your strategies, whatever you want. You can say whatever you want, but people just think you're corrupt. And that's what they said loud and clear in this interview. When asked, these same citizens, who is to blame for increasing corruption because increasing corruption does not make sense to disprove. Croatia was 51st in 2001, now 70th. You didn't write that in the analysis here. You're keeping a low profile that doesn't suit you. You didn't even bring this up from Transparency International. Well, you could have done the same thing, these statistics, these indicators. When citizens are asked who is responsible for increasing corruption, citizens say so. In the first place, the legacy of HDZ's government. That is the first reason in this country to increase corruption. And watch out, in 2003, 47% of them thought that the legacy of HDZ was the authority, and that's when it came first. But 47% of them. In 2005, that's what 57% of citizens think. 10% higher. Now, you can bagatelize this data, you can say that they don't mean anything, you can say that, as Mrs. Trakostane, that citizens are stupid, that they have no idea what they're saying. You can, you can, however you want, but it won't fix this data or change it. This program that's written here is very well written. There's nothing to say, there's all these beautiful sentences, it's like Stalin's constitution. It's beautiful. But he has nothing to do with reality. Reality is one thing, and this program of yours is talking about something quite 15. Here's why. On page 4, you are wonderfully saying that citizens' trust in local and state government needs to be restored to their goals. Well, of course you should, of course you should. But how will you restore the trust of the citizens in local and executive power when the government in a number of local self-government units is achieved by purchasing mandates? And now they're councilmen, they're the most common corrupt of our fellow citizens, and you'd like to regain your trust. So how? Well, you can't buy councilmen on the one hand, and on the other hand write in the strategy that you'll regain trust, or you've also written corrupts to single out and sanction. Okay, great, I don't mind, that's great, so everybody will agree, of course you should, so come on, who's defending you. If Darko Ostova acknowledges that with 500 thousand kuna, the HDZ has been financed by some government that says it is necessary to single out and sanction corrupt HDZ sanctioners. So how did he agree to have Darko Osto give him 500 thousand kuna, and he's paying Darko Osto back some service full of money? So sanction HDZ, and then we'll trust you. You say here in the strategy it is necessary to reduce the country's ability to limit freedom of competition through discretionary decisions. Oh, great, just where do you hide the rabbit? What forest do you hide the rabbit in? When you forgave him 30 million kuna and it was Prime Minister Sanader directly by his decision against the will of the ministers and how then now, he says it is necessary to reduce the country's ability to discretionary decisions. So cut it down to Prime Minister Sanader, so he made that discretionary decision. So who else brought it. Well, we all know that. It says in the transcript who brought it. So then it is necessary to ban and sanction every post-election attempt of human change motivated by political rematch. Great. What about the hospital directors? What do we do with them? So you replaced them because of political rematchism, among other things, and the one you received, in Great Britain has become your only member of the Royal Surgical Society, the only Croat since that Royal Society exists. You dumped him, you got Kujundzic, and watch out, and you could say the same about Kujundzic because you wrote somewhere that you needed papers on higher education institutions must be said objective and transparent. Well, they have to, but this Kujundzic, this same Kujundzic, enrolled his son in the University of Rijeka untransparently. It says jobs in which the state is a partner of public procurement, award of concessions, and others must be subject to strict rules. Well, that's right, but the privatization of the sunny Hvar, Bechtel,... Juroslav Buljubasic, Šimacu,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] , MORH trucks, Liburnia, Tele2, store... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What about it? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And how is that okay with this? How? No way, gentlemen. So will the government fight corruption? Who's defending the government? We all encourage the government to fight corruption, but tomorrow, it's a day for the government's session, disband the representative bodies of the local self-government units where the government is achieved by purchasing the mandate. You can make that a government decision. Secondly, annul the government's decision to insist on the prime minister's "stone Ingrad" and "Zeca" for forgiveness, then you will be trusted. Third, cancel the Sam Marina concession for the Split-Supetar ferry line because it is a corrupt concession, it is given to achieve an unselected, illegal government in Split, everyone knows that, so not only the Splits know that, the whole country knows that. Then when you do, you can be trusted. Then you can say about this government that this government wants to fight corruption. Listen, that's where you get and lose power. The SDP lost most power because it wasn't determined enough to deal with the corruption it found, which all of your tycoons didn't go to jail, but you've already lost power for corruption once, you'll lose it again.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60741	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. First respected representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60742	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Representative Stazic mentioned 9 times and said the following words: "this government is corrupt". Of course, that claim is ultimately incorrect because this government is doing everything, including this programme that we are discussing today, proposing systematic measures to prevent corruption both in the judiciary and in the health care sector and in the local administration and in the state administration, but what I would like to finally say to Mr. Stazic on the persistent application of Goebbels' methods. He claims a lie to countless times until you start believing yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60743	All right, let's leave the compliments for later. Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang, correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60744	A dear colleague has presented such a series of incorrect allegations that I will arrive only a small portion. He quoted a survey that said HDZ is public perception of the start of corruption. We conducted a survey where 99.9% of respondents, so I'm correcting his exact allegations, said SDP is the concept of corruption, so we have such surveys. It is incorrect that we have replaced the director who became a member of the London Royal Society. We replaced the director who, according to the State Audit, purchased goods for a few dozen million kunas in the opposite of the Public Procurement Act. It is not true that we are corrupt in the Stone Ingrad case, because the first pardon of the fine was received during the government of Prime Minister Racan, from your inspectorate in your composition. And in the end, all of this you've added up to us is just a drop in the sea according to a 750 million-dollar scam you've cheated on the state in a corruption affair called Pliva.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60745	Third correction, honourable representative Marijan Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60746	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear colleague Stazic, you also mentioned as a sign of a certain corruption and the replacement of the director, here's lucky fellow Hebrang said the reason for the Director's shift. In your term of office, you have removed all those from the police who have also sympathised HDZ, not only members of HDZ. At the same time, you received 200 people without medical confirmation without a competition. So what are we talking about? There's no way this is corruption, this way and this behavior is corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60747	Now we have six replicas. First, respected representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60748	I'm actually envious of a fellow Trazic who brings down the whole reality to logic you're nothing to me and we're angels. However, survey research, I'm here for something at home, saying different things. This morning I talked about the bias of using insight into corrupt problems in Croatia, relying only on international transparency and not on other more serious research such as World Bank research. When it comes to the capture of the state, I'll repeat. In Croatia, the most important are the state's most captured party finances in the first place, in the second Office of the President of the Republic, at the third Commercial Court, in the fourth Criminal Court, is parliamentary legislation. Such is the hierarchy of capture of the state. As far as the Office of the President of the Republic is concerned, one of the members for his election list, Mr Krasniqi, was liquidated the other day. Here, I have an article from 2001 that shows and it's a real shame that the President of the Republic didn't make the entire election list, then we'd see, Mr. Krasniqi was supposed to be fifth in that election list, and there are such beads from 1st to 50th place a lot.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60749	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60750	Well, I admire you colleagues for replicating something I haven't said at all. I wasn't talking about the capture of the state, nor was I talking about the President's office, and neither were you. I have a very clear idea that corruption in one country is a responsibility borne by the government of that country and cannot be apologized for any other circumstances. If the indicators of an independent finding that corruption has increased in a country, then it is the government's fault and they do not blame different statistical methods and research nor can they be guilty, nor can I be guilty of any different quotes of different sources of capture of the state, of the President of the Republic because it is not an indicator. It's simply not an indication of what we're talking about here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60751	Next replica, the respected representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60752	No matter how much the esteemed fellow Stazic tries to free himself... but unfortunately it dominates and seems to me, it is dangerous because it is really consciously done to bibliarise the Croatian political scene. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There really is one of them for me. Now my colleague Stazic will talk about Rabbit, talk to Lance, and talk about... So there'll be another case. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We think it's very, very dangerous and it actually shows all the sterileness of any anti-corruption strategy at all. On the other hand, we are again serving these rather unskilled sophistical practices. So this is like when it becomes a bald man. I wasn't happy when we were 50th on that score list because we were corrupt. Now we're in 70th place and it's still showing. So there was nothing better then or now much worse than just showing that it was one continuity and that's the problem. And now you have some methodological shifts and perceptions, really in this sense, it's certain that when you're in the first month that you're a little pregnant and when you're nine months pregnant then you're very pregnant but you're going to have it for sure. That's why I'm saying the same to me as a member of this liberal worldview really bothers this eternal introduction of that strict bibliology... in our societies which are truly in no way productive and really only shows once again our desire to fight only for a better past and that we are not interested in the present and the future at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60753	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60754	Listen, pal, I'm afraid I have to talk about Shimatz, the Council of Councilors, Imostroy, Saint Marina when they're examples of corrupt affairs. Now I can't talk about a new film I don't know about. This is the subject, we're talking about corruption. As for continuity, look. There's no continuity that you claim exists, there isn't. Because when a country is in 74th place and falls to 51st and returns to 70th then it is not continuity, then it is discontinuity and discontinuity from which it can precisely reflect the activity of a government, a ruling set, a team that is successful or not successful, as it encourages or encourages corruption itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60755	Dear Representative Jagoda Majska-Martinčević replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60756	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, look, I'd like to know what Mr. Stazic thinks when he says that we all encourage the government to fight corruption. Is that the way I usually join Mr. Letica here? I can admire the rhetoric of Mr. Stazic, who is very close to the theatre, but when he goes to a bad children's theater, then it has no weight anymore. So how could this help the government fight corruption on our part? Whether to quote some polls or statistics. Why should we trust these statistics or polls in the first place, even if it was Amnesty International, for what? Is that the Holy Scriptures? I don't think so, Mr. Stazic. I think that reality, elections, these are indicators in this country, not polls, because we know very well how some surveys are done and how some statistics are done. The way it suits who. Therefore, the government cannot be blamed for any place, no 20th, no 40th, no 150th, if anyone writes it to her. Give me proof of that. But I will return to Mr. Hebrang's discussion from the very beginning this morning who invited all of us here to a consensus that we all try to agree together and fight evil, not to argue with your examples that the sparrows on the branch already know and who are completely unwarranted because we can also return to you with Victor Lance, with 200 principals, with "bBartholomean night", with "Plyvo", with no idea what. It's all expensive nonsense. Gentlemen, stop playing children's theater and let's join up with this sincere wish on this side so that we can all make sure that this whole problem goes away a little bit. But stop attacking us and especially this government with some kind of poll that's not credible, they're not.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60757	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60758	Listen, I hope no one from Transparency International has heard what you're saying now because if it is, then Croatia will fall 90th tomorrow from the 70th. If you think so about an international institution that their data is completely irrelevant, that they are incorrect and that you hold the stand of Andrija Hebrang, who says that HDZ has conducted some research and therefore this government is not corrupt. It is corrupted by the SDP and if you claim that these research is more relevant than the "Transparency International" research, then you say what you think about these studies at all, the picture our country provides in the world and how successful you will be against this corruption. You're saying that I'm inciting... And I'm calling. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I encourage and call and so call and encourage her to disband the council where she bought the mandates tomorrow. I'm encouraging him to withdraw the 30 million-year-old forgiveness decision, and then your citizens won't think it's your theater, especially the children's theater. But they're going to clap on it, they're going to commend this government and Prime Minister Sanader, and they're going to make sure that all you wrote is serious. Otherwise, if you don't do it, then it's your theater, bad theater text, this program you sent to Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60759	Next replica, respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60760	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues Stazic said that people think that we are corrupt if I have heard it right now. That's partly true. That's partly true because one part of people probably thinks we're corrupt, but you know the other part of people probably thinks that the other side is corrupt. The best standard and the only way so we'll see what people think is actually going to be the next election that will show what people think about it? The second thesis I'd like to comment on are these scales of "Transparency Inter-national" and they're not controversial and I wouldn't want to underestimate them. However, the authors of these charts themselves The authors themselves say that there is no specific unit to measure corruption. [[Intruder: Gentlemen!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60761	You don't respond to that name?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60762	And they're actually relativating those scales themselves. So on that side, when we see the very relativity of all of this, and this parallel that has been withdrawn between the former President of the Parliament and the current President of the Parliament, I also think it's quite relative because in the former President of the Parliament, we had an investigative committee that determined that a man when he was president of the Parliament from his own company who had the ownership stakes that he had done business with this state and made 40 contracts of total value, I mean one 10 or 12 million kuna. I don't think this President of the Parliament is a builder or oversees construction, and I believe we're not going to do what we know so far, not deal with these things. Also, as regards the cause of corruption, the NGO itself, the international association as one of the major causes of corruption, based on research undertaken in the countries of transition, cited the legacy of the past system. According to them, the last system left a bad economy, a bad state, a bad state of mind. These are the three elements on which they base their claims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60763	The answer to the line with, and I beg you with that explanation that in the replica, I don't know what you mentioned me.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60764	I don't know either. A colleague of Bošnjakovic, a colleague of Bosnjakovic's, no, the interrogation wasn't me. The interview worked "Transparency International" and there cited the post of President of the Parliament. I'm really not responsible for that. I fully agree with you when you say that part of the people think the government is corrupt and not part of it. I am convinced that no one from HDZ for this government thinks that it is corrupt especially if you would interview Mr. Hebrang, Mr. Zuzul, Mr. Hebrang for Shimatsa, Mr. Zuzula for Imostroy, I believe, I am convinced that you would get a negative answer. I'm convinced. So someone always thinks it is, and someone thinks it isn't. As for the fact that, when you claim that the authors of these studies themselves relativize these studies, I didn't have to admit it anywhere. I didn't hear anywhere that Transparency International said, "I'm sorry, but what we've done now is give it to me, please take it with the reserve. Don't do that, don't pay attention to that. That doesn't make any sense to you anyway. Take HDZ's public opinion exams. They're much, much more relatable."
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60765	And in what research did the president of the Parliament say?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60766	Transparency International [[Intruder: They've been doing it.]] [[Intruder: Quoted.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60767	Quoted. But who are they? Is it like, like an institution, like?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60768	I'll give it to you, I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60769	So it's not actual, it's like, one of the future and the past. As in 1967, Prime Minister Eugene O'Neill was "Corruption at the Palace of Justice". [[Intruder: The one we have.]] Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60770	You tell my colleague Stazic that we were in 70th place, 74th where we were in 1999. And you support your allegations by finding the Transparency International research. But you can see today's power comes to terms with it: that's not true. That's not credible. There's a problem here with the government that she's running away from reality. She doesn't care about reality. So how do you create an illusion? How to create an obsession? That's what's interesting. And not to face reality to determine the state and she's changing it. So it's only by hand to explore an international institution that you know what some from the east say about such international institutions that they're white-world mammals and white-world hoistuplers. It's on that trail. And as for the Rabbit, not this power, I don't think he's going to hide the Rabbit. Because she made it possible for him through the Fast Project to reproduce, so we of one Rabbit who's forgiven we now have two Rabbits, two companies completely innocent. I'm not burdened. Dissolved and cleansed through the Fast Project.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60771	Oh, yeah. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60772	I couldn't agree with you, colleagues Anticevic-Marinovic, that the government is taking its hand on the find and opinion of "Transparency International". The proof of that is the third page of this program. According to the "Transparency International" index, the Republic of Croatia was on the 74th place of the country's scale with widespread corruption in 1999. According to international surveys for 2005, the Republic of Croatia was placed 70th on the ranking. The government therefore holds the view of Transparency International. That's why he quotes it. There the government is slightly different from its own club that completely rejects it, but the government respects this. The only thing the government forgets to sign up for is the time-out of 2001 because if it were signed in then it would be seen that for the term of office of this government, the picture deteriorated. As far as rabbits are concerned, your rabbits are growing fast!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60773	Yes, yes, very quickly. Dear Representative Ivica Pancic. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60774	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament on the question in the poll who is guilty of the increase in corruption citizens have responded if he trusts fellow Stazic, and I believe that he correctly quoted it as saying the legacy of HDZ authorities is the answer which means HDZ itself. Which is why I'm gonna try to answer it a little differently. Political science distinguishes three basic types of political parties. One type of charismatic party, the other type of clientilist party and the third type are software parties. The general agreement is that a stable democratic and party system is based on programme parties. So, parties who choose citizens because they represent certain political, ideological and other social interests. Here we distinguish the meanings of conservative parties, liberal, social-democrats etc. The ruling party in Croatia means HDZ is a programme party no doubt because it would not receive so much support in the electoral body, but to a large extent HDZ is also a clienteleist party. That's not just what I'm saying but there's a lot of consensus in political transition studies that's exactly how it is, and clientelism to conclude necessarily leads to corruption. That is why Croatia has fallen 20 places on this scale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60775	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60776	Well, look, fellow Pancic, it's not about whether to trust Nenada Stazic or not to trust Nenada Stazic. The site vdv for Transparency International Croatia should be opened. All of this information will pop out and you will see therefore the results of the studies that show what I quoted exactly as I quoted it and that the legacy of the HDZ authorities is considered the biggest reason for increasing corruption in this country and that in 2003, they considered it as 10% less than today and 2005, respectively. By 10%, the number of citizens who succeed HDZ authorities considered the biggest reason to increase corruption in the country has increased. Therefore, it is not about Nenad Stazic, it is about Transparency International, and for these other data that his colleague Hebrang has to look for on the HDZ website for these studies I do not know.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60777	In the desert process and desert debates, it is different from that inherited. There's a lot of property from different owners that was brought into the luggage by HDZ authorities. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60778	Mr. President, gentlemen of the State Secretary, so here's the corruption today's favorite word known in Europe. We see frequent affairs, here I think of those revealed clearly. The countries in transition didn't become champions of corruption overnight, because in the former state, with bribes, they gave us apartments, got jobs, could avoid endless waiting in tails for oil, flour, detergents and the like. And what about the countries placed in front of us. Here are the representatives of a large and famous Italian company that received a concession for gasification here. They explored how we should not have bribed anyone, and in a country that will soon join the European Union before us, they received a list of 80 people to be bribed or they will not talk to them. People explain to me who evaluates the corruption of society in us and say it is regularly a respected professor who would be more convincing that he is not as chairman of the Post-Death Assistance Supervisory Board to receive a housing loan with extremely favourable conditions. Whether it was a loan or something, I don't know either. The Supervisory Board is doing a lot of things. Analysts are too often politically colored, and generally independent experts have a perilous past, so let's say even one has a nickname of a mystery 10% and similar from history. We heard just before I was worried by my fellow Stazic that we should not insult them because we will leave for 20 more places immediately, so it occurred to me that we may not have corruption but only Petrovic and Kregar are offended. Unfortunately, foreign investors don't usually come alone. Most often they are accompanied by problematic domestic mechanics, which for a good commission lead them to purchase property-lawful uncleared property, so that they are said to be corrupt by the clerks that there is nothing they can do until someone is paid off and so on. We are happy that there are people in the administration who function in expensive, they function faster in expensive gifts or money, but most of the sinners and in those places we have found because they are 20 and more years old. The problem with politicians is that individual cases generalise it. There are individuals, doctors who like to do private jobs on black, individuals professors who sign up for bribes, individuals officers who miss out, customs officers who miss hats, individuals and clerks who miss out on building permits or deal documents, so individuals of mayors who buy villages, individuals and tenants who buy villas for small money, but these are individuals. A clear individual minister who set up jobs for his companies for several hundred million kunas between January 3rd 2000 and the end of 2003, and now wants to become prime minister must have greater responsibility and a clear case of greater weight. Some media have proved bribery before the 2000 elections because they helped Ivica Racan to come to power, and in return 14 journalists got a job in diplomacy. Fair enough, me to you, you to me. We heard from the minister today a series of corruption control measures that can succeed with everyone's cooperation. As a rule, no one bribes himself. I can't cover my own failures from the recent past, but I can hold on to how much I see teaching about other people's morals. Bill Gates thanked Croatia for not knowing that our opposition was a greater expert than he was, and we didn't even give him a few bays. The proposal for a national programme to combat corruption in 2006-2008 should be supported not for the sake of authority or opposition, but for all inhabitants of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60779	Thank you. Take it easy. Replica, distinguished representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60780	Well, colleague Markovanovic, you are today one of the few HDZ representatives who actually dispute that corruption in Croatia has a problem with corruption. You're being questioned by Transparency International. You are questioned by experts who have been studying corruption for years. And there's definitely a problem. You know, colleague Markovanovic, if you as members of the majority party do not have to face the problem that corruption in this country has and that it is a problem, then that means that you are not ready to solve this problem. It's only when you admit there's a problem and then you can start solving it. And finally, the fact is that the fight against corruption is not evaluated by words and formulas but by works. And you are simply here today testifying that you are a government that seeks to continue to support corruption, not to fight it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60781	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60782	Well, I'm sorry my colleague didn't follow or understand what I was about to say. No one said corruption did not exist. But encouraged by the thought of Mr. Stazic that if we offend the gentleman concerned that we will immediately fly 20 more places on that list, or lower, we will fall 20 places lower. Then I started thinking about how we got into that place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60783	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60784	You said your colleague and I could agree that he could absolutely succeed if he put all his strength into it. That's right. But you have failed to say who is most responsible and what the Government should do immediately. You see, the one who's a good part of the author of this text wrote: "The words are too many, the works are missing.". So, what should the government do? First of all, what the World Bank is giving her and the World Bank that warns of non-transparent employment, of non-compliance with the criteria of expertise. It literally says: "Contests serve only as a facade, as a cover, but predetermined and selected ones.". Perhaps the most recent example of how for a negotiator, please, for science and education a person who does not speak English at all, although this condition is part of one of the basic conditions. Giving up on the criteria of ability in favour of the criteria of similarity or family choice is nothing but corruption and it is the most political and dangerous one. Just over a few months ago, the public got on their feet because of the abandoned practice of hiring them in law enforcement not with the best grades but with the worst grades. So please, that person will be the judge tomorrow. She'll judge just as she came. The twins are here. You've done great. That's what happened for this government's term of office. We have established a criterion and on our own initiative that first they are excellent, if there are no great very good, if there are no very good. It happened during this government. So, correct these things, and then we'll be able to believe that you're serious. First, replace Mr. Vukelic who actively participated in corruption. What Palaric is still doing on this already most notorious institution that has come to this place thanks to him. Local self-government units, councils, somewhere not, depending on where they need to be and what they need to be. Even he already prejudges what the Prime Minister would think. So him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60785	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60786	Well, it seems to me, fellow Members, that I was right when you got so angry. I think a really this energetic performance can only be when you hit someone with the truth in your forehead. In fact, if it is competitions, competitions are such a relative term. Let's just say seven tilt trains were purchased, no contests, direct contracts. A whole series of how, say, Cres built a house of 10 million kunas obtained without competitions, Coning etc., all during your power. So do a once-in-a-lifetime analysis before you throw yourself on a rock, even if it's "the Stone of Ingrad" on the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60787	Okay. Replica, the esteemed representative of Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60788	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I can agree with my colleague Markovanovic that the problem of corruption is not only, it is not from the age of independent Croatia. And I can agree with him that it was also in the former regime where he states that they were advantages in the oil lines, detergents, I don't know what they all don't, in getting apartments, jobs, etc. But you know what the difference is today? The difference is they're up after the '90s. For years, they could buy property to get nationalized villas. Which could have been obtained through the privatisation of the company, without paying anything, that the workers were fired, that the property was taken into account, and the consequences were nothing. We're only making conclusions. To be eligible for a job, most often by direct contract, to lend out of bankruptcy, including to the ministers' families. To hire members of ropes and wider families, ministers and people from the government at a time when the rate is over 18%, the unemployment rate, and when the job is straight to the lottery premium, you know. That's the big difference. And not to mention, he's being called here, among other things, you said, we need his community to fight corruption. Of course we do. But first we must all be ready to admit that corruption exists, that it is a great evil. And then, if it's such a condition that it's just a perception of our citizens, and the reality is far better, then why are we bringing in a program like this and then what is the call to this community? Indeed, this union will be and the fight will be successful when this other party acknowledges that this is a great evil and that we must say who is involved in this.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60789	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60790	Well, here's the fact that the differences certainly exist then and now. The fact that corruption really exists, but unfortunately it's too small for those who want to say, who want to find out who they might say are whistlers or, let's say, in a way, MPs, wake up every morning to Ankica Lepoj, but it's weird how he never wakes him up like Vesna Balenović, right? But, dear God, there's always been a difference between people. And what's the difference between sometimes and now? Well, sometimes the representatives and predecessors of your party from which you have sued in Belgrade, and today you all sue in Brussels. There's a difference here.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60791	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60792	Mr. Vice President, so I'm going to replicate to an esteemed colleague because he didn't mention all the important things about corruption and preventing the same. Namely, the interior ministry as an institution that should deal with strict supervision in law enforcement and removal from law. In the past term, the former government has placed its duty in the role of corruption and corruption rather than preventing it from reporting against those who have committed it. So we can stress from buying expensive carpets without competitions to expensive 4m-euro speedboats. We can also say that in this same ministry that should have been involved in preventing corruption and in revealing those corrupt persons, a number of things happened in the sale of real estate, so 16 apartments in Selc and Pag were sold for indemnity probably to one of your politically capable perhaps and to one of your own, I would not wish to consolidate. So the highest quality properties in the most attractive areas of the Croatian coast went into invaluableness. Also in the moment of 2002, when all the vehicles of the field "puh", "mercedes" are withdrawn and sold without bid for a bagatel price that had only about 30 thousand kilometers on its dials. I don't know who approved it or if it wasn't for the purpose of corruption. And that I don't list a whole series of those corrupt actions that were carried out through one of the important ministries that should have been dealt with without talking about the Ministry of Defence as well as 200 people who have been admitted to the Ministry of the Interior, without adequate medical testimony or evaluation of the ability of a doctor to be employees of the Ministry of the Interior. And finally, I want to say that by abolishing the Financial Police, you have clearly confirmed where your government's guidance goes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60793	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60794	Dear Vice President, after all these allegations were made by my colleagues, I lost my word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60795	Thank you. Let's move on. The word has an esteemed representative Drazen Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60796	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. There is no doubt that corruption is one great evil and that it gnaws upon the foundations of society and the rule of law and has a harmful effect on the social community and harms both the economy and the moral aspect and the political aspect. Accurate definitions of corruption say the theorists are gone because it is in such different forms that it is difficult by one precise definition in fact to specify which would cover all the behaviors that corruption knows. But the most common definition mentioned in theory is that it is abuse of public service or authority for personal use. In the concrete life of corruption is mostly and most often every bribery with the aim of achieving a right that does not have or that someone realizes a right to what would be said before order, and of course there is always connected to the giving of certain rewards of any kind, any other kind. So corruption is always mentioned along with bribery. It's kind of the most common and entrenched actually term of bribery and corruption. Corruption, of course, is not only a problem of the Republic of Croatia, it is a problem for other countries, especially transition and international civil society dealing with this phenomenon of corruption and which are concerned with the investigation and analysis of this phenomenon, they have recognised that corruption has a very fertile soil in transition countries. Of course, so do we, and therefore we need to know about this problem, to know where it appears, how it appears, but significantly, we also need the will to fight corruption. They say that this is not the central question of whether corruption can be fought because there are those where people are totally hopeless and say there is actually no cure for corruption, the central question is actually here whether we want to fight corruption. That is why I think it is very important from this parliamentary debate to send one message to the Croatian public, that the Croatian Parliament is unique in this one wish, in one will to fight corruption and therefore it would be good that this programme proposed today by the Croatian Government, to bring a consensus of all political parties in this House, was in this text, in a way to improve it for someone to have other quality proposals, but in any case this programme would be good to go as one joint document. Otherwise this programme was also at the debate in the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts on its Scientific Council for Administration and Justice and as far as I saw and finally I was and participated in the debate there, this programme was accepted and this programme actually had very good grades. So I don't think it's good to bring down the debate to the level of individual attacks, this government I don't know is corrupt less, this government is more corrupt, this government isn't corrupt at all, and it's all going in fact in favor of one thesis that we're all trying to prove to the public that we're not all the same, and that's a big one. But this kind of debate, which is only a black-and-white character, we are just in public confirming that we are actually perceived by the public as being the same. This is a bad one message because one of the basic measures in the fight against corruption is to restore people's confidence in institutions. This means we must restore the trust of the people and the institution of MPs as an individual, but we must also restore confidence in the institution of the Parliament as the highest legislative body of government in the Republic of Croatia. It is also necessary to restore trust in the bodies of the public authorities in particular in our judiciary. There have indeed been a lot of speeches about the judiciary here, and the judiciary is one of the pillars and foundations of our society, even though people find it unfunctioning of state bodies, then there really is one picture of the state's functioning very badly. In these two years, it seems to me that we've done a lot of good things in the judiciary, and it seems to me that we've gone a good way. Of course, it's not just that we're on our way to this government's mandate. I have often said to this speaker that in our term of office, we have done many good things to the government in the judiciary, and this is where I challenge the thesis of my fellow SDP colleagues who have said that it all comes down to the start of this programme by Sanader's government. I think we're in the Justice segment, we have a finer line of actually good results and good changes that we started in the previous term, but also now. Let's just remember, we've changed the Law of Courts, we've made changes to the Penal Code, we've passed amendments to the Implementing Law, our land books are digitized, our courts are relieved, there are shifts, because the number of backlogs in our courts is still decreasing. You can see that from statistics, of course. We've also brought inspectors into the judiciary, which will lead to reinforcements, increased responsibility for work. These are all the measures that have been introduced and, of course, that is one big and big problem that cannot be solved overnight. Of course, there's still a lot of work ahead of us. The program we have ahead of us seems to properly analyse the situation of things, see where the problems are and prescribe measures and prescribes carriers who are in charge of the same, but also very precise deadlines when it is necessary to do so. We see that we have a lot of deadlines that are already in June, which are in September this year, and it looks like we're actually going to have one big, big part of the work that we're going to do on the basis of this. As for these "Transparency International" charts and the rest of these associations, I've already said it in the replica of my fellow Stazic. I'm not underestimating these charts at all, but there is actually a book here from the authors of these charts that says that these scales are not based on empirical knowledge. They're like they say, they're estimates. Today they can be like this, tomorrow they can be like that, but in any case, they don't need to be underestimated. Today we have information that the Republic of Croatia is thinking 74th place. Here is a colleague, Jandrokovic, in the debate today, who has actually expressed his praise to the European Commission's representative about the functioning of our office "Hytro.hr". That's two things that don't go with each other. Fighting corruption is one long game and only a long fight can be fought. So we're thinking of limiting to one government, this government with that game, that battle is going to have to deal with those other governments that will come after this, and I don't think there's any doubt about it. But one thing though, what I've said in some of the corrections I've said before. I don't think we can say that this government has done anything to stop corruption so far. The large number of laws the government has proposed, the laws we have received these two years, they reduce the scope of corruption. They have important anti-corruption elements in them. I just want to repeat, we've established the Treasury so we don't have 400 jury accounts anymore. So the flow of money is much more transparent and, of course, we need to change it more, but we've introduced certain crimes. We've amended the Courts Act, we've passed the Interests Act, we've set up the office "Hurry.hr". We have digitalization of land books, we have changed the Law on Support, we have passed the Law on the handover of authorities, we have changed the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests, we have passed the Law on Direct Elections for Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the Municipalitys, we have established a Croatian Financial Supervision Agency. So we have introduced order on the market, I don't know, flour, cigarettes, meat, all of these are measures that are anti-corruption and therefore this programme is not the beginning of a fight against corruption. This program is actually a continuation of a struggle that lasts for two years and that lasts, in fact, two years ago. But of course there's still one far way ahead of us because it's one process, it's one long-term struggle. And the main goals actually in this game against corruption is one overall development. This means that, in this overall development, the Assembly must adopt clear and precise laws that will eliminate opportunities and space to act according to principle, it can do so either way. The government must ensure conditions and supervision in the efficient functioning of the public administration and other state bodies and institutions as well as the conditions for economic growth and development, and the judiciary must be independent, professional and efficient. There are examples in the world, it's Singapore, it's Chile, it's Hong Kong. These are countries that were actually infected with corruption, but they managed to win the games. So we need to imitate positive examples, and if we come out of this room together with a desire to fight it, I think we can succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60797	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60798	Mr. Vice President, I'm going to replicate because I've announced that not everything is said only through the Ministry of the Interior as one of the factors in countering corruption. And the Department of Defense has not been spared the same acts and acts that speak of a series of irregularities in supply, and I will mention only some. From the purchase of Navy uniforms that the SDP pioneer president personally obtained from his firm, from his birthplace without competition and without anyone's decision, until the rockets that were missing, i.e. were sold abroad to Macedonia at a good price. But in the defense ministry's budget, there's never been a single kuna, let alone one euro. Last night, the country's security was at stake when an arsenal of 5,000 and 100 rockets, and the fuel of a thousand and 755 sets went untraced and disappeared and sold. Then what is the defence force of a country such as Croatia that should have at least that much always on the alert. Looking further, a remont of Russian MiGs which has also been carried out non-transparently because it is known that Romania is one of the countries that also buys from the Soviet Union former planes, and is now given it to remount and the same although there is an agreement on military-technical co-operation with the Russian Federation between the Republic of Croatia and the Soviet Union. Also, it is likely another remont of one of the aircraft that was personally driven by the minister when she destroyed the board, the same on the ministry's burden that is inadmissible. And I don't think budget damage like that should have been allowed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60799	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60800	There are still equative examples where without competition, without anything...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60801	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60802	... Euroleasing and the rest, after the election are negotiated...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60803	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60804	Well, the goal is, in fact, in a regulated rule of law, that such things are sanctioned by the rule of law. It means that the basic police, that the judiciary, are doing their job properly. And in fact, we here in the House as in the highest representative body shouldn't be dealing with that sort of thing. This, when we reach such a stage of development that such things are sanctioned by the rule of law, I think there will be no need for such discussions and for such tones and I don't really think that we contribute to the quality of the strategy itself in a way that we can now draw examples because we can really talk about it by morning and the arguments on this side and the arguments on the other hand. I think we should concentrate on the strategy itself and try in fact if there are any more quality proposals to me it seems that the strategy is quite fine, it has very precise deadlines, it has very clear carriers and very clear tasks that are intended... Do it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60805	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60806	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's Bošnjakovic, I might agree with you in a good part and in your debate, but when you talk about the problem of corruption, etc., the fight that should be fought in Croatia, but you are calling in fact through your debate as well as some of your colleagues and colleagues on the consensus on this document that we have received here, so what is called the National Corruption Prevention Programme Proposal. However, I don't know how I can stand behind a programme that, in what's written inside, first by this government, eliminates and silences what the former government has done to curb corruption. In one single sentence, the national programme and the action plan have not been implemented, and we are proving with a series of legal solutions adopted by this Parliament that we have done very well through this Parliament and the fight against corruption. You are calling therefore to reach a consensus in which, among other things, in the field of local self-government and public administration, and therefore after everything that has happened to us during last year, after the local elections, the main role and the main driver of the fight against corruption, please the Central State Office for Management, which is precisely by its own action or inaction, that is, in everything that has happened in the past local elections, and it should now be the main and responsible holder, and some deadlines relating to June and September of this year, and I remind you that for a year and a little more, we have been waiting for this Central State Office to make a proposal for a series of amendments and additions to the laws that will concern local self-government, which have a limited impact on corruption. And how do we get a consensus on a program like this now?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60807	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60808	Well, fellow Members, you really don't have to agree with all the facts, but you can suggest some measures, I think it's much more important that the measures are proposed here. I think that these measures that are proposed in the programme are not controversial, I think that all measures actually have places in our legal system and in fact all of these laws that will be passed under this programme I think they're actually going in the fight against corruption so actually what I'm calling for, I'm calling for us to actually make it better in principle, give some kind of a different proposal on that, we make this program better than it's proposed. I think he's correct, but if there's room, if you have any other ideas why not. As for the Central State Office and this crisis regarding local self-government, it is indeed something that has shaken our public, but you must be aware that it is also the Government and the Central State Office that have made a decision on the disbanding of the two county parliaments, about the disbanding of a city council where they have made a clear announcement about the Bianca resignations so that we now have new elections in these areas, which I also think is a good measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60809	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of the Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60810	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I fully agree with you, dear colleague Bošnjaković, that we do not need to be overly impressed by reports, grades, etc. those certain international institutions, organisations, etc. You know, they have their own rules, they have their own criteria for us, and they treat us a little bit like the colony, although we're just saying two hours from London. In addition to this, I will tell you an example from the city where I come from, so from Vukovar about one such organization that has been dealing with a little bit of reports, a little and a little renovation, funded and renovated some residential buildings and thanked them for that and when one of those 10 apartments was finished, they were asked to have the consent to join the power grid. And then the gentleman came all freaked out to me that this is what they're asked to do, and they're connected to the electricity that would be said. Well, as you're connected, they've joined the lamppost so their mixer can work. What he wrote in the report, I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60811	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60812	I've already made a lot of comments, these are estimates, there's no exact unit of measures that actually measure corruption. The assessment today is like this, tomorrow like this, and here I'm just going to read from this anti-corruption book where these estimates are said to remain just what the name tells them, the estimates, they're not completely empirically subdued but subjective and partial, but it's still possible to extract certain... So you don't need to underestimate them, but I don't think they're the central issue. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60813	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60814	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are already having a lot of discussion about corruption, obviously that this is a problem that occurs in many countries especially as a problem present in countries of transition, so we are not spared either. Of course, corruption creates mistrust with institutions not only of the executive but also of the judicial authorities, and, above all, creates mistrust with the political public. If policy protects this kind of behaviour, it is normal for citizens to lack confidence in politicians, but it is the opinion that politicians are not engaged in public good but in their own personal well-being, so today politics often means doing some dishonest work. Such a change unfortunately occurs in public. Therefore, any responsible authority must plan and implement measures to prevent corruption, various research, citizens' reactions, in general public change, says that the government believes that corruption exists, that it threatens the most economic development, but also the democratisation of society. The determination of all of us to engage in the fight against corruption, and in particular the determination of the authorities, is crucial to curbing this phenomenon. The government of the Republic of Croatia has already set up a series of colleagues here today, and it has launched a whole series of measures, so here is this fight programme that prevents corruption. The return of trust in public administration must be one of the priority tasks in the public service. What bothers the citizens in this area? That's first of all what we've already heard here today, so on and so on. Political employment especially of public service employees and trust it most locally, therefore in the executive and administrative bodies of local self-government, regional and regional units. I am sorry that there is not Mrs Antunovic here, who in her opening speech has accused the Croatian Democratic Community of such a type of employment and I am going to set an opposite example from my county where the coalition in power of eight SDP-led parties hired thirty new people in the county administration in four months and all because of coalition relations, almost all SDP council members were replaced with well-paid seats in various administrative departments because of the six formations of ten administrative departments. Believe me, and a whole series of contracts for work that I don't know what these councilmen are doing. So it's some sort of phenomenon that's general. I am sorry that there are no colleagues from Kurt who said in his replica that he did not get an answer to the council's question in Zadar about employment. I also didn't get the council's question because I'm also a councilwoman in the county assembly for the same answer from the authorities mentioned and that's participating in the government and Mr. Kurt's party, so I'm sorry too. Why do I give this example? I want to show that we can't talk about someone else by continuing to debate Mr. Bošnjakovic and not thinking about what's going on in our ranks. It is normal for citizens, after all, to ask a question but they do not even get answers to what, how and who to trust, are they chosen to hire in well-paid places relatives, spouses and the like. And in our county, we became one big family. Also today, I'm going to talk about just one segment that was not mentioned in one area, which is education and science, which is obviously that because of the situation in which it is and there are no exceptional examples in this area. In June 2005, the government adopted a plan to develop a system of education and education from 2005 to 2010 in order to set basic priorities and to improve education and education as a system in legal, human, material, scientific and professional assumptions. The priorities of the area in the mentioned plan are improving, teaching and learning in schools, developing knowledge and skills of breeding and teaching staff, improving their social and material position. We must point out that it is people who, for years, donate their knowledge to their students are most often underpaid, because their wages do not increase and do very responsible work. The plan sets targets for increasing the share of gross social products for education from the current 4.3% to 4.9%. The aim is also to increase regular expenditure on quality education by 2010 to where this plan should be implemented. I hope we'll all be alive so we can see the results and that plan. One of the main tasks is to restore dignity to breeders, teachers and teachers because only a satisfied teacher will invest even more power without some personal life burdens to devote himself to the educational work and needs of his students. Local, regional, regional, regional self-government should be included in the financing of schools and kindergartens but responsibility should be sought. State authorities should seek responsibility for the local community and founders to put education institutions in priority through their public education needs programme, thus providing additional resources to improve teachers, improved working conditions in schools. The ministry has also launched a whole series of projects to prevent possible developments in this area so far. The external evaluation of the programme shall be introduced. Therefore, the National External Assessment Centre is already established, which conducts national exams and all for the purpose of evaluating achievements in schools and the achievements of teachers themselves. State graduation is also being introduced for raising the quality of education as an objective indicator of students' skills and skills. Data from the state's graduation will be able to use schools both for self-evaluation and for safety for improving the quality of work. A new Law on textbooks has also been adopted to prevent corruption. One of the basic phenomena was if you remember a few days ago we discussed and prevented conflicts of interest in the publishing of textbooks. It is certainly good that an educational inspection that plays a very important role in the education system will experience changes itself because it is necessary to ensure, above all, good working conditions and professionals in this area. We need to know that much of the surveillance depends on the inspection work and on the inspection service in education. In the area of higher education, I believe that the introduction of state graduates will prevent problems of enrolment in colleges, that the reform of higher education, higher education will also prevent so-called "high education". Buying a diploma, confirming, that it won't be enough enrollment in one of the colleges. We know which colleges are traditional so that the college itself is finished. And here, in the end, I have to point out that I think that we all need to support these precisely because they are going in order to prevent corruption above all, to bring this phenomenon to perhaps the least of the measures and that we should certainly think about it all, not here to accuse each other but to really think about it and give full support to this government's proposal for these measures, and thus start to fight corruption. Continue what's started well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60815	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60816	counterpart Roksandić, will not solve the problems of enrolment in colleges since the results of the state's graduation will not be recognised at the same time as the classification exams so that we are absolutely clear here. And as for enrolment in college, this anti-corruption programme does not offer a single measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60817	Thank you. Replica is the esteemed deputy president of Dom Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60818	Dear colleagues, Roksandić, Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! So, of course, when discussing this problem, we should try to define what this is about corruption and actually get by and figure out what we want to talk about. Otherwise, we break up and talk about a whole series of things that, of course, can have a relationship and can be about corruption, but in itself, they don't always have to mean corruption. I would like to remind that the Convention on, the Civil-Legal Convention on Corruption is defined as a search, supply, giving or receiving, direct or indirect bribe or any other undue benefit or possibility of obtaining such benefit that disrupts the proper performance of any duties or behaviour required of the recipient of the bribe, the unauthorized benefit or the possibility of obtaining such benefit. In a more difficult form, it exists as an official, when the official requires or receives a gift or any other benefit, or has received the promise, let me add gifts or other benefits to perform an official action within his official authority that should not be carried out or not perform an official action that he or she would have to carry out. Of course, a milder form exists when it has acted as a person in one of these ways, but also in order to carry out an official action that it would have to carry out, or not to carry out an official action that it should not carry out. Of course, here when we talk about it, there is certainly the smallest form of corruption when the official action is already done, but in connection with this action it is required somehow to receive gifts, gifts or other benefits or bribes. Therefore, if we come down into these frameworks now, then we will see what is generally known in corruption. Practically since there's been a conflict of interest in the social community there are some possibilities of corruption. But what is very important is the question not only of how to deal with the consequences, but of how the causes leading to corruption are to account for it least, and in this respect I support part of your debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60819	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60820	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It's good that you support my debate in that regard. I don't know what you meant when you quoted the definition of corruption. I didn't talk about everything and everything. If you're thinking about this job, I've talked about it on purpose, because it's making contracts for some big money, for certain jobs that aren't done or done, so I think that's part of the corruption, because let's just say that by legal means some money gains. I think it's a lot of corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60821	Replica esteemed MP Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60822	Dear colleagues, Mr. Vice President. Yeah, right on the trail of your hearing and I was mayor of two terms and I didn't fire any of the officers found. However, according to this principle of receiving their own to be considered a certain part of the income, and at the same time firing all those here now goes the first contingent of 10 people who have had an orally connected with HDZ is also one kind of ugly political corruption because firing people two, three years before the pensions that are honorable, worth doing their whole internship in the county is incorrect, immoral and I think it is for every conviction. Not a single part to be taken away, and then returned from state money, or county money through special awards, is also an ugly kind of political corruption that should certainly not be supported. And that's why I'm saying it's not good to just lean on each other, because that's why we're doing a bad picture of politics, but working together. I thought I set a good example of not driving anyone out of work. But you see as soon as the ruling coalition comes back, which we know what it was doing with HDZ personnel, "no peace to the porter", everything comes back again, and then we wonder what's going on. That's one bad example, and I don't think we should repeat it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60823	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60824	Dear colleagues, you said at the time before and at the beginning of the debate that you disagreed with privileged employment. I cut that short somewhere was the whole point of your introduction. I agree absolutely with you only then I don't know why you support this government or at least some ministers. You had a recent article in the paper about a ministry, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, which journalists called the Ministry of Marriage Friends, Sons and Daughters. Why? Children of Ministers Marine Matulović Dropulić, Dubrovnik Mayor of Dubravka Shuice, head of the Staff Department of the Ministry of Vesna... And some other kids got a job at the Expo exhibition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For example, Ozana Biscevic, daughter of Hidajet Biscevic, the secretary of state in the same ministry, was employed in the ministry after 2 months of graduation without a public competition. Then, for example, a case already called... As one former minister, Zuzula, a very famous acquisition without any knowledge of diplomacy as a diplomat at Waschington. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For example, the wife of Minister Primorac, Mrs Jadranka Primorac, who was an anonymous diplomat at the post of Desk Officer until her husband arrived on ministerial duty. After her husband became a minister overnight, she became an adviser to economic diplomacy or, for example, Marija Brajkovic, the head of the intelligence agency's sister, Veseljko Grubisic, was hired by accident or not in the anti-intelligence agency. So I'm asking if we're all up to it, and I agree here if we're against privileged employment, then why are you supporting this government and why haven't you raised these questions to the ministry, these family ties, marriage mates and daughters?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60825	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60826	Well, I could also answer my colleague, Lugaric, against your question. What has been going on for 4 years, referring to my fellow Mlinarić's response. I certainly don't support and honor this government, because I believe in the government program. But I can also ask you, then, why do you support at the local level your members who do the same and play some kind of game I'm going to say here local sheriffs. You support them the same way if we do. I could also answer with a question, and the fact that you read here a whole series of names and last names from newspaper articles should be asked about it. I could also read such certain people and call them nepotism. I don't believe there's nepotism in any of these situations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60827	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Nevenka Majdenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60828	Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Here today, a question has already been asked many times what is the concept of corruption. In the dictionary of foreign words, corruption is explained as corruption, bribery, bribery, bribery, and so word has one broader meaning than what we're talking about today. Otherwise, corruption has been emerging for years. She didn't show up all of a sudden, now, but gradually crawled into society like a disease in her body. When we recognize her and become aware of her actions, she has already spread into all the pores of the social body. It's very hard to find her and even harder to prove. Protect and hide it and those using its means to make it easier for them to exercise their rights and those using it to achieve unsuspected and fast material benefits. Corruption is not only present in Croatia. She is present in all countries of the world. Except there's a place where she's kept quiet, and there's a public word about her in the other. They are called and condemned by its bearers. It's like an addiction to you. He'll have a hard time admitting he's an addict, and when he admits that to himself, that's the first big step towards healing. This current government has the strength and political will to say openly that there is corruption but at the same time announces war, yes, and it is said that it will be tackled even though it is a long-term process. The government has developed and offered a quality national programme to combat corruption in which it has established tasks, holders and deadlines for its implementation. Now, this program is now ahead of us, and it's up to us to support it eventually, but we're also involved in its implementation. Already before proposing this National Programme, which contains a series of projects such as "Hurry HR" which has been implemented in all counties and Zagreb, the projects "E Tax Administration", "E Public Procurement" and similar projects in the area of catastra, land books, customs offices, education and health care are in place. These projects allow citizens and entrepreneurs to move faster towards the provision of public services and obtaining the necessary documents without direct contact with civil servants. Thus, there will be no need to bribe officials in order to achieve a public service. On the other hand, projects like this supported by modern technology will enable better bodies of state authorities to work, remove borders and obstacles within and between them but also between citizens and state services. In addition, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament have so far taken a number of measures and many amendments to the laws that have brought Croatia's legal system into line with the acquis of the European Union and have acted to combat corruption because of the rule of law. I think it is very important that the clearly defined holders are responsible for detecting and punishing all those involved in corruption and the measures envisaged to empower these services and bodies; USKOK, MUP, judiciary. To be staffed, technically teamed and motivated for this very responsible job. Nothing less important or their continuous monitoring and control in the performance of tasks. In the end, I think it's a very important public campaign against corruption. This important role should be played by all forms of media education, about forms, places, species and ways of spreading corruption, up to public condemnation and public awareness of corruption in all forms of life and work. By the end of this term, the government's determination to reduce the problem of corruption to the extent that there is no obstacle to social, economic and political development is visible in the government's proposal to set up a national council to monitor the implementation of the National Corruption Prevention Programme, which should be composed of representatives, employers, representatives of the Trade Unions, representatives of NGOs dealing with the problem of corruption, representatives of the academic community, experts and media representatives. The president of the National Council should be of the order of opposition. The Council monitors the implementation, the Council would monitor the implementation of this programme, propose measures to implement it. It will therefore not carry out the tasks of government bodies, institutions but operationally, but will assess the ways and results of the implementation of this National Programme. My colleagues and colleagues, I really think that we should support this National Programme and that we should use it or that we should set up this National Council to monitor the implementation of this National Programme by assessing both ways and results if we sincerely want to reduce corruption and I am sure that citizens will then be very grateful to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60829	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Marijan Bekavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60830	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable members of the government, respected colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Government is aware of the extent of corruption in Croatian society in all segments, and according to a public opinion survey, the most in justice and health and local self-government and political parties set out this proposal of the National Programme to combat corruption in order to launch a serious action in the repression of this monster that destroys the foundations of every society and so on. Corruption threatens the rule of law, trust in public institutions and the rule of law. Corruption increases and sharpens social differences. Unfortunately, it gives bad examples to young people who at the beginning of their lives see such differences that lead to the conclusion that it is the best and shortest way to acquire all that an average citizen cannot gain through honest work in his working life. Corruption is a phenomenon in every country in the world. But that shouldn't be a reason, an excuse not to do anything about it. In the fight against corruption, we all need to exclude ourselves regardless of the political differences between us. He was well told by his esteemed colleague, Andri Hebrang, that corruption knows neither left nor right nor red or black but only the smell of money. We here in this House of Commons can attack each other all day, cite the example of corruption for political reasons, but citizens have no god-knows-what benefits. Citizens are asking us for concrete moves and are asking for action to be taken once already to address this acute problem that affects their pocket in the first row. Unfortunately, in order to get certain services or to speed up solving their problems, they have to pay and many have no basis for life’s basic needs. First, the government took certain measures and moves such as "Hurry HR" or "E Croatia" and made a major step towards reducing corruption in the government's bureaucratic apparatus. For example, "Hurry HR" enables citizens who open up the company, crafts that in one day they can produce all the necessary documentation and, as early as possible, several months ago. For this proposal of the National Corruption Prevention Programme, it can be said that it is good, but in order not to remain a dead letter on paper, we need to do as I have already said all together to fight corruption. Only in this way can we expect significant, significant results. I would particularly refer here to corruption in the field of sports. It is a public secret that mostly children of wealthy parents are successful in sports, and real talents that could improve Croatian sport are very difficult to succeed or lose motivation in early youth by facing a painful fact that despite their talent, they do not have rich parents who will solve their careers through the argument of fat wallets. Corruption is therefore a serious danger to the social, economic, political and I would dare say the state's mental development. We need systematic reforms, and in particular by preventing and repressive action, constantly curbing corruption in order to contribute to the further development of society. And finally, my full support for the proposal of the National Programme to combat the corruption of the government of Dr. Ivo Sanader so that all of the next governments will have as little trouble with this social evil as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60831	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60832	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, we've been listening all day to all kinds of bickerings and I'm not surprised at those who have been in this House for a very long time, so maybe they're in a lot of different transactions. However, I am surprised at those new representatives who have come to this House now with the intention of changing something and making Croatia different than it has been before. Because the fact that Croatia used to be 50th, and now 70th, that's just as terrible for me. It's exactly the same. And I can't believe we're moving a ball here today who's more or more to whom he's left or who's more fucked up. Well, gentlemen, we're in this House now and I'm curious about what we're doing right now and what we're going to leave for the future. That's a first and a basic question. And that's why I want to know what this strategy is. And I'm wondering if we're ready to implement this strategy. And the fact is that this strategy and the greatest responsibility in the fight against corruption is in the government. Normally, because she's coming with this strategy. It can't be on me from the opposition, because I honestly can't change that much. And why don't I believe too much in this strategy? Because under health care he writes a sentence that's a total lie. Computerized private health care and started a hospital. It's a lie. I speak for primary protection. Because among other things, I was an informer, I was doing health care programs, and if you think it's just passing that card through a magnetic card reader that it's information, it's not. Information is something else entirely. That's just a lie. And if I don't talk about what's inside, which is why I can't possibly support this, which is when it comes to privatisation, I'm not talking about the past, I'm talking about the present, I'm talking about what else needs to be privatized. Not a word of the obligation that this Croatian Parliament has given to the Government where we have, in conclusion, obliged the Government to pass a new Privatisation Act. The deadline's up. Not a word about the ESOP model. The deadline's up, too. That's not in the strategy. And we know very well that from the Privatisation Fund we never got any reports and we don't even know what's going on there. We don't even know how many shares are owned by the state, because that's what the audit said, so we don't know what we own, as soon as the state has it. I don't want to mention affairs at all from before. Because I don't care. I'm only interested in what's happened since I've been in the Parliament. What happened before, gentlemen, you sitting here for a long time, it's your fault it's not cleared up. What's going on right now is I'm taking the responsibility to clear up together and make my full contribution. Only in this government, and that's why I think this is just a dead letter on paper, were "Bechtella" affairs, "Imostroy", "Liburnia", by Karlovac of those kind of contracts. Not to mention the Central State Office. Mr. Palaric knows that the solutions are written in the way that suits the coma. When it comes to disbanding someone or not disbanding someone. Because wherever there was a suspicion on local self-government that it was corruption, that it was any trade of councilmen, you could have disbanded it. You should. And we know very well when we're talking about this political environment, we know very well how long it's been since the elections. Well, they all caught him. Everyone caught him in the cafe and in all the rooms and arranged various coalitions, like we didn't see. And that was it, and we all know that. Here and Franjo knows it was like that. When we talk about public procurement and when we write here about public procurement, we had a review report of 3 billion and 400 was purchased against the Public Procurement Act. Rob. Ninety-four million kunas without any competition, so it wasn't even done under the Public Procurement Act. At the same time, we could show good faith that we would fight it. That's why I don't believe it, and that's one of the reasons why I don't believe this is going to happen. When we talk about public enterprises, gentlemen, there's a three-time pay for managers over here. Three times as big. Did anyone ever mention them? With all that, they have official cars, they have official cards, official phones. Did anyone ever mention them? And do not speak of the amounts and the amounts they have in store for, and the manner in which the bids are furnished, where the prices are raised, and how they come into money. Not a word about that corruption. And about curbing such corruption in this program, not a word. The strategy as a strategy has another part that really hurts me, which is a public action. It says here that some round tables will be organized, magazines, audio records, videos will be published, that the public will be constantly and constantly warned about corruption damage, etc. Well, gentlemen, tell me how to explain to this people that some who are in some way in, I'll say in a robbery way come to their property and they're now respected citizens, they're capable, they're smart and they're, like, the biggest donors for a variety of any sports associations, any religious association. How do you tell people that the one who's honest with his work is trying to climb some social ladder that he can't because he's incompetent, because he's stupid, because he's inconsistencies, and the others were smart. And we all know how they got their property. So some are divorcing and the value of the assets is estimated at not 200 billion euros and they share 200 billion euros in assets they acquired in less than 15 years, millions of euros. But that's a hell of a lot. I don't know what kind of pay I'm paying you, and I don't know how it could have gotten here. And not to mention the ones whose salary was transparent at all times because they were government officials, because they knew how much they were making, in their property card they had to write it and they got abnormal wealth. And now people should explain to me that they have acquired it fairly and should tell people that corruption is evil. So who's gonna believe us? So what credibility? Who ended up in prison? Whoever was processed and where we showed the old well - known example, the beating grew in heaven. Because if we'd given anyone any sanctions, put him on a pillar of shame, that's the best public action.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60833	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60834	Mr. Vice President, it is an absolutely incorrect assumption that Mr. Kapraljevic is absolutely not interested in what was before, because it only said that after the fact that he twisted a whole series of previous events and things, and it is also incorrect that he did not care that he knew something about health care and that he was not interested in computerisation because he was not there. He should therefore be interested in what happened with 550,000 kunas of contracted funds in the MIP Shares used by state officials for their private checks and allowed a doctor of private practice to benefit from state resources. You don't care what your coalition partners did.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60835	Thank you. But it's not about correcting an incorrect quote, you can't kill if the honourable representative Kapraljevic doesn't care about anything. So the correction of the incorrect quote, the esteemed representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60836	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's the incorrect quote, I can quote a colleague. I'm not going back in time, and here he is in the 90s, so he comes somewhere so he skips a clear bright period from January 3rd to the end of 2003, and here he is in 2004 which is the same past, and only a few days before the beginning of 2004, a respected member of his party then, the minister, signes with his firm contracts for 100 million kuna without a building permit, without the ownership stake and any such, PO apartments of Spain. It's funny how we skip periods that are a little worse than the ones we're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60837	Your Honor, this is not about correcting an incorrect quote. I'm giving you a warning about the abuse of the tile. Replica, the distinguished representative of Mayan.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60838	Mayday, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60839	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60840	Well, here's Mr. Kapraljevic put out a very interesting thesis so that we French MPs, so innocent political right, could be an avant-garde that could run something new unlike those of the other who are several mandates. It may be so, Mr. Kapralevich, if only there were no problems, and it could refer to undisciplinedness, or hypocrisy. You see, when you set examples, you've managed to set very many examples, but you've forgotten Victor Lenac and everything that looks like Victor Lentz. As a colleague before you, Mrs Lugaric, for example, named a lot of names among others and the daughter of Mrs Matulović-Dropulić as an example of nepotism, so in some way corruption, which she worked as an interpreter at the EXPO. Yes, because the lady in question is a prominent linguist, unlike being hypocritically silenced by your boss who has fostered all his former wives including the last and appointed her as some demining chief in Croatia, and I'm not sure she's an expert on this particular area. So when we get rid of the hypocrites, then we might be able to take the avant-garde of this House to new working victories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60841	Thank you. Article 214 says one of the points, in the other way to disrupt the order at the session, I am giving Opačić a warning. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60842	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, colleagues, for giving me a chance to explain some things. All the affairs I mentioned are happening for our term of office. I didn't mention any affair before our term in office. It's first and foremost. And for all those other affairs I said who was to blame, those who didn't do it in time, those who sat here before us. I said I'm ready to fight all things while I'm here. What happened before, I don't want to take any responsibility for it. Not a bit, because I didn't take part in the decision making, and that story tells me this, you before, I don't care at all, and that's not how I want to talk at all. And which one of you is going to go back to those stories, I don't care. You can go back to 918, 920, it's all one thing to me, I won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60843	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60844	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to replicate to Mr. Kapraljevic when he spoke very well of some people in companies, managers who have good wages. It is today's session of this House that has turned a full public opinion on us. You're saying that we, that we're stealing, we're saying that you were stealing, and in the end it's going to turn out that only the MPs steal and theirs around. So today, whatever I've been listening to here, I've been trying to be here as long as I can, so these are accusing HDZ of nothing, it's not working 90th, it's not good today either. Thieves steal. We got tomorrow's paper we got today that's coming out tomorrow. The titles of the SDP "HDZ supports the government which it is", God forbid what title. So tomorrow we will declare that we are against the SDP because the SDP has stolen everything in Croatia, and those who are in positions today that you said have up to 100 to 200m euros in account, that they are now sharing. They laugh in their chairs and say, look at those 152, I won't tell you what, how they fight. And mentioning today, we also had the opportunity to mention some husbands, wives, wives, children, or anything. That's so low. So none of my family, if they have from my family, Arabovic, that they can't move forward in their business because I'm a parliamentary representative. Why can't he? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60845	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60846	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I also thank my colleague Arapovic for giving me the opportunity to explain this issue of our salaries and the question of all these managers and all those who hide behind some function and take big money, and no one mentions them. While I was chairman of the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest, all the time, v.d. President, I've been pointing out all along that the slightest corruption is among the parliamentary deputies because we are not executive power. We do not have money as in the City of Zagreb someone has 3 and a half billion kuna. And I'm not talking about what the value of public enterprises is yet. We don't have that kind of power. Our strength is lobbying. The question is, should that lobbying be done to decentralize? I claim you shouldn't, and this is how you point your finger at us, that we're thieves, that's hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60847	Thank you. The word has a esteemed representative of the Crown of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60848	Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. This is exactly the kind of strategy of the national anti-corruption programme that any government should bring. In spite of this, this government and this Parliament have been very helpful in investigating public change, and on the basis of the citizens' thinking of high-risk corruption, they have agreed on this excellent national programme to combat corruption in order to confirm their determination to combat corruption in the first place by training institutions. The existing laws that provide opportunities for them to be implemented because the earlier emphasis was on law-making, and in this programme is the implementation of the law of first-rate importance. So that no special provisions, laws, should be multiplied, but to decide resolutely and firmly that it is time to make it easier for the state and local administration, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and, in general, to guarantee the economy uninterrupted development. Of course, both the Croatian government and this Assembly are determined not to stop at good efforts but to curb corruption systematically and become part of regular, daily activities and activities. Therefore, for every commendation and further encouragement of the Croatian Government, but also of the Croatian Parliament since this mandate has taken a number of measures and numerous amendments to the law, harmonising Croatian laws and regulations with the legal system and property of the European Union, first... to strengthen its economic development, its state administration, local administrations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But also because of the constitutional principle of the rule of law, it is precisely the act of countering corruption. It must not happen to you that these negative sides are overcoming the positive. So far, projects that have been adopted by the strategy and the plan to implement the "Stro" programme have made it possible to quickly and simply, in one place, allow the users of the services of the state administration to perform public services, that they do not need to wander a lot, waste time, but to avoid face-to-face contact with possible civil servants. Because the use of technology contributes to increased co-operation by state authorities, removing fixed borders and barriers within and between them, and in particular by strengthening these links between the authorities of the state administration, citizens, or business entities. A major contribution to the reduction of corruption in information and communication technology is given in areas, I will especially highlight, financial management and public procurement. Of course, with the emphasis that the Public Procurement Act should always be harmonised and modernised according to current trends. But also the Tax Administration, public procurement, adopted systems and a whole series of projects that have been implemented significantly bring exactly anti-corruption measures. It is not necessary to think about it much, but citizens are very clear about what it means to bring the Catastrian into line with the state of the country-book. Very transparent information on your computer to know where we are and where we are to avoid and that small misuse of the powers of official persons in solving cases. Of course, the Penal Code has introduced some new criminal offences, taking bribes in economic business, giving bribes in economic business and ensuring full and unequivocal jurisdiction of the Office for Criminal Crimes of Organized Crimes. But all of this will be another dead letter on paper if we are responsible, who have a majority in the Croatian Parliament and whose Croatian Government we do not work on every day. And the only unique and complex in this Croatian High House can indeed be turned publically to change the benefits of what is called a modern approach, strengthening the legality and rule of law. And it's like a permanent activity just for the benefit of the community. And this particular program is for citizens, for all of us. No difference, because in the judiciary, he happens to be health care, the judiciary, so local self-government and political parties, but it all starts. Gruntovnica, katastri, if we know who owns it, who owns it, we can move on very easily and elegantly because the overload of the courts with the number of pending cases can be solved as already resolved. And this should be said that one and the continuity to switch to less-loaded courts, determine that number of cases, relieve the courts, but certainly we must not just stand on that and on the release declarations. Local self-government often seems to be a smaller source of possible abuses, or corruption, but in practice it is also very clear when building smaller buildings and having been to the public procurement of all these buildings that serve public use from schools, from health institutions to nursing homes, the prices obtained there in the public competition are too high and these supervisions should be daily. It is not necessary to pass new laws and regulations but to apply them decisively so far. We all know how much a bag of cement costs, how many bricks, how many concrete blocks are, and here we need very clearly at the lowest levels to prevent corruption, to prevent conflicts of interest, because without such access, the state administration and public service in all their parts will not be able to monitor modern development. They still adapt to the dispute, are often bureaucratized and obstructive and close space within their interests. Very good and scheduled and relocated and civil servants within the same ministry or within the same state administration in the county can also encourage access to such aspirations. Of course, access to information should be day-to-day and permanent. It cannot happen to be the headship of either the municipality, the city or the county, and there are no such journalists, that such decisions are not published on the websites of the local self-government unit or the regional self-government because it is not only information communication technology needed for itself, but that we can develop exactly our entire system of economy by seeking quality and good life and not by stopping at health and economy, but also about science and education, especially sport, and this government confirms that the system of law and health care that we will soon have on our benches to say that this is a complete system. We had a proposal for the Sport Act the other day at a public debate, and the emphasis is on public procurement and in particular on public procurement, awarding concessions, and others have to be subject to very strict regulations. It cannot happen that concessions can be given on the maritime good without applying 100 percent of all strict laws and regulations, so this reform of the proposal of the National Anti-Corruption Programme is excellent, we support and seek the mobilisation of all and make it permanent for our task daily in all segments of public administration, local self-government and the entire Croatian society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60849	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative of Nevenka Majedenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60850	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's exactly what my colleague Peronja needs is to apply this strategy. It's actually... Today in the debate, we have often heard that this strategy will be a dead letter on paper and for a reason, people thought for a reason, given that in March 2002, a National Anti-Corruption Programme with an action plan was adopted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Among other things, the programme envisaged a draft of the Assembly Committee for the Implementation of the National Programme, which was to be made up of parliamentary representatives, representatives of civil society and representatives of the public. The action plan envisioned a series of measures to combat corruption in almost all areas of public administration and economy, but neither the national programme nor the action plan was implemented, and the parliamentary commission was not established. I wonder why it wasn't founded, why? Was that program not good? Was it hard to establish a commission? Was it hard to choose a few parliamentary representatives, a few representatives of civil society or a few representatives of the public? I don't think so, but there was no desire to actually get rid of corruption, but this strategy has something else. There is something else that is not talked about, and it is not said that the Government itself has proposed the establishment of a National Council to monitor the implementation of the National Programme for the Prevention of Corruption, so this government proposes the establishment of a National Council, suggests that the President of the National Council should be of the order of opposition, and that the Council will not be operationally acting, but will assess the ways and results of the implementation of this National Programme, and I think that the way and the results of this National Programme will not be difficult. It's easy and that's why here's why you support this strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60851	Second replica, the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60852	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Peronja was mayor as far as I knew and I listened carefully to what he was saying and I welcome what he was talking about, but my colleague Peronja here is interested in me perhaps to explain to me a little when you said at the chiefship's sessions that it was of course good to be journalists that the information could be transmitted already during the same day, if not the second day. But what about the fact that there are meetings of chieftains, county, city, municipal, and government that are closed?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60853	Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60854	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, when we talk about corruption, we often talk about two kinds of situations actually. One is when a citizen is looking for something he normally has a right to, and because of a variety of circumstances, the most common lack of government work or some other school, I don't know what kind of organs he can get, so he pays to get it. This type of corruption is relatively easy to spot, relatively easy and catch... That. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It makes an impression on the character of society. Another type of corruption is that when someone wants to get something else under no regulations, something that otherwise could not have the right and which in any other way could not be obtained. For example, a grandson gets a bank, a friend gets subsidies to his private company, and he has 100,000 kuna salaries and such similar situations. It is corruption that destroys society, which destroys the economic system, which destroys the moral system because we all know it and not that anyone wants to catch it, and no one can catch it. You're untouchable. They launch a new system of values, a system of values by which the sentence "Hang on, buddy." It gets a whole other meaning than what it had during the second Tito, a whole other meaning. I'd really be happy to believe in the government's real intention to bring corruption on all means. I find that hard to believe but I would love to believe and should believe, we should all really be behind the anti-corruption programme because it is no longer a political stance, opinion of one or another. It's a matter of survival of society. Our society as a civilized, social society as it is written in the Constitution cannot survive with this level of corruption. Things are collapsing, they're going to collapse. And why it's hard to believe in honesty. Well, inside, for example, there's a conflict of interest, the Law of Conflict of Interest, but nobody even tried to mention that conflict of interest could and should be a crime. A man in conflict of interest uses his position to do something out of that position for his own benefit. It's a simple definition like this. If there's anything criminal against the state, against society, against the people, against neighbors, against friends, then that's it. The word of origin of the property was given to a certain sodium even before 15, 20, how many years were it when the origin of the property was examined. Nothing was ever questioned then, and now it's not for the same reasons as today. However, every housewive on your salary will tell you perfectly clearly that thieves can be caught by asking them if they paid their taxes. If they bought Maybach for 100,000 euros today, they had to earn 300 thousand euros last year and pay 1/3, 100,000 euros in taxes. What's in the tax cards of those people who buy these new Maybache, Labmorgie, Ferrari and so on. This has been discussed a lot in Croatia, the story and the president talked about it in the Parliament, the prime ministers also talked about it both past and present and possibly future. However, no one has even tried to get into the measure of things. Tax fraud is the biggest scam in the civilized world everywhere. Why? If you double-cross me for ten thousand kuna, you double-crossed Nikola Vuljanić and no one else. If you cheated on 10 kuna on taxes, you cheated on kindergarten, you cheated on the hospital, you cheated on the road, you cheated on everyone around you. That kind of dishonesty seems to me that this program has no intention of chasing, at least I don't see how. It says in there that the judiciary is burdened with a large number of pending cases as if it were an elemental accident. Fall into a fight, burn an unsolved object, millions of unsolved objects. Well, the cases were unsolved because they were never solved by someone who didn't solve them, and the one who didn't solve them happened to him was nothing. In a good part of the case, he did not solve them because he had material, political, or other benefits. I don't see how this program is coping with that problem. The new laws that are now being proposed and concerning healthcare we have seen the texts. In some ways, they narrow down the health care rights, narrow down the level of healthcare that will be available to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And the source of actually health corruption is just that, the level of health care. If any favors can't be reached by a normal path and at normal speed they'll pay for it. Maybe the solution is to legalize the matter so who can get to the service, who can pay will get to the service, who can't get to the service and the point so it'll pay for, say, a health fund or who. I don't see a solution to this problem in this program either. It says there is a need to strengthen trust in local and state administration and avoid political rematchism. Great, really great, and it needs to be done. Once, about seven, eight years ago, one party, it seems to me that HSP was that, he proposed a law setting out the exact level above which people are changing, under which they would not, so it would not happen now as it happens in Karlovac, say school directors are being replaced, that school boards are not being appointed because the school boards are now appointed founder. No longer will teachers choose their representatives, their parents inside, but the founder appoints them. The Founder won't name it. He's changing directors. If it's any sort of rematch, it's rematchism. In all, it seems to me that this document does not exceed a significant level of seminar work by a student in the first year. He's declaratively good, but I don't see any solutions in him. So far we've all been, all governments have been catching thieves so far. The SDP came with the coalition back in 2000 with that parole to power "we'll catch the thieves, we'll put them in jail, we'll get the money back from the Cayman Islands". None of that happened. The thieves are where they are, the money is where they are, nothing happened. Nothing like this has happened in the government of Matesha, not in the government of Eve Sanader, not in any government so far. Perhaps the moment has come for the authorities to actually threaten if you are unable to do so, then you are not the authority this people need. It's important to change the social climate and return to a one-man system of values that works in normal civilized countries, a system of values that speaks is important for the neighbor to think, what people will say about how I behave, how I live, whether when I enter the Parliament I drive in the same car, or if I bought a four-times more expensive car within a year. Such things are demoted, that kind of opinion, that kind of thinking might be under-citizen. They've been demoted and fully derogated in the 1990s. Things have been going downhill ever since. It's up to us to make as much as possible to stop that trend downhill. Namely, it does not spread the tentacles of corruption from small officials in the grants, from porters in the counties and so on. Well, then, upwards. The tentacles always go from top to bottom. It reads there, there's a screen where you can see how it works and what's worth it. If, if the government manages to make good on its own level, if the government succeeds in making moves that will be credible then it will be perfectly fine to reflect at the level that every normal citizen of this country understands. Let's look up to the Italians. One of their prime ministers ended up in exile because he was charged with co-operation with the mafia. We can never do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60855	Thank you. Replicated representative of the Crown of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60856	Your Honor, Mr. President. It is precisely the place in the Penal Code that is part of what my colleague Vuljanic was saying, and I particularly point out that the Law on conflict of interest already passed at that time is that those who share up to 25% of the company's ownership will not be in conflict of interest, the place vice versa. If they're 1% participants, then they can't assign such companies a job. Don't move on to your wife, don't transfer to law firms, and then it comes back after the term of office. And that's exactly the difference in until the aforementioned programme was adopted in March 2002. There was an emphasis on the declaration of political will. Recognising the fact that there is corruption which is a serious social problem, and this programme particularly underlines the determination of the authorities to combat corruption day and night by training the institutions of the system by applying existing laws. So I believe that this is exactly the kind of National Programme that will mobilize every day all those who want the system to really settle, and not from case to case that something changes as to who comes to mind and also for day-to-day political purposes. This is a real program, and I need you to back it up.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60857	Reply to the replica, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60858	Thank you, Mr. President. Maybe it's time we admitted both things. So that the political will that created the program that never came to life in the last term is also needed, I don't know why it didn't come back to life. I wasn't there, and I don't know why he didn't come to life, and it's bad that he didn't come to life. Of course, concrete moves need to be taken. I think the first concrete move Croatia would take if we were to talk about these places for at least a dozen places would be clear and strict tax card control and comparison of tax cards with property. If there's no luck, there's no honesty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60859	The second replica, the respected representative, Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60860	So you see a colleague you asked the question of what about the paid taxes of those who buy luxury cars and yachts? I just asked Minister Shuker a year and a half ago whether he would review the tax cards of those who at that time bought yachts and yachts worth more than EUR 50 thousand at the Split boat fair. He said he'd do it. Unfortunately, we did not come up with the data whether it was done and whether it was able to charge more taxes, but apparently because at the right car show in Zagreb that is going on sold out all the most expensive cars, and first went to Ferrari which costs not 50 but almost 300 thousand EUR, it is obvious that something in this is not right. Obviously, the institutions of the state do not function because the tax administration should automatically register when someone reports it, registers a car that is more valuable than its annual incomes and they have it on one screen. See where the tax is? Did he wash the money? Where did he pay his taxes? And protect the interest of the state. It's obviously not like that. Not only is that not the case but unfortunately we have a situation where those who do not pay taxes and contribute to their employees buy expensive cars. How is it possible for someone to pay their wages and even on their hands, not to pay taxes and contributions for months, to get from month to month tax and contributions and on the other hand to buy yachts and cars? It's obviously a big space for corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60861	Reply to the replica, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60862	... They don't even have the legal authority to do that. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] These legal powers should be given to them. When I see that step from the government, I'm going to believe that he really intends to announce real, real war on corruption. I suggest that that line be drawn tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, the second week, in 10 days. We don't need it for a year. That's what we're going to make a consensus about. In this House, we'll have a consensus on that. I have a friend at the New York University that I talked to about this topic, and he said, "You know, in America, it's no big deal making money at all. That's a yes. But the problem is spending money on black." The problem is to spend that money. If I buy a car that's above my means this afternoon, the tax collector will knock on my door. Our tax collector doesn't do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60863	Dear representative Zdenka Babic-Petricevic. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60864	Mr. President, colleague Vuljanic. I'll quote you: if there was a rematchism, it happened in exchange for the principal in the region of Karlovac. This rematchism cannot be compared to what happened after January 3, 2000, so I will give you some examples. I'll start in a row. The foreign ministry, after 3 January 2000, replaced 35 ambassadors and general consuls within 4 weeks without speaking of staff in our state offices. It has been replaced, today we heard between 180 and 200 hospital directors throughout Croatia. And not to mention a case of intelligence where no one was allowed to touch what was created in 1990 until 2000 and beyond, intelligence. You knew what was going on back then. None of your parties responded, so I answer to Mr Kapraljevic that no one is ideal, so neither we MPs nor today, when 130 intelligence officers had to, they had to take it down to the goal and see what was coming out of the house and at the entrance to the house. That was embarrassing. This was done in 2000 for intelligence services. The Ministry of Defence has removed all employees who came from the Croatian front and not from the cabinet. The brightest example of which we all are well-known in the Ministry of the Interior is illegal and inhumanely replaced people on behalf of the reorganisation of the Ministry of the Interior so 509 days here we had people who were in the chapel of St. Mark. I remember my colleagues well, my current colleague Sima Lučina. He was Home Secretary back then. I asked him a few questions. He answered, he responded falsely. So what happened between three and four years of coalition rule is unrepeated and God forbid it should happen again in the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60865	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60866	Thank you, Mrs. Petricevic. I completely agree with you. Such things are unforgivable and God never let them happen again, so why do you build them? They don't need to be built. We need to stop things once and start acting like a civilized state. The school director runs school because he's a good teacher. The hospital director runs the hospital because he's a good hospital manager. I don't care what party it's from. When we came to Karlovac in 2000, I was in the city council insisting that two directors of municipal companies from HDZ remained. I insisted on it because they're good. One of them's the mayor today, Karlovsky. They're just good. Others left because I didn't think they were good. But that was the only criterion. Let's do this criterion... in the crowd of these things. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60867	Honorable representative Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his word. Zeljko Pavlic, he's gone. He's losing his word. Jozo Topic, he's gone. He's losing his word. Luka Baby, he's gone. He's losing his word. Vesna Scare Ozbolt, she's gone. He's losing his word. Zvonimir Sabati, he's gone. He's losing his word. Ante Markov, he's gone. He's losing his word. - Turtle Kurt, here you go. He's gone. He's losing his word. Zvonimir Mršić, a respected representative, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60868	So I'd just like to really draw attention to how things should work to reduce the level of corruption of society. The debate about whether we're corrupt, the debate about how we perceive corruption, the debate about who's more corrupt than the former, present or future power is completely meaningless. It is simply a question of what the perception of citizens is about, about the degree of corruption of society and what they think about whether they can exercise their rights under the law in a clear, public, transparent and accessible way. Even this perception of corruption in society does not have to be in proportion to what the real state of corruption is. Unfortunately, at this point, we agree that citizens' perception of how they feel the corruption of society has grown, or is growing from year to year. Since 2000, from the '90s. She grew up by 2000. Then we have a decline trend, and after 2003, we have a trend in citizens' perception of corruption in society again. So it's a signal to us that we need to do something urgent. It may seem indeed in a way that the penalties of those who, whom we find to do some illegality, are to be used by their position or to acquire unjustly or unlawfully certain material resources. However, much better, much more just would be to act preventively in a way that does not even occur. We've heard here today, for example, that it worked out HITRO-HR. We also heard about the fact that land books were placed on the website, and these are some steps. But let’s also say that land books are just transferred from one medium to another medium. So, the situation in the land books as it was, that is, the problem that the land-book situation is not well transferred to another medium, so in a digital format. This may move citizens to get their final property, since ownership is not only the right. It's property and obligation. So each owner should take care of his own property, but by putting it on the website, we haven't reduced the amount of corruption in land books, i.e. in grantines. But we need to start from the top of the country. Look, we've been arguing for almost six or seven months about whether there was corruption in the sale of Lebanon or not, and unfortunately, I think we're going to be discussing it for a long time. Why? Because you can't reach a government decision on the sale of Lebanon anywhere. You can't even come to the HItro-HR, you can't even come to land books, you can't even come to the government website. You have a hole in the 3rd session of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in which the citizens and even the representatives do not know what is being made, what decisions have been made. You can't read or see a decision today about when, why and for what reasons the decision to sell the shares of the Liburia Riviera Hotel Dom Fund is lifted. If we could do that, we might have a completely different perception of this legal or unlawful business of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. But unfortunately, these and some other controversial decisions we're discussing whether there's corruption or not you can't simply find. Which means that one complete transparency of governance in this country would result in a reduction in the level of corruption. For example, it would not be explored who released the phonogram from the government session on which the debts of the Stone Ingrad were forgiven. If the government's decision had been on the website then the citizens would know that. Citizens could assess whether it was a good decision or a bad decision, but the worst part of it was, and that puts one big question as to whether there was corruption in it, in making that decision because there was no decision on the government's website, was not published anywhere, and then when the public found out about it, it went into question whether, who released the phonogram in public. So, not to justify, to explain to citizens why the decision was made, but who dared to make one decision to the government completely public, clear and transparent. If we came to the fact that everything was really clear, public and transparent, that information was fully available to citizens, that citizens could know what decisions were made and the basis of which arguments would reduce the degree of corruption. I am saddened to be here in the anti-corruption programme, for example local self-government highlighted as one of the parts of the society that is corrupt. I think the state of local self-government is much better than it is in some other levels of government. Look at the websites of our cities, look at other ways of communicating our cities with citizens, and you will see that there are no secret meetings of city heads, you will see that all decisions are published on the website so that citizens can see really the whole, which is why some decision is made and can make certain judgments about it. And all of these stories about how some of us will reduce corruption if we discover the one who abused his authority and the situation is empty. If we do not make this previous preventive side, which is to make the holders, first of all, completely transparent to the citizens, and then to those who control them, which is the legislative, or representative bodies in society. Unfortunately, neither we in the House are capable of the government following this Parliament's conclusions, but it is done either never or with a great distance of time. And that says that there may be doubt, a worm of doubt that something behind that hill is right, or that some decisions have been made in some way. This program, I think, should still experience one serious breakthrough for several reasons. First of all, I think we should do a thorough analysis of what happened to the anti-corruption programme so far. So, did it work, in which segments? Which segments isn't? Where were the obstacles? What were the failures of that program, and based on that, he should have said ok. Now we're going to do an upgrade on that. Well, it's not possible that that program didn't do anything. Some institutions have been established, BUSKOK, some laws have been passed. So this should be promoted, which are the problems in the functioning of USKOK, which are the problems in the application of the Law on Access to Public Information, on information. Look, we're getting a report here now and the government boasts that the number of requests has been reduced. You know why? Because only what has the form of a request is required. So where the citizen specifically referred to the law, the article asked for information according to that article. A huge number of information citizens have asked for without respect for that form. And the public authorities put it aside and said no, it has nothing to do with access to information. That's what we should have analyzed. We should have analyzed what other things happened in the application of the last program. In the end, this program was supposed to say one sentence at the end. On the day of this programme's adoption, it ceases to function last, as we have under some laws. This anti-corruption programme ignores what was written in the 2003/2006 programme. A year. And that's not good, and that's not good. Because yet what has been done so far has both positive and likely negative results. And based on that experience, a new programme was to be developed. The problem with this program is deadlines. You know, if it says that most of these activities will be realised by June 2006, then I don't know how it's just going to be possible, right? I don't know how to deal with everything we've had for two years, which I don't know for months to do, etc., etc. The problem with this programme is, for example, that it gives tasks to certain authorities of the state that are not in any government jurisdiction. such as the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. This programme states that the Commission should do something, and the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest is simply an independent state body to which no one should give any warrants, but it should act completely on its own. And so these are some of the reasons why I think this program should still be done. It should contain something called an action programme, but an action programme that could be identified at the level of the individual, so anyone participating in the government, regardless of whether in the executive or in the legislative authority, from the president of the state to the last councilman in the municipal council. But not only them, but all those who have a certain degree of public authority. We need to restore trust in authorities and institutions with public authority, not speak, or not convince citizens that we have found an effective programme that if we succeed in catching the one that is corrupt, we will separate it from the organization in which it is located. So, simply the whole story should turn upside down and restore citizens' trust in power. To restore citizens' trust in those whose citizens trust in the elections. Because citizens must not feel deceived on election day, citizens must not feel deceived the day after the election, nor must they feel deceived in the whole term. Where the government can be effective or inefficient. That, of course, depends on the ability of the executive authority and the legislative authority. But they must not feel deceived in a way that they are chosen, that they feel that they have chosen unfair authority. Because the government does not need to be clear and public, transparent, because the government does not need to be available in the provision of information and arguments on the basis of which the decision is made. And only when citizens begin to re-perceive that the degree of corruption in society is reduced is we will be able to show satisfaction, not in the number of arrested, not in the number of those who have been fired, but in the percentage of citizens who again, of whom we regain the confidence that power can behave fairly and responsibly. And not to come to, to go to elections and after elections to win power only and only for the purpose of achieving certain private interests. And to conclude in the end, whatever you know we can't read based on what and what decision the government made about the Liburni Riviera Hotel. You know, there's a here I think one obvious conflict of interest, if it wasn't personal about two people, and that's the Deputy Prime Minister and the owner of the Don Fund, I wouldn't have doubted the whole story yet. And since it is about persons who were in very strong business relations before the signing of the contract, even in dependent business relations, then nothing so long as we don't have to substrate all the documents, they won't be able to convince me that there was no corruption, that there was no advantage, that there was not, above all, private interests at the expense of the public interests and at the expense of the money of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60869	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60870	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here you see I would like to replicate Mr. Mršić in a way, namely one of the basic conditions of fighting corruption is among other things the transparency of the work of the state administration, and in particular tax administrations and the creation of real data records so that tax offenders can be sanctioned and one example from practice would only indicate. In fact, on one of our islands, here is a tax administration that has these days brought down renters about the solutions about the flat-rate rent tax, in a way that solutions have been given to people who have not been renting for ten years, who have already died, etc. etc. What am I saying? I mean, the tax administration doesn't have any real records of taxpayers at all, and how, then, how can she sanction someone who bought it, as counterpart Vuljanic said some expensive car, some expensive thing, she actually doesn't have records of much more banal stuff, and where do things like that happen? And as for why there is no public way actually a contract or a solution that the government sold to Liburni. Well, he's gone, he doesn't exist, because actually the government has obviously sold the hotel complex to Liburni on black, when no one actually sanctions such work. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60871	Honorable representative Valter Poropat, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60872	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I fully agree with what Mr. Mršić said, but I am interested in when we say that we want to restore citizens' trust in power. Which is why we MPs who must be an example to others, do not go first to each other to create trust with each other regardless of which party, and thus we will show those who vote for us, or citizens, in what way they trust us.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60873	Replicate response, respected representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60874	Look, my colleague, in my debate, I said that everything that we think about as agents and how much corruption is within society is, so what is the level of trust between us here in this Assembly room? What is important is that citizens have confidence in us, that we are not here of some private interest, but that we are really, as the name tells us, representatives of the public interest, the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia is, and in that, of course, we must do everything to make sure that what we are doing here is clearly and publicly presented to them, so that they know the basis for which arguments we have made the decisions, in order to know who voted. You know, in public today very often goes the Croatian Parliament has passed some law, MPs have voted something, unfortunately there are laws I have not voted for because I think they are bad. It is therefore that the Croatian Parliament passed the law, but it would be good for citizens to know who represented their interests and voted on what law. I was against it, for example, to abolish the compensation for transporting sick children up to 100 kilometers, even as loud as we were here. I have asked from the Assembly speakers to abolish the Water Contribution Regulation, and in public it is said that parliamentary deputies have passed the law, and the government has passed such a regulation. Yes, yes, Mrs. Sučec-Tracostanec, here I said that this would be imposed beyond the municipal contribution and asked the Government to abolish that regulation, and in particular to abolish the water contribution to the investments financed from the budget, because if Croatian waters need a transfer from the budget then it would be transparent to be a state budget item rather than to be financed by the payment of water contribution through investments.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60875	Thank you. Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60876	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I have to say that if some things don't change in this national programme, I don't know if I'm going to be able to vote for it in this form as presented to the representatives for adoption. I will begin with a sentence that is actually the only "bolded", an enhanced sentence in this national programme and which says this: As a result, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament have so far taken a number of measures and a number of amendments to the laws that have brought Croatia's legal system into line with the acquis of the European Union, as well as the implementation of the constitutional principle of rule of law have acted to combat corruption. I have already said in some of my replicas that I simply cannot agree that nothing has been done before 2004, or that the National Anti-Corruption Strategy and the Action Plan is mentioned, but it is said that they have not been implemented, but it is said in this report here, and we have had the opportunity to make sure that when we answer questions to the international community, we are very much used also by what has been done in these years before this government came to power, and there are some 28 laws, which are legal amendments, which the previous government has done, and if what this government has done here is these few things that are set out below, then I will definitely say that it is not enough. Of course, ask why some laws, i.e. amendments and additions of certain laws, were not mentioned here in the final line, starting with the amendment and addition of the Law on Public Procurement, the Implementing Law, the Law on the Court Register where, in my opinion, they are essentially just additionally open opportunities for corruption and absolutely do not have any anti-corruption action, and the laws as such, therefore, according to what they contain should have just that. Furthermore, why do I find this program not credible? First, it is not credible in me, my colleague Mršić spoke of it before me, among other things, because of the deadlines set here. It's the same for me, I think, according to what it says in this program, that the deadlines are as if they're only given to satisfy someone. And in some of the things that I consider to be extremely important, as well as the part relating to the Treasury and the question of the state budget, the deadline is given by June 2007. Furthermore, there are also some things in this national programme that are essentially incorrect or that are said to be done and in fact this Parliament has already done. For example, I will take the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest where it says in one part, so in the introductory parts you say that we are somewhere in April of the month, I think the last amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, where this Law has spread to the fact that we must therefore make a statement on how to acquire property. And here, when you talk about preventing conflicts of interest on page 9, you say, you need to analyse the existing Law that prescribes the process of reporting property to state officials and involve local administration officials and self-government officials. I think that's what we have today, including the obligation to report the way the property was acquired. So, you've listed something here that's already been resolved by existing laws. A few sentences about the individual segments of this program. Justice. When it comes to what to prevent and combat corruption would be necessary to do, I also think there are certain things being said here, I would say purely to speak. And it seems to me that if there was nothing else in the debate that we had about the proposal for reforming the judicial system, we had different tables, but we had different figures. To speak again about the need to analyse the burden of courts with the number of pending cases, to deploy from more burdened to less-loaded courts. In each court, to determine the number of cases in which the proceedings are long, to analyse the way so far laid down by the judges, etc. It seems to me that this is repeated from the document to the document, and I will agree with all those who have also noticed here today. Citizens today don't really care how many cases are pending in some court, how many cases are there, some cases of 10 or more years. They're primarily interested in how this government or who's supposed to sanction judges. Because someone has led to certain actions being years old. Some judges have been reluctantly led to a large number of pending cases or we have objects that have gone out of date. If the public does not see clearly the possibility and certain sanctions against individuals in that judiciary because, of course, the entire judiciary does not, then what the citizens are writing here will not convince us that we are ready to deal with corruption in the area of justice. Health care. I have to say it like this. It's really not clear to me anymore. Until yesterday, we said that a health reform proposal was coming to Parliament with a follow-up, so a health reform strategy with accompanying laws, etc. And it seems to me that we have this package somewhere in the next few days at the end of this session on the agenda. As of yesterday, it's supposed to be not a reform, but it's kind of a slight change. This National Programme proposal discusses how health reforms should be prepared, etc., etc. I have to say that this health issue, health reforms, the need to change the amendments to certain laws we've been talking about for several years. This government has come out in the last year and a half or two years with so many suggestions in this House, in front of the public. So many proposals she withdrew when the public responded, when the unions disagreed, the second time the doctors disagreed, the third time the citizens disagreed that I actually had to say that regarding this preparation of the project of thorough health reform, etc., I'm actually wondering who in that government would do it. Politics, public administration, political parties. When we talk about political parties, I think it is not enough for this document to say that it is necessary to establish a commitment in the control of the financing of political parties, i.e. that it is necessary to pass a special law on the financing of political parties, which will prescribe possible sources of funding for political parties and more closely set aside the means allowed. Well, I think it should say that it has to be determined, so what are these possible sources of funding for political parties and precisely determining the funds. How many of which individual parties can get from. Secondly, it must be stated here that political parties are required under certain terms, but if they do not do so, there will be sanctions. To substrate public information on how many donations they received during the campaign, and these amounts are real, and they are not about to make fun of the public. I remind you that even today we haven't received any information on how much in reality it cost individual presidential campaigns, or by the vice president of this government and how many donations and who made all donations to finance this campaign. And I will end up with this because I find this extremely important, and that is yes, I will return to the Ministry of Finance, on that date on 30 June 2007, because this is the deadline until which, please, I will draw up a strategy for managing the State Treasury and, accordingly, amend and supplement the State Budget Act and the Law on the implementation of the state budget in order to improve the planning, enforcement, and control and monitoring of the implementation of the state budget. I politely ask someone to answer me why this takes a full year and a half? Why and for this obligation is not, for example, a deadline and at least September 2006 to have, in accordance with this, a debate on the budget that will most likely be held in the election year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60877	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60878	So it is an incorrect allegation that an esteemed colleague has said that the newly adopted or amended executive law and the Law on the Court Register encourages corruption. Absolutely incorrectly, these two laws speed up the process of enforcement, i.e. enrolment in the court register and have nothing to do with fostering corruption in any sense, and your question is how will the government sanction judges speak for themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60879	Okay. Replica, respected representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60880	Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues have inspired me to present my colleague Sobol in that section concerning regulations on preventing conflicts of interest. It seems to me that the current regulations do not perceive which categories of what we would say are greater, and which are smaller and then quite non-discriminatoryly applied these measures, so we often see that the parliamentary representatives are targets and the media and I don't know who all about interest, but our corruption potential dares to say is not specific while on the other hand I think there's a reason to think about the judiciary, I don't like to generalise, I don't think that the judiciary in general is corrupt, there are individuals who are corrupt, who should therefore be prevented from considering that they enter the same regime in which we and others are... Because they are government officials and I recommend or appeal to our minister to think a little bit about whether the application of origin of property and property should apply only to newly elected judges, I have heard that there is such an interpretation because for him I do not seem to have an insinuation either in law or in what is called Racio legis. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60881	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60882	I agree with my colleague, Josipovic, with what you said in your replica. When I was talking about the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, I went to the part that says it has to be done here, and in fact it's already defined. I particularly agree with this part of which you are talking about judges, that is, in the area of justice. I'm going to use this to say in the phonogram exactly, I did say Government, but then I said to whoever should take care of it about judges. I think that's exactly how it is in the phonogram.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60883	Dear Representative Mario Zubovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60884	Mr. President, Mrs. Sobol has criticised the whole of this law, and according to it, he is completely missed and gone, she has found no word that this law could bring any good. That's why I'd like to say a few things to Mrs. Sobol, which is why this law can be to prevent it. First of all, I would like to say, I was saying this morning that Mr Sobol is a EUROHERC employee, not he is an employee of EURO Leesing, but the owner of both EUROHERC and EURO Leesing is the same person. Right? You jumped that it wasn't, and now I've managed to find that it's the same owner of both companies. He says here, in 2004, the MUP had to carry out a series of checks for writing in the paper: "Lucin's personnel under investigation for buying speedboats and expensive carpets." He says, "The expensive carpets were obtained by Mr. Sobol as assistant interior minister by direct contract from the company he was the founder of. Together with the head of the Department of Material and Financial Affairs, Mr. Akrak organised the purchase of 4m-euro speedboats from the Italian shipyard through the direct contract procedure of Rijeka with one bidder despite the unemployment of domestic shipbuilders." Here, maybe with this law of such things we'll be less, and I can read more if I have to.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60885	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Gordan Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60886	First of all, Mr Zubovic and after all the day you didn't realize it wasn't about the law, it was about the National Programme proposal. That's what someone warned you today. Furthermore, I didn't use the words you used when you replicated to me when I was talking about this program. I was talking about something that I think should be complemented or modified, or that things in here should be concreteized otherwise I can't raise my hand for this program. So, I think I've tried to argue with the proposal for a program, and since you mentioned my husband, former assistant at the Ministry of the Interior today, and what you're reading, they obviously gave you. My husband like this, thanks to this authority of yours, he's been to some sort of 10 informed conversations. In the last 2 and a half years, this government has controlled every company with which the coalition government in the MUP has done any work, including those with which it worked before 2000. If anything has been found regarding my husband's actions I again and from this pay phone, please let the authorities of this country do their job. Until then, until criminal charges are raised, until my husband is determined whether or not he is my husband, this way will be just the politics and harassment of my husband, me and my entire family without any arguments and evidence and I stand behind what I just said.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60887	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60888	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. What about the National Corruption Prevention Programme? What's the reason we're discussing him today? That's the first question in front of each of us. I have my answers, and I'm going to try to bring them out because those answers point to both the quality of the material and these differences that we see among ourselves today. You see, when the Croatian citizens' assessment of politicians was that in addition to the problem of personal dissatisfaction with the standard and security in Croatia, they were dissatisfied and the first signal to the Croatian government was that corruption existed, that corruption was growing and that citizens were not satisfied with how corruption is handled. That was the first signal. The second signal was the citizen ratings that said what they thought about today's government, what they think about today's parliamentarians, what they think about today I'd tell the officials and the judicial authorities, and probably the employees or managers of the firm. And they're more negative, more negative. By estimating that the Prime Minister, Mr Ivo Sanader, is very well followed by what the citizens think, the answer is what is ahead of us. Therefore, this is the political response of the man who received clear messages from the public we are dissatisfied. One of the important things about our dissatisfaction is the situation and the relationship of all three authorities to the battle to stop corruption. And that's why in the third year of Mr. Ivo Sanader's term, we're discussing it today. Because he finally became aware of the dissatisfaction of the citizens that the flaw is the main of this document. The political message of the Croatian government of Mr. Ivo Sanader, and that's all that's happening, is the former government, nothing has been done, we have no results, and here's a rescue message from today's government. These are the political messages sent to us by the Prime Minister, the Croatian Government, and that is the weakness of this document. This is the weakness of this document, because simply in the seriousness of the document is always a certain analysis. Here you have on page 3 a very short analysis. In March 2000, the National Programme with the Action Programme and Communication was adopted, the National Programme and the Action Plan were not implemented. They haven't been spent for a while. True, the second paragraph says that the first programme was a fundamental emphasis on showing political will to be counted with one evil in Croatia. So don't argue. There is evil, so we thought in 2002 there is and we want to deal politically with this evil and the truth so in that assessment it says a greater focus is given to establishing legislation that will try to form institutions to fight this social evil. That's what it says in this material. We will not deal with the laws today, although we will not deal with this material because it has been passed and established institutions but not all of them, but not all of them, and not all of them are mentioned here, which is constantly today and mentioned that we have not established it so far. But I'm mentioning this third year of the government's term of office of Mr. Ivo Sanader, and of course we'll be more effective at law enforcement, so I guess we'll send a message to the citizens. And that's what's worth it. More efficient in conduct. So we'll be more successful. That's true, and now you're saying why we're not together. And the messages are clear. It wasn't planned, it wasn't an organised government performance, but these are messages and answers to the negative opinion of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which is quite justified and, of course, a very clear message is all the former guilty, and we will try to solve it. Of course, with such political messages sent by Mr. Ivo Sanader, he can't correspond, and that's why we have these polemic tones today. We have this kind of discussion because it just can't be on one occasion. He can't. It is therefore necessary to pass the laws. The laws should establish institutions and, of course, show the efficiency of the Government in implementing these laws and I would say the efficiency of these institutions. And of course, if we'd written the documents like that, we'd probably have had a different political understanding today. We of the opposition, we in the SDP, are very clear. It's no problem if you want to fight the battle yourself. If you don't want political cooperation, you don't need it. But we're also ordering don't disrespect the results of the former government. There's miss, there's miss. Today we heard extraordinary debates from fellow MPs who said and the former government did something. That's not what the government of Eve Sanader says in this material. It's a tragedy. That's why I was particularly pleased to listen to these very messages of reasonable people in a position that we say we can't defile our predecessors to find compromises for a battle against an evil. And if that's a little or a big evil, that's where we're different. For some of my colleagues, that's not too bad. I am the person who was in the executive power and I estimate that for Croatia the most dangerous organised crime and that there is in Croatia and that a good deal of it knows many of the parliamentary representatives, and they also know it in power. The Minister knows that, although she is very short in office, organized crime is not mentioned here. The battle against this organised crime is not even put into an important subtitle. You can't put it on. Likewise, we did not discuss the matter significantly today. If there really is an organized crime, how much he's drawn into power as he is in the judiciary. We don't mention it either, and if it's in the government and the judiciary, can we just solve it with more efficient existing institutions? My message is we can't. We need to change institutions. Did we talk about this today? Do we have that here? We don't. Here's just the latest example of the ugly political message we're sending to the public. Mr. Bajic prepares and wants to press charges against the former president of the court. The Minister doesn't appoint him. The basic information is the State Judicial Council does not remove immunity, does not remove immunity. That's what we know in Parliament. We have written laws on how they will be handled in criminal proceedings against irresponsible judges, presidents. You don't remove immunity. Is that what we're worried about? Gentlemen, how are we going to process them if the body we've established by law does not remove the immunity. Is it an apparent bribe, corruption in the judiciary where one body does not remove immunity when the State's Attorney's office initiates proceedings, and we here in the Parliament say we will remove immunity whenever the crime is a crime of abuse of official office. He's not taking it off. Which is the consequence, so imagine the current judge raising today a criminal case against the state's attorney whom we appointed 15 days ago and commended him. Not just that. From the former president of one court, another court, former officials, everything is muddy, accusing everything. What if a citizen knew, which is true, who would know the truth more. But I'm asking us here in the Parliament if we're aware of what's going on. And imagine if there was really organized crime and someone in the judges took part in it. Are we now concerned with organised crime and said gentlemen institutionally and not satisfied with what is changing in the judiciary? Nothing changes. And yet, our judge, if he is part of organized crime, if he has misused his position, we will not be able to resolve him because we see that the existing institutions are not functioning. We don't discuss it. That's where the government didn't offer us. What I object to, President Ivo Sanader has not called the State Judicial Council, but we have further affairs. Believe me, that's how you gain trust with the citizens we probably won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60889	Thank you. Replica, respected deputy president Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60890	Mr. Representative Slavko Linic mentioned in his debate that the government was too late to adopt a strategy to fight corruption until the third year of office. I will mention that the former government adopted the same strategy with the same title after two years and two months in power, so I don't know why it waited two years and two months, and this government brought in two years and three months later. The difference is a month. So what makes it here now if we accept that the government was late. Well, she wanted to see the effects of your proposals because she proposed the programme in 2002. For another year and a half she was in power, so we looked at the effects, collected these results, and when we looked at it in one complete action and effects, she concluded that she should go with the new programme and that this new programme should be implemented not as some campaign after the central committees, the central committees and so on for 50 years, and then nothing but to be one synchronised, harmonised action of all elements of the legal system and all elements of the social and all social forces in the fight against corruption. So, the government calls everyone to joint action. The bickering and listing of certain gaps, certain inconsistencies in the past and present will not lead us to do so but will only in fact undo the efforts that this government proposes to the Croatian Parliament to bring and thus actually launch a synchronised and comprehensive action in society.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60891	Reply to the replica, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60892	Comrade Baby, very clearly in this document it says, and I'll read it again. While the emphasis on that first programme was law-making is now the first-class importance of law enforcement. What does that mean? That the laws were passed. It would be correct to write in this material signed by Ivo Sanader when the law was passed. Thirty laws we can give you, and I'd say the documents count both the former authorities and maybe these authorities. Therefore, something has been adopted, different strategies have been and no one disputes that you are now trying to say you will be more effective in law enforcement. But you can't talk about our union in battle unless you admit that thirty laws have been passed because you can't act and enforce laws unless you've passed them and you say who brought them. And here you're saying that the former government didn't bring it. That's what you said because you're writing that the national program wasn't implemented. And they had different national programs. And on the other hand, the HDZ Club, starting today's debate, did not discuss this document. The HDZ Club was involved I would say by justifying certain doubts about the current government and by justifying the proceedings and I would say the same by calling the former leaders. He did not say he would require the Croatian government to process any illegality of the former leader of the coalition government. He didn't say that because that would already be the contribution of the HDZ Club. There's a basic problem. You want conflicts and obviously your goal is not to realize this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60893	Dear Representative Shemso Tankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60894	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of fellow MPs! Today I had a chance to really hear a lot of words, a debate about the phenomenon of corruption. And indeed, there have been extremely constructive discussions, as well as those that can be classified into what is called politics. All my predecessors who have expressed their desire to reduce the level of corruption in Croatia are in some way my contemporaries but also the desire to provide only one side with a fight against corruption and the other only give negative attributes, that is something that I cannot support in any way. I'd like to remind you of a detail in my biography. I started working as a high school professor in Zagreb back in 1968. And I remember my director when he took me in, he asked me some questions, and he mostly asked me what I thought about bribery and corruption. And I'm like a young, up-to-date professor and I said, "I'm saying I'm against that model." And then my good Professor Mirko Sagrak, rested his soul and God's blessing reminded me of a detail that there was never in human history a society in which there was to a lesser or greater extent what we today call bribery and corruption. He told me once that the emperors had daughters or sons marrying some of their opponents to get them. If they had certain lands, they gave possessions to good military leaders to be those who would support his authority and many other useful examples. Today, some have also cited examples, examples of lands that can be our role model. But they forgot one formula. And if we take Iceland, Finland, New Zealand, Denmark, Singapore, Sweden and so on, then we have to add one sentence that these are the least corrupt countries. So already that formula itself says and there is corruption present only thank God that it is significantly, significantly smaller than some other countries. I ask myself why Finland and Iceland and New Zealand are so little corrupt? Is there any desire for us to go there and ask what you've done and what should we do to change the situation with us? Also reading today, I read that Estonia, France, Hong Kong, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Nigeria, Qatar, Taiwan and Turkey have made significant moves in the fight against corruption in recent years. Do any of you have a need, need to ask yourself what they did? Is there anything we can do to change the situation? My answer is clear: It can be done. I don't know if I have one, one, one illustration. You can today identify those activities where corruption is most discussed. Political corruption is reality. Today, we have heard countless examples of this. That's what you can talk about. But it's not just political corruption that can bother us. Perhaps it has a more significant share because if corruption is present in politics then it will produce corruption and a whole series of other activities, other activities. What I am most certainly interested in as a university professor is the situation, the extent to which corruption is present in school, high school? I assure you, colleagues, that there are a number of predictors who simply tell you today is a better situation than it was yesterday. Or vice versa. Therefore, all we need to do is speak out loud and clear about it. Of course corruption is not, corruption is not solved by words. She's dealing with practical activity. I don't think I'm going to say anything new when I say that in my time one of the greatest American gangsters has been solved because the tax, tax police have put that term on the other side of the lock. So there's a way to solve it. But since I represent one smaller group, I must immediately say that yesterday in Ljubljana, I was present in Ljubljana on the stands of Milan Kucan. He invited me to be in the stands because my "reis" Mustafa Ceric participated in the event and it was the theme "Slovenia and Islam". And then a friend of mine I haven't seen in a long time, he objected to me. He objected to me that I, as a politician, was corrupt. That's the theme, Mr. Shakespeare, that I have to talk about. I asked him, "What makes you say I'm politically corrupt?" And he said to me, "You're in the Parliament and I've seen you for a long time, I haven't seen you speak for the Bosniak minority who chose you and who in some way expects you to have them deal with the government of Dr. Ivo Sanader you finally solve." Well, maybe that's why I got red and decided to talk about it today. Maybe that friend of mine is right. Maybe I haven't really discussed some issues with Mr. Shakespeare or Mr. Sanader in a long time. So I'm using the opportunity to find out that the 2001 census and the way the Bosniak minority was played was literally one of the biggest political corruptions in this area where the Bosniak national minority paid for it. When you 20 thousand members of a minority tear away, then know that you are reducing its number and reducing the chance that it as a minority speaks authenticly of its rights, of its desires and of its needs. And that's why I'm saying here on this occasion I'm going to support this law because I'm going to be loyal to supporting the government of Dr. Ivo Sanader, but I believe that others will consider what their obligations are to me as a parliamentary representative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60895	Thank you. Final review, Minister. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] How do you do? You didn't speak? Yes, yes, yes, that's because you went to meet the Georgian president. Dear Vice-President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60896	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. In fact, the problem of corruption is very difficult to talk about because it has more meaning and more reach on our occasions. It can be spoken of from an economic aspect, legal, moral, if you want psychologically, because corruption when it appears in the forms that appear in us is actually beginning to be the basis that crushes, disintegrates or breaks the system and brings and becomes if you want the cancer of the wounds and democracy and rule of law. She has her samples, she has her condition, the consequences. She should have the means and control of her suppression. But why am I talking like this? Because it is possible to view corruption as individual social behavior where an individual appears in a corrupt state, or in this context of corruption, is, if we can say so, when an official or an official requests or receives a gift or any other benefit, or has received a promise, gifts or other benefits to carry out an official action that is not, which should not be carried out or not carry out an official action that would have to be carried out, simplifiedly. But you know when there's a big problem? The biggest problem arises when so-called. structural forms of corruption, or as some, such as Professor Saio, call it clientelistic corruption, which is related to ensuring within the system that different forms of action are provided in which the cartridge assists the client and through corrupt or subsidising him in one way or another, either by this or by that benefit, to achieve certain benefits. Of course this patron can be not an individual, but she is any individual, but one individual who has political power and authority, or I don't know a group of individuals whether the government of any party, or any system as such. And let me say a few words to this other one. The question arises whether it was possible to do such consequences in the conversion and privatisation that the revision will determine that 95% of the privatisation and conversion has been done in an illegal way without actually talking about the permanent form of structural corruption. Whether there were colleagues and it was possible and it happened that a little, little in the public opinion, arises as an individual case, a particular legal person or a company that has been through a system of forgiveness, debt or postponement of the payment of a business tax, contribution or due claims, in fact to which it has favoured the damages of all others including the social and state community. The question arises whether it can be called differently than structural corruption is actually a situation where x number of legal entities can get privileges on the titles of tax and contribution delays, and many others cannot. In particular, the question arises when the political dimension of belonging or support to the ruling party's policy or ruling coalition is added. Then, in such a situation, it is quite clear what it is. It is a similar situation when dealing with housing loans, etc., and then a specific legal issue opens up whether we can speak in such a situation without ignoring the facts. And we have legal regulations, as I'm talking to the system, not just laws that contain, among other things, such a solution that allows selective interpretation to be applied on the same case, or on the same cases, different application of the same law, which we also had cases of court rulings. We spoke of it in the Parliament, though in the previous assembly of the Parliament. The question that at the same time the implementing rules say in the people is the law, but there is a change, amendment and addition of the law, so the enforcement regulation is stronger than the law, and then the administrations and bodies and officials, i.e. co-authors, act according to the implementing rules, and not by law and in such a situation, are actually systemically appropriate in certain cases. Let's just take these famous contribution regulations that we've all had cases to see. Furthermore, let us remember what economic control really means by the political authority of the economic operator. Through various institutions from the boards of directors, to the issue of whether and to what extent does that mild form of possible corrupt relationship of conflict of interest appear here. It is a far greater problem when these same persons fail to do something in their duties to enable them to perform a certain advantage or benefit to a belonging group or company or to a particular activity. In particular, the issue is that in such cases, more and more frequently it appears that state authorities are practically as representatives of administrative or administrative organisations with public authority rather than acting as the law requires them and in no way different they are starting to act as they are not prohibited by law, and that is something that is far wider power and that belongs to actually economic subjectivity, etc. Of course, that segment opens up and in itself is the issue of conflict of interest whether we could and should have tied up I don't know so far about officials, tomorrow perhaps for the state administration, the day after tomorrow we announce for judges etc. And what about the conflict of interest when we within the system of law open up the possibility of touch points of conflict of interest that we now have? For example, that county and mayors can also be representatives at the same time, and, of course, when discussing the budget on specific funds co-financed by local self-government units have a practical impact on who... Income spillage. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thus, these are things that speak clearly in themselves, as is the particular issue that is needed to ask how and how to bring the situation to management. That the administration did not implement as it has been known to say these past 15 years state policy, but to implement the Constitution, the law and the regulations of this country, to be professional, responsible, quick and effective. These are things that need to be discussed openly and should be discussed in that segment. Well, in order to discuss that, we have to... The question must be asked how it is possible to have an average salary of 4000 760 kuna in Croatia today, while at the same time being aware that all research shows that for an existential minimum it takes a little less than 6 thousand kuna for an average family in Croatia for an existential minimum and minimum needs in education, education and hygiene and to claim that people are satisfied. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So these people have to get into the gray economy and they have to act on the principles of the former system, be it pal or sir, and that's exactly where it's offered, forced, forced to act in a way that, as an official, accepts or expects a bribe, or some kind of gift, benefit, etc. Because there's some store that won't do which one of the laws has to do, or some other store will do that he shouldn't do by law to gain that benefit. I have to, these are objective circumstances we have to take care of. Of course this is a question now whether it's actually possible to talk about dual morality. So it's possible to record these issues from that point of view, to see, to solve, because things can't be eliminated without an objective situation where we're objectively and subjectively all together. What's the problem with this national program? He somewhat recorded the situation very shallowly, somewhat prescribed possible measures or other words he deals with reminders. But the basic problem that needs to be solved on this issue is actually the question of how to solve the causes if therapy is not enough just to punish or prescribe a new law, we will re-enter legal normativeism where we think that by law and by passing the law we will solve everything. The law should be a means to address this, but it cannot be solved, and therefore it should be fully aware that both economic and other measures need to be taken to resolve certain matters. The situation of King Joseph’s dealings with corruption in his day is also well - known. For a year and a half, he had his inspectors follow who and how much he takes in certain businesses where the public administration and public authorities are taking an additional salary over to do the jobs and services they regularly needed to perform for which they were paid. When he found this after that he prescribed and raised his salary, he introduced both payment classes and everything else, but for God's sakes, who was later caught in a corrupt act, not only was he punished for losing his service but he stayed and ended up in cacamates and other dragon penalties. So the situation is very serious, we need to be fully aware of it and what is most dangerous in which we are now, that is the question that our corruption, apart from this social individual behavior, has acquired this structural dimension and therefore we need to take all measures to actually eliminate it as a phenomenal social community, not just an individual within the social community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60897	Thank you. And Emperor Peter the Great began to build gallows all over Russia not explaining why he was building those gallows, but it was clear to everyone that he was building them for those of the naked man from the auditors of the dead soul and for potential corrupters or as he would say... Final review, Justice Minister Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60898	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here I am, first of all, thanking everyone who participated in this debate. It is difficult after a day-long debate in which there have been flat-rates, the judgment in which there has been and inaccuracy is difficult to deny it all in this final address, but certainly in these assessments and in the answers of fellow MPs, some things have been clarified and crystallised. I'd agree if it wasn't good and how some fellow MPs say we're looking for a conflict. No, we're not looking for a conflict, we're asking together to continue the fight against corruption that she started with her former government programme with her 2002 strategy. All tasks and all the programmes outlined in this strategy have not been met and therefore the Government here brings a new strategy for the upcoming period and as it is said that the former strategy has been focused on showing political will and creating a primarily legislative framework, and that this national programme will differ in that it will focus on implementing the law and on fulfilling clearly certain tasks with holders of these tasks and deadlines. It is clear that when it is said that these laws will be focused on it that someone has brought in part, and in part since not all the laws provided for in the 2002 strategy are not all laws adopted which are foreseen, it is left to establish the need and assess the need for legislation. What is said several times in today's debate and what would like to clarify the truth, is that this government gives one assessment when speaking to the local public, and one assessment gives when addressing international institutions. I don't know what's been read, I don't know what's been read here, but clearly I'm here reading a progress report or progress on a Brussels port in November 2005 where it says: There is still a new national anti-corruption strategy that should be inherited by the National Anti-corruption Programme of 2002. It is essential that the new Multi-annual Strategy to combat corruption and the Action Plan be implemented decisively to avoid ineffective implementation that connects to the current programme. The lessons learned from the implementation of the 2002 programme should also be learned. Attention should be paid to the high degree of political corruption as well as to preventing corruption and raising awareness of the negative impact of corruption, including the impact on the investment climate. Also, in order to better monitor corruption, a comprehensive statistical methodology is needed. This much from the report to the European Union. So I see nothing that is different from what is said in this strategy in front of the Croatian public. It's also been said more than once about how... International has, his examination gives spectacularly good reviews in public perception of corruption, or better grades in 2000 compared to previous and again bad this 2005. [[You don't understand.]] The truth is, I would say that the state of corruption in the perception of the public has been established and clearly said that it is bad in this strategy, and almost or very similar in the 2002 strategy. But what happened? In 2002, there was a change of government, a completely different political option. People who were burdened with awareness and feeling of high levels of corruption expected, and I convey this to our leader "Transparency International" here in Croatia, Mr Petrovic, who said it was a logical perception of the public because then expectations are very high. And as you can see, already in 2001, we fell on that scale, or improved in public perception by almost 23 places. Clearly, there could have been no concrete shifts in that period and nothing that would have really happened. There was a public perception because the results were expected. And as you can see, these results were good until 2002 when they were dropping and they climbed again and then since 2002, we've been growing again by 8 places on that scale since 2003. In order to stop that 8-seat growth from growing from 3 seats in 2005. So, a bit of that trend, the trend is going down, and it stops how by law enforcement then passed, by passing some new laws. And here, we hope if we stick together to the job that this trend to the satisfaction of our citizens will decrease. I want to make it clear that this government respects the perception of the public whether the scales of corruption are really that big or just that of the public. It is important for us to reduce this perception because we have made it clear that we do not want the impotence of Croatian citizens in front of institutions. So I think we should accept this government strategy. She's operational, she's not just writing something just to write, which accidentally overlaps in two strategies. So in the government's strategy that was adopted as a document of the government's reform of the judiciary confirmed by this House and here I consider nothing wrong because part of the justice strategy are also anti-corruption measures. So I think what we wrote about how we're going to implement anti-corruption measures isn't just something to write because otherwise we could write a political will that we want to eradicate corruption or reduce it almost a point. So it's not a point. We have to say in what way we consider it. By our judgment, this strategy is more operational and less demagogue, if you will, I dare say maybe from the first one. But maybe now we've learned how to do more operational and better to do homework and deadlines. I'm going to try a few more things now that I've remembered that have been referred to as exact questions. I'll start with Mr. Letica's question about the authorship of this text. It's about whether or not it's worth it to anyone. He's not getting paid or anything. At the beginning of my presentation, I said how it came about, how this text came about. So, originally from the expert working group and then with additions to the anti-corruption measures of individual ministries. And this is the government document that's right here in front of you. It was also a matter of deadlines. Some are too short, some too long. I would say that these are the deadlines and measures the government has assessed that it can objectively execute, that it can implement them within those deadlines. The Treasury is particularly asked why the treasure strategy needs a deadline by 2007. Because of the Department of Finance's assessment that this job will take so long. We do not want to set a deadline that we will not be able to maintain, and what is important is that the treasury works and that in one place control the course of the budgets already now. There's something else that's very important to say because it's been mentioned here twice. And these are the property cards of the judges, and it was particularly apostrophe that it was my interpretation as the minister of justice. I certainly believe that colleagues and colleagues who are also lawyers in the field know that the rule of law of the minister cannot be amended or derrogated by law. This here Dom passed a law that said the judges were obliged to attach property cards 30 days after their appointment to office. And it also says that in the rulebook that detailed the pattern. No interpretation of the minister or minister can derogate the legal provision. I agree that she is not the happiest and I will personally propose to amend the law that will regulate this problem in the final, transitional and final provisions. But we certainly know that I, in the rulebook, have determined anything else to have objections and probably also disputes of administrative and otherwise. So, uh, clearly I couldn't. Therefore, it is not a matter of any interpretation of the minister nor of the minister to interpret it contrary to the provisions of the law. And as I see more counsel Gajic here talking in the section that says about judicial reform, it's not enough to computerize the judiciary. That it won't stop corruption. Certainly not. It's just one of the measures that will help, which will lead to that. And we've heard that they don't often have judges of civic and professional courage to make a decision. I agree with this and therefore as one of the main programmes and in this strategy and in the strategy of judicial reform, we have established the activities of the judicial academy and permanent education, both professional and ethical education and education for responsibility in action. And so I don't need a colleague, Radosha, or I don't know who mentioned it, and I apologize if it isn't him, to be strange why education is in the department of justice and the Supreme Court's tasks. Because it's not about scientific education. It is about permanent education with work precisely in this ethical sense, the sense of responsibility and expertise. And likewise, there were still a lot of speeches on the election of the President of the Courts, and I stress that this Croatian Parliament, in the term of office of this Government, amended the law in such a way as to say that now the decision to appoint the President of the Court must be reasoned, so it is strange that there is the Minister of the former Government when the provisions were to appoint the Presidents of the Court without the duty of reasons. I claim that each appointment has been made on the basis of objective criteria and analysis of the work of the applicants reported. And finally, I agree with Mr Linic and everything he spoke about in the papers that certainly do not use the Croatian judiciary, but I do not think it would be good for the prime minister as executive authority to call out and say what the State Judiciary Council, which was chosen by this independent body by this Parliament according to the precise procedure and by the strict proposals of science and justice, so no one, according to the authorised applicants, has been chosen by this body by this Croatian Parliament and it is an independent body, it would not be good for the prime minister to order him to do what he needs to do, but they can agree with the reviews presented. Here, ladies and gentlemen of MPs, I propose and appeal that we all support this strategy together, not to be offended whether or not something is mentioned or not, the implications are mentioned because I repeat we would not have to implement laws that someone has not passed, us or the previous government, clearly all in order to fight corruption which is a great evil, we make it clear and we clearly say that we want to, and will want for sure every next government that we have citizens who will not feel powerless in the face of political legislative, judicial, economic systems or any other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60899	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a national anti-corruption programme 2006 to 2008. The program text debate is over. The amendments were submitted by the SDP representative club. State Secretary Snjezana Bagic will be shown about the proposed amendments. Amendment number one.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60901	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Government does not accept the proposed amendment, Amendment 1. I guess he needs an explanation. The proposed amendment proposes to include in the assessment of the situation and the "Transparency International" data in 2001. In the light of this amendment, the amendment states that they are accompanied by incomplete data, i.e.... incorrect data. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is clear that you can talk about what is considered complete data. In an assessment of the problem, the government said the following. The relevant international research shows different levels of corruption in the Republic of Croatia. In this assessment and assessment of the situation, the Government has not been more detailed in these relevant international researches by conceptualising the proposal for a programme and assessing what should be entered into its content. Not thinking about it and not wanting to ignore them and underestimate them or forget them. In addition, they are listed in the national programme in 2002. So there were more data, there was also this data which is now required to be entered into this national programme, but it was nevertheless said that despite the fact that this place is better said that research continues to show that Croatia's rating is relatively low. Starting from that, therefore, and not neglecting these researches, they are also available, they are known to everyone, what was important and highlighted in this programme, which is that public perception, the perception of Croatian citizens is such that corruption is present. And that's what it is, it needs to be valorized and taken into account. So, without reducing these international research, not repeating what has already been said several times and what is available elsewhere, the emphasis is on, starting with this perception on concrete measures and the prevention of corruption. Therefore, the Government does not accept the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60902	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, a respected representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60903	Now, here's the deal. If the SDP had offered incorrect information, so you wouldn't include it in this strategy, then I would understand. The SDP has offered the exact information that you deliberately kicked out of this strategy because it shows what? It shows that Croatia was in 74th place, that it came to 51st place in 2001 and that it fell 70th again in 2005. By throwing out this information that we're proposing to bring in, you're actually doing a rough manipulation. You're creating a picture like we've moved to 70th place since 74th and we've made some progress. ... You can accept this or not accept it, but you will not change the facts, and the facts are such that Croatia... [[You can't hear the speaker.]] And the facts are like that, despite trying to exclude me because it's embarrassing to listen, the facts are such that in one time in 2001 Croatia has made strong progress, strong progress in the fight against corruption and such perception in the public that it has subsequently receded. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] If you do not accept this amendment you send a clear message to the public, we will manipulate the statistics. It's our only interest. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60904	... 22 for, 7 abstentions and 60 against. [[Specially enabled.]] The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 2, also the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60905	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The government does not accept the 2nd amendment. In fact, the 2nd amendment proposes a series of laws that have been passed over the past period. The government has already listed some of them in its programme, these are being referred, let's say correctly, to those adopted on the adoption of the 2002 national programme. For reasons of correctness, I also consider saying, and this has been said repeatedly in the debate that it is claimed in this programme that the national programme from 2002 has not been implemented. He hasn't been partially implemented and that's quite true. But here in this same state assessment program, it says that the difference between the 2002 program and this program, what's the difference? That, in the past programme, the emphasis was not on political will as it is in this programme, but in the previous programme I quote: "the emphasis was on law making, and in this programme is the implementation of law of first-rate importance". So, their implementation. And that's why the government doesn't think it's necessary to name these laws. Why? Because only their adoption shows it and the fact that we're proposing this new program wasn't enough. The emphasis should be except for the political will and their full implementation and implementation and creation of credibility in our public that we are indeed fighting corruption. Then both the public picture and perception will be completely different because in the extreme line and whatever was said for the 2001 data in the 2002 programme, it was said, I quote: "The assessment of the position of the Republic of Croatia is based in comparison with neighbouring and transition countries. The Republic of Croatia has been assessed relatively low despite progress." So this is a picture that we cannot be satisfied with in any past period, and that is why we should actually put emphasis on the really full implementation of the concrete measures that we have outlined in this programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60906	For the SDP club, respected representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60907	First, this amendment corrects the incorrect sentence, which reads: "The National Programme and the Action Plan have not been implemented". That she is incorrectly acknowledging the Government of the Republic of Croatia because she wrote quite the opposite in a questionnaire for GRECO that she sent to the world. She wrote there that the national programme and action plan had been implemented. And here it is false. First, we want to make it right. Secondly, in the 2002 plan, the emphasis was on passing laws. And that plan was implemented and fulfilled because the laws were passed. Here's your list of those laws in that amendment of ours. Being back in the last two years of the law doesn't... You could have written that somewhere. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] We didn't want to put that in your amendment. That in two years the last years you don't implement the laws that have been passed, but you don't want to find out that the laws have been passed means to try to manipulate again. Now you will be left with this incorrect sentence "the national programme and the action plan have not been implemented", that sentence is incorrect, the government knows it itself, it says when it goes into the world, it says in international documents that it sends to the world, but here consciously manipulates the local public. We object to that, we ask that it be corrected, and we don't understand why you refuse it unless you purposely want the false and false data to be written in this document. Voting.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60908	Please vote. Let's get on with it. The result? 18 for, 3 abstentions, 68 against. The amendment didn't go through. I am voting on the proposal for a National Corruption Prevention Programme 2006-2008. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 73 votes in favour, 9 abstentions and 1st, the National Corruption Prevention Programme was adopted in 2006-2008 in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted. We also have a proposal for conclusions proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club, so I am voting on these proposals for conclusions. Please. No, no. [[Thank you, Mr. President.]] To vote. They're all read. ... The public hasn't heard. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And they have a right to hear it. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And why should I read them, so that the public didn't hear them. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And well, here's to the public then hearing them, this public should know, the public should hear that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Office of the State Administration are in charge of dispensing representative bodies to those units of local self-government in which the executive authority is formed by purchasing council mandates contrary to the will of the electoral body shown in the elections. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Secondly, to task the government to annul its decision taken to insist on the Prime Minister's insistence on the forgiveness of the debt of "The Stone of Ingrad" because that forgiveness has been made, it has clear criteria and moral principles of representation, is an eclectic example of corrupt behaviour, encourages other responsible factors to such behaviour. It is up to the government to propose, within 3 months, an amendment to the Law on the implementation of the state budget and to suspend the suspension of the payment of taxes. It is up to the government to propose within 3 months amendments to the Law on the Court Register and to prevent new companies from opening up to avoid paying their creditors. It is up to the government to propose, within 3 months, amendments and additions to the Penal Code that introduces the incrimination for economic crime and extends the limitation deadlines modelled by the 2003 law. It is the government's duty to assess whether there is a basis for the prosecution of former members of the Government and the State Attorney's Office's office to provide all relevant documentation with the basis for the debate in the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the National Corruption Prevention Programme 2006 to 2008. The government's president is committed to dismissing Economy Minister Branko Vukelic's duties due to his participation in political corruption in Karlovac. And it undertakes the government's president to relieve State Secretary of the Central State Office for the administration of Antun Palaric because of a voluntary decision that enables and encourages political corruption. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? 17 votes for, 8 abstentions, 70 against. The conclusion didn't go through. Let's go to the next point - - Proposal for a decision to appoint a Ombudsman for children Proposing a decision in accordance with Article 4. The Law on the Ombudsman for Children Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports Nevio Šetić will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60910	I would like to thank Mr. President, the Honorable Madam MPs, the Honorable gentlemen of the House of Representatives. The government's proposal is Mrs. Mila Jelavic. Let me just say a few words about the résumé, very rich for this area. Mrs Jelavic was born on March 25th 1958 in Prološac upper, Imotski, Republic of Croatia. She's married, a mother of two, a graduate lawyer, for 23 years now. Maybe you should say it's already been since '93. year and senior professional advisor at the Ministry of Labour, Social Care, Department of Child Protection, Marriage and Family, persons deprived of their business skills. Since '98. until 2001 she was head of the Department of Administrative Inspection at the Ministry of Labour and Social Care, and since 2001 she has been the head of the Department of Child Protection, Family and Care of the Ministry of Labour and Social Care, i.e. the Ministry of Health and Social Care where she works today. The entire working life so far is a sign in the area of protection of the rights of the child, family, persons deprived of their business skills. In the proposal, you see in the résumé how many working groups and projects she has participated in this area, but here I believe it is particularly important to say that she was a member of the Working Party for the Making of Family Law '98. In 2003, she was also co-ordinator of the Working Party for the Making of Family Law, that she was a member of the Working Party for the Making of the Law on the Rights of the Child in 2003, that she was a member of the Working Party for the Construction of the Law on the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child in 2003. It is interesting to note that Mrs Jelavic and an external associate in the implementation of practical teaching at the Faculty of Law in Zagreb is the Department of Family Law, that an external associate in the implementation of a practical course at the Faculty of Law in the study of social work is also listed here and which other professional activities show the competence of the proposed person for this place. Thus, the lecturer on children's rights in the project of child participation in the process of education in the organisation of the social policy initiative association, then the lecturer at the social workers' conference, adoption, public influence on regulation and practice, then lecturer on education for persons named as guardians of children, foreigners who are not accompanied by parents or guardians in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, etc. There's still so much to say, but the distinguished ladies and gentlemen of this proposal you've also received a résumé, so here's our proposal for Mrs. Mila Jelavic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60911	Thank you. The committee's rapporteurs. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, a respected representative, President Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60912	Thank you very much. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a decision to appoint the Ombudsman for children, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 22 March 2006 at its 39th session on 29 March 2006. The Committee considered the proposal as an interested working body. Considering that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been asked to have the Committee familiar with the selection procedure and the résumés and to provide a list of all candidates who have responded to a public call for candidates to be registered as guardians for children. When this was not done, individual members of the Committee expressed dissatisfaction with the fact that it is not a legal obligation of the Government. When it comes to the proposed candidate child counsel, the Committee members expressed their opinion that it was a person with good professional references and expressed their expectations that they would succeed in recruiting all entities involved in the protection of children's rights. The Committee once again noted that it would continue to monitor the work of the Ombudsman for children continuously and critically. After the debate was held, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to make a decision on the appointment of the Ombudsman for children. That conclusion was made with one abstention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60913	Thank you. The Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, which unanimously supported in its report the decision to appoint Mila Jelavic as the child defender. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his word. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a decision to appoint a child counsel. The debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision. The proposal is for Mrs. Mila Jelavic to be elected attorney for the children. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that with 72 votes for, 3 abstentions and one against, Ms. Mila Jelavic has been appointed a child defender and will now be sworn before the Croatian Parliament. The oath is given in a way that the president reads the text of the oath, and then the Ombudsman for the children after being called and called, stands up and pronounces: "I swear". So, "I swear that in my work, I will stick to the Constitution and the law, respect the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, and I will do my duty in a fair, honorable, conscientious and impartial way in the best interests of children."
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60915	I swear. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60916	Thank you. I congratulate Mrs. Jelavic on her sworn oath and wish her success on behalf of the Parliament on her honorary and responsible duty. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we would now still have a united debate because it is interrelated laws. - Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction and Part-Corruption of Central Authorities of the State Administration, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 451 - Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Social Care Act, secondly, P.Z. No. 362 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In the Law of Design, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Social Care Act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Labour, Social Policy and Health, for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, for local and regional self-government, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. Would the proposing representatives like to further explain the proposal? In the case of the Act amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction and Circumstance of the Central Authorities of the State Administration of Deputy Secretary of State Zoran Piculjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60918	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! Here, you have before you one amendment to the Law of Design and the detour of the central authorities of the state administration that goes in virtually three directions. The Central State Office for the Development Strategy is taking over these changes as part of the current competence of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integrations on the coordination of the European Union funds. We're getting a team in tight... between the national planning and the use of European Union funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's the first change. The second amendment is practically a new competence of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, which is introduced practically into its competence and Directive of the European Union, the European Commission relating to the transport of cableways, escalators and to the tows that have not been under any authority so that administrative and professional affairs are now being carried out by this ministry. The third change also takes place in the direction of the division of competences between the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity and the Ministry of Health and Social Care in which the first ministry takes over family and legal protection tasks in the domain of practically preventive and advisory while the Ministry of Health and Social Care remains in that section with responsibility for administrative and other professional affairs. It's in the metrics and in the shorts and all this change. The law follows an urgent procedure precisely because of the harmonisation of the practical approach to the European Union and falls within the package of these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60919	Thank you. State Secretary of the Ministry of Health and Social Care Dorica Nikolic, further explanation of the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60920	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs! In front of you is the final text of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act and as my predecessor said, in fact, what is being governed by this law and why this amendment is supplemental. The most important thing is that the structure between the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity and the Ministry of Health and Social Care is now differently arranged, i.e. by this law we want to introduce the possibility of introducing family centres to the Ministry of Family, intergenerational solidarity and defenders, or we want to abolish the Croatian Institute for Social Work that was envisaged in the past law because we believe that this institution is especially because we will now have family centres and we will have centres for social care, so the two ministries that are responsible in this area. We would have one institution that would actually be third and we think that it is no longer needed here because we are facing a major social care reform that provides for decentralisation, or that those parts that the Ministry of Health and Social Care today behave as future centres at local or regional level. So, we believe that the stay of the Croatian Institute for Social Labour is actually one institution that is centralized again with its headquarters in Zagreb that should take over some of the tasks that we have provided for in social care reform in order to run at the level of the region or at the level of the county and towns or municipalities. So that's the biggest newspaper. And why the family center? You've already seen in this first law that my colleague Zoran Piculjan was talking about, in fact, the division of prevention and curatives. So family centers would run those jobs that are related to the family and that preventative and social care centres continue to curative. We believe that this is very favourable at this time because you know that the Republic of Croatia is not only joining the European Union but that it is a country that has come out of the war and after many of the problems we have had with refugees, the exiles we still have but the fact is that we need to devote more practically to family, that it should be devoted to children because it is seen by all indications that this and the trend is not only in Europe but that the trend of family separation in the world is that. So if you look at the latest UN declarations and the last calls calling from the European Union, then in the area of social policy, that we should return to strengthening the family and preventing children and youth so that we do not have to treat what we actually do and then, as the cost of a social state, it turns out to be more cost than we do. The third that we have practically said here is that there are improvements, several improvements to the existing law because we have actually only gone more technically since there is a major project of reform that will implement the new Social Care Act and on the other hand that this provides the possibility that the Ministry of Family, Intergenerational Solidarity and Defence will go with its special Family Centres Act. So this is one possibility to go really into two special laws that will be two fundamental laws of social policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60921	Thank you. The rapporteurs of the Board, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. President-in-Office Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60922	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament at the 52nd session held on 28 and 29 March 2006 discussed the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Circular of the Central Authorities of the State Administration with the final proposal for a law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Parliament on 16 March 2006. The Committee discussed the draft law on the basis of the competences set out in Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the debate, the Committee supported the solution set out in the final draft law. The Committee also warned that, in view of the deadlines set out in Article 7, the deadline for entry into force of the law should be harmonised. The Committee is hereby aware that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has already submitted an appropriate amendment to Article 7. Final bill. The Committee considers that the provision of Article 8 needs to be clarified and has therefore submitted an amendment to the Final Proposal for a Law. After the debate, the Committee unanimously proposed 7 votes for the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Part-Circular of the Central Authorities of the State Administration and, together with the amendment that I have already mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60923	Thank you. Other committees regarding the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act? There isn't. Interested? I'm opening a debate. IDS representative club, respected representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovic. She's gone. The club loses its word. HSP club, a respected representative of Ruza Tomasic. She's gone. And that club loses its word. HDZ Representatives' Club. On behalf of the Club, respected representative Draž Bošnjaković and Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60924	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues of the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Part-Corruption of the Central Authorities of the State Administration. As we have already heard, 3 are the fundamental changes proposed by this Law. This Law proposes to amend not only the central state office for the development strategy but also the change of its scope. Thus, the Central State Office for the Development Strategy would also take over the tasks of coordination of matters related to assistance and cooperation programmes with the European Union. This will ensure a close link between the process of national development planning and the process of using European Union funds intended for the Republic of Croatia in order to bring it closer to the European Union. In particular, the use of one part of the funds available for the purpose of economic and social development of the Republic of Croatia. The second major change proposed by this Law is that in the area of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development it is established that administrative and other activities relating to the system of transport for cableways, lifts and to tows are carried out. As can be seen, these jobs are not regulated and are not part of any ministry. So in this way we are filling in one legal gap by putting these jobs in the area and jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, and in this way the obligations that have been made by the European Commission in bilateral negotiations for Chapter 1 of the freedom of movement of goods are actually carried out. So this change is necessary and very important. This Law also proposes the division of competences between activities to be carried out in the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity and the Ministry of Health and Social Care in matters of family legal protection. In such a way as to establish matters related to preventive work with the family within the competence of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, while administrative and other family-related jobs would be carried out in the area of the Ministry of Health and Social Care. We believe that it is the right of each government to propose the most effective organisation and structure of central state bodies it considers to meet those tasks and those objectives set before it by the Government. The Croatian Democratic Community Club therefore supports the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Construction and the Part-Corruption of the Central Authorities of the State Administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60925	Thank you. Mrs. Ruža Lelic for this second part. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60926	Dear Vice President, State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the proposed amendments and additions to the Social Care Act as a useful shift in support of the family, fostering community work, volunteer work and all in accordance with national family policy. Croatia is a social state, and our goal for the future is to move from the social state towards social society. So where we are according to the World Bank's research, the truth is, for 2000, poverty and social assistance users. It is said that 10% of the population is below the national line of poverty. 4.8% of the population is below the international poverty line, but it is also important to point out that we also have an expression of income inequality coefficient of 0.352 while, for example, Hungary has this coefficient of 0.235, the Czech Republic 0.174. But let's go back to the data that says that Croatia is a social state. This shows the share of aid and compensation expenditure in the gross social product compared to the countries of the European Union. Well, I'm just going to give an example. The Netherlands stands out 2.2%, Sweden 0.8%, Norway 0.7%, Finland 0.4%, Luxembourg 0.4%, Iceland 0.2%, Greece 0.1% and Croatia 0.57. The European Union average is 1.7. However, when compared to these more advanced countries, we must say that the needs of our population are greater. Given the unemployment and age of the population, the proportion of people over 65 in Croatia is now around 16.3%. I'd like to remind you that in 1970, that percentage was about 7%. Which, in the general population, is certainly among the old peoples. And this also raises the need for social assistance and social care. Employment and unemployment are then one of the specific needs for social assistance. The second provision is the amount of income that is realised, in many countries, such as low and disorderly income is an important cause of poverty. The system of social assistance and care should be fair and accessible. Righteous to receive the help and care of those who need it most and can make it as easy as possible. The system should encourage work and responsibility. Each individual is obliged to care for the fulfilment of his or her life needs as well as the need for persons who, by law or other grounds, are obliged to abstain, and only if they are not able to comply with clear and unequivocal criteria are social assistance and care measures. Social assistance and care are being implemented today by 80 welfare centres with 25 branches. 67 state homes for elderly and powerless persons, 63 private homes of social care, then there are foster families, which I would especially like to remind you of. So, foster families, 2,000 587 of them are located in 5 thousand 788 users, of which 2,000 are 331 children and 3 thousand 457 adults. This kind of care should be encouraged more strongly. But also control and monitor. This vision for users is more acceptable, it is more humane, and for society it is cheaper. One of the objectives of the social care reform is to uninstitutionalise where housing of socially endangered persons in a home would be the ultimate solution, and assistance would be provided in their families or the establishment of institutions for living and half-day stay in order to keep people integrated in their environment. Let's also remind ourselves of projects that mean the development of social care worth 45.6m euros, 31m euros is a World Bank loan, and this 105m will be allocated to the state budget. Let's go back now to the proposed amendments and additions to the law. Here is the proposal to abolish the Croatian Institute for Social Work, which is said to be the applicant did not even come to life with his work, and we believe he would lead the centralised system. And our goal is certainly to decentralisation the system. There has also been a change in the structure and division of ministries, especially in relation to centres for social care in the field of family legal protection and criminal and legal protection of children and youth with developmental disorders. A shared competence is introduced between the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare and the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. The Ministry of Health and Social Care would carry out protection activities, as we say in the healthcare sector, the curative area of family legal protection and criminal justice protection of children and youth with behavioural disorders, and the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity would carry out consultations and other preventive jobs in relation to the same category of users. In contact with the social care centres and their professionals, they gave me the view that they support these changes. However, work must be coordinated, that in the work of a particular service, regardless of which ministry they belong, they should be complemented, not overlapped. It's important that we consider the establishment of a family center. In accordance with national family policy, and worth the family as the main foundation of individuals and society. The establishment of family centres improves the development of networks of family support institutions. It promotes the development of work programmes in the community, volunteering and work of citizens' associations, which is very much needed, with the purpose of supporting parents, families, children and youth and other socially sensitive groups. They are improving, coordinating, unifying means that outside the institutional form of support. As I have cited families, children, youth and other socially sensitive groups, but the implementation of programme activities is also enhanced for the purpose and education of parents and youth, but also for the sensitisation of the public for the value of the family. During 2004, a contract was signed for the establishment of 7 family consultations at the Social Care Centre in Dubrovnik, Split, Sibenik, Karlovac, Krapina, Koprivnica and Vinkovci. In 2006, it is also planned to take over the Zagreb and Rijeka counselling centres, which are designed for social care centres, which is the establishment of 5 new ones. The proposal for a law regulates that existing established counselling centres for social care centres are established in 2006 as new social care institutions, i.e. family centres established by the Republic of Croatia, and the means of work would be provided from the state budget. The family centre is established for the area of the county and the City of Zagreb. The area of the county or the City of Zagreb can be established by one or more branches and I, i.e. we at the HDZ Club, think that it is necessary to set up branches in existing centres because they already have established, existing centres already have organized departments to protect marriage, family and also carry out the jobs of counselling centres. And this advisory and preventive work should be brought closer to the users, and it should not be further away. That's why these branches are very important. The possibility remains open for local self-government such as during 2004 and 2005 to be involved in providing space and other assistance to the work of the consultant. A family centre of the City of Zagreb is scheduled to employ 132 professional workers, psychologists, defecologists, social worker, lawyers and accountants in 20 county centres. The Ministry of Intergenerational Solidarity may also conclude a contract with social care institutions and other legal and physical persons to provide assistance and care services to older and powerless persons. It also introduces the possibility of hiring experts from the list of experts to carry out expert supervision of social care homes and other legal and physical persons performing social care activities. The provisions on professional inspection supervision of social care institutions are an improvement. These changes are expected to ensure that surveillance is carried out in accordance with the newly established structure, the ministry's detour. We find it particularly useful to consider that in a simpler way it is prescribed that an adult can pay the price of accommodation with his or her property, i.e. what all contracts should contain, which should contribute to the quality of application of this standard in practice, but also reduce any abuses. It is expected that the proposed amendments to the law will provide greater preventive care for the most vulnerable groups in society, children, younger adults, disabled persons, as well as families as a whole. And which should ultimately result in a smaller number of users in the social care system and a smaller allocation of funds in the state budget for curative protection in the social care system. In one word, it will lead to a more efficient system, and therefore the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60927	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSLS club, Ms. MP and Vice-President Djurdja Adlesic, who does not have, so she and the club both lose the right to debate. On behalf of the HSS club, Ms. Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60928	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Gentlemen of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, here I am in my presentation on behalf of the club personally, first of all, on the Social Care Act. When the prime minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia accepted the removal of the emergency procedure from the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Care, a lack of hope arose that the proposed solutions that were strongly criticised in the debates in the first reading would be seriously considered. It is now evident that the proposer does not want to do so despite numerous arguments that indicate and prove that the proposed solutions are bad, that they will create a general confusion that is manifested through inconsistencies with several laws leading to conflict of jurisdiction and thus inability to act. After two years of mandates, they join in trying to form family centres in a completely wrong way. It is obvious that the Government has decided on the method of trying, so when it is implemented, there will be new amendments to the law before us, and the whole mandate will pass in an attempt to establish and distinguish jurisdiction between the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare and the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. It is clear that the government does not want to seriously engage in the design of a social care system in which social assistance would be given to the most vulnerable and needed. She says she will take care of it when making a new law, so she agrees that the existing system is not good, is not fair but does not want to change it. Despite existing knowledge, it accepts that hard-separated funds in the budgets are received by those who are not most needed, but are well equipped with the abuses of the law. In order to improve the social care system, the law established the Croatian Institute for Social Labour as a public institution of social care. The Office’s task was to carry out the activities of promotion, development, research, monitoring, expert supervision and funding relating to social care. The aim of the establishment of the Institute was therefore to ensure responsibility for achieving the maximum effectiveness of the social care system. The government's lack of interest in achieving maximum efficiency has shown that it has not done anything in two years to bring the Institute into practice and to function. Instead, we have a proposal that the Institute should be abolished by reason of the fact that the law for abolishing is just a failure to resuscitate in practice. There's no word in the explanation about a failed concept of the establishment of an institution. There's not a word about the unnecessaryness of the institute. Proposer says he wants to decentralize the system. Of course, we are in favour of decentralisation but there is nothing here since decentralisation, it is a matter of abolishing the institution that should have and had to carry out internal control of the use of funds in welfare institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Croatia and other institutions of social care and legal and physical persons who carry out the activities of social care and are co-financed from the state budget. Why is there no need to control the use of budgets? There is no answer to this question in the explanation, but we are being imposed on all of us from the unserious and unsustainable explanation of the proposal to abolish the institution. Incorrectly, the applicant states that the Institute would be primarily a financial institution. The primary institution should be an institution that monitors the situation and takes measures to improve professional work, implements internal control of the use of funds, performs capital investment, investment and investment maintenance activities in social care institutions established by the Republic of Croatia, etc. etc. Such an institution is referred to as an unnecessary institution which means greater centralisation of the social care system. It is incomprehensible that by calling for decentralisation, the applicant also argues that the office's tasks will be taken over by a ministry which is at the same time burdened with the problem of health and has no acceptable response to address the problem. For the applicant, the existence of an institution means the fragmentation of the social care system. On the contrary, the Institute would be involved in improving the social care system, and its abolition of the system was fragmented into at least two ministries. Furthermore, the aim of this law is to introduce the possibility of establishing family centres. The proposal calls for a national family policy. It is true that this national family policy provides for the establishment of family centres as an institution to support the family. It is true that today the family is in a crisis that reflects on all other crises in one society. Therefore, families need support, and we agree that these are family centers. But not as arranged by this law. This must be a designed system that will not be divided into prevention and curatives. The law says that the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity will set up family centres for the area of a particular county, i.e. the City of Zagreb. Co-founders may also be counties, cities and municipalities, but the law does not speak of their rights as co-founders. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. These rights will depend on the will and assessment of the minister of the family. We don't know if the founders will be involved in financing the work of the center. In accordance with Article 2(2), no, as the means of work are provided in the national budget. Which makes co-founded rights and obligations I don't know. What will the centers do? In the context of its activity, the law says it does the tasks of advisory and preventive work. So they'll advise, and the problems will be solved by someone else. They will advise children to support their parents if they do not have the means to live, and parents are obliged to support their children. They will share their parents’ advice on child rearing, and potential adoptors about the possibility of adoption. The problem will still be solved by someone else, and the citizen will wander from institution to institution and the problem remains unresolved. The centres will perform advisory and preventive work related to the prevention of all forms of addiction in children and youth. If this isn't about overlapping the responsibilities of the family center and the county prevention centre. It is unclear how consulting family centers will raise the quality of life for children, youth, and family. How the family center will raise the quality of a child’s life whose parents do not have the means to enable him to study, they do not have the means to buy him shoes, trousers, and T-shirts known to brand, and therefore the child suffers from ignoring his schoolmates. Since the family center will raise the quality of life in a family where neither the father nor the mother work, they have any sources of income or the family where the parents are fired, and the children are in school and will have to interrupt it for lack of money. How will the center raise the quality of life for young people who have no employment, and no hope of ever getting it? The head of such a centre following the appointment of the Minister is the Director. The director shall have the powers assigned to him by the statue. In such a provision, it would be no wonder if, under this Law, the statutes were not passed by anyone but by the Director himself. Therefore, the Director himself adopts the statute and prescribes his powers and rights and obligations. I think this is a precedent. So he gives himself powers. Is there anything else like this? Certainly not. This is an indication of the lack of vision of how the family center should look and how it should work. We heard from the representatives of the motionary during the debate in the first reading that a working group was appointed for the creation of the Family Centres Act. It's a shame that the group failed to make the law in two years because there would certainly be no such absurdity in it. It is expected to be based on a clear vision of the role, importance and status of family centres. In addition, we consider it good that the status of nurses in the homes of social care is aligned with the provisions of the Law on Sisterhood so that they are given the right to pass an expert examination before the examination committee of the Ministry of Health, although they have done part of the practice in the homes of social care, and in part in health institutions. It is illogical that the opinion of the professional examination carried out by the Ministry of Social Welfare Affairs on the basis of the minutes of the examination committee before which the examination was passed. This is the Commission of the Ministry of Health, so it would be logical and only possible for the belief to betray this particular ministry. And in the end, it is a pity that the applicant did not consider the reasoned remarks of the first reading. As the concept and conceptual law fully continues to be read in spite of the really established criticisms, this Law is unacceptable for us at the Croatian Peasant Party Club and can therefore not get our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60929	Thank you very much. We have one correction. Mr. Lucia Chickesh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60930	There were more but I'll just look back at one. As my colleague said, there's nothing here since decentralisation. That's just not true. I don't believe that you don't see it, but I don't think you want to see it. The decentralisation is going through the county welfare centres, and according to what you say, that all social assistance and all social services would just come to those who need it most.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60931	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his right. The second is Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go. I gave up, thank you. The third is Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. He's gone, too. Fourth, Mr. Kajo Bucan, he's gone. Good to see you, too. Then Mr. Darko Milinovic. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mrs. Pearl Perman. Here you go. Thank you, he's giving up. Mr. Stjepan Bacic, please. He's giving up Mr. Stjepan Bacic. Mrs. Lucia Chickesh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60932	... I'm just going to fill in when the lady was talking about something that's very imaginary. [[Specially enabled.]] What are family centers, what are family counselors? I have here just the development of family centers and family counselling centres during this period, and I can tell you that there are already nine such centers of the family. He works at social care centers. That nine family consultations were established during 2004, 2005. That 59 employees work in them and that they really successfully work at social care centres. That the plan in 2006 is to open up five more of these, that we have a period for 2007 and 2008 where the whole preventive work will be separated from the curative work on a very well-founded basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60933	Thank you very much. Mr. Krono Peronja. Here you go. Thank you, he's giving up. Mrs. Bozica Šolić, please. He's giving up. Is there something that the promoters want to say? Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60934	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let's get ready to vote. Please, let's get on with it. The quorum? 84. We've got a quorum. We're going to the vote. First, it is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Part-Corruption of the Central Authorities of the State Administration. State Secretary Antun Palaric. The government has submitted an amendment that becomes an integral part of the bill. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60935	The government accepts the amendment of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60936	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the Law. The adoption of the law requires a majority of at least 77 votes in favour. The law was on the polls three months ago and received 76 votes. Please, let's get on with it. Let's get on with it. So I am voting on the final proposal of this law. Please vote. The result? For 83 and 15 against. So with that majority, most of this Law on Amendments and Supplements has been passed along with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60957	We're moving to agenda five. - Final proposal of the Law confirming the agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Austria on mutual assistance in cases of disasters and serious accidents, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 457. This would be the last item of the agenda we'll discuss tonight. The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this Act. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings of the Law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He's gone, he's not here. He'll be here. The applicant's representative is either Ivica Kirin or Ivica Buconjic. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. There's no one reported, so this point went through without any debate. Obviously, there's no interest in that. I'm closing the debate. Tomorrow at 10 we begin the debate with the State Election Commission. Thank you very much and good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-29-0.u60958	Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Austria on the mutual provision of assistance in cases of disasters and serious accidents. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The result? With 99 votes in favour, unanimously passed the proposed law. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session. It's on the agenda. - Final proposal of the Law on the State Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia, second reading, P.Z. No. 329 The draft law is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. State Secretary of the Central State Administration Antun Palaric will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
