ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57704	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary. Here again arises an old problem, which is the part where the Croatian Parliament appoints that it must have full insight into how and how this whole process is conducted, who the candidates are, by which the criteria are chosen. Because according to the information we have, most candidates are being held under the pensioners, and they used to be judges of the Trade Court. And now on the one hand, it can turn out both right and wrong. It could work out well on that side, because they were involved in all of it. So it doesn't take much time, matter understands. I can do it the way the regulations do it. But, on the other hand, you can have that negative sound, which is that the same ones who have already worked in various processes, let's say that either this is about bankruptcy or some other situation, that now as judges, the jurors will continue to work on those things they've been doing, and there's a big question for us because we ourselves know what our situation is in commercial courts. We've seen how long it takes. We saw the Bagat case last night, where it's been ten years of all these situations, all these variations. Nothing's been determined. The workers are waiting, so we don't have full information, we don't have all the indicators, and according to the information, it's obvious that for judges it's basically even a overweight part of the name of the person who was once judges who were now retired. So we're asking for one complete piece of information from the government's representatives as it went and why it's really decided on this variant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57705	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57706	Thank you, Mr. President. Here we are, and on behalf of the SDP Club, for the first time, we have made remarks of a formal nature on this proposal, and unfortunately these formal shortcomings still exist. I will immediately refer to them and therefore personally consider this proposal to be necessary because of such procedural and legal shortcomings, this proposal should be withdrawn. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: The law on courts states that judges in the High Court are chosen by people in a way that representatives of all commercial courts in the country are represented. That is how the proposer did not fail to propose representatives from the trade court in Pazin, which was only recently formed and it was formed despite a large announcement by the government and the ministry itself that the number of courts in the country should be reduced. There's one thing you can say and the other you can do. So, despite the fact that it is said that the courts should be reduced at the same time, a Trade Court was formed in Pazin even though it is not completed at all, so it is asked, so the question is really why and why, but on that other occasion. It's equally formed, please nice, and the municipal court in Tisno. So much for the strategy and the concept of this government that it wants to do at all for the judiciary and specifically for the courts themselves. However, here you can see, despite this explicit legal provision of the Law on Courts, there is no proposed representative of the Commercial Court in Zadar and that is enough reason to withdraw this proposal because it is not based on the law. Now let's get back to the point and to the core. If we look at the candidates who are proposed in order, starting with the Commercial Court itself in Zagreb, we can see further that there are eminent names. Doctors of legal science, mostly lawyers, and please, it's a nice proposal to appoint a jury judge. What are judges in the first place, and what is a jury system and what is the point of a jury trial? The point of a jury trial is that the laymen are involved in the courts. Our system is a neighbouring system. Somewhere in the layman's court, so the entire laymen decide, so in Anglo-Saxon law, what we are more and more seeking to decide on the guilt, they decide on the value of the evidence. The Court of Justice shall only apply the law. That's what it's all about. However, here, in this way, the meaning of a jury trial is played out. We here precisely because we know some people we know that even though the promoter did not specify the interests of individual candidates at all, so let's see who these are people who are also as representatives of the citizens might participate in the participation, because this is the system and the purpose of the jury's trial. We are also not sure whether the names of some candidates are correctly listed again. This is listed by the proposal from the Commercial Court in Zagreb, Mr. Jaksa Barbic. No academic titles indicated. Maybe we don't know if it's about Dr. Jaksa Barbic or if it's really some other person named Jaksa Barbic. But then, it's just a shortfall that we don't see what it's all about. Then something that also falls into the eyes and it's a big rush and a big battle, even for the judge's seat in the High Court of Commerce. And then when we see and see this, we attach this great rush, and this scandal about the appointment of the President of the High Court of Commerce himself, then really people are wondering why and why that is so, so many people personally care. It must be us who decide the judges of the jury, and they are dominant in the decisions of the High Court of Commerce because they are tried in the Council where the laity, the jurors are dominant, and the professional is just one. So sometimes all of the decisions that cause surprise, perhaps infidelity in the public, can sometimes in this way, i.e. the burden of responsibility belong only to professionals, and in this way can be decided by the layman. But if it was really about laymen, we'd already seen that's not the case. Here is also the issue of filling the post in the High Court of Commerce, so as to not only the judges of the jury, but also the current appointment of the President of the High Court of Commerce. talk about lobbying, etc. So the question is, what kind of political climate does the government allow lobbying? It hasn't been like that in a few years. And no lobbying was possible or possible. If there were even attempts, it was a bad job. Therefore, it is very important how we create this one climate of independence, how politics creates this one atmosphere in which it is possible and, that is, in which not only is it possible, but it also needs so much of the singing independence of the judiciary. But there in the part where the legislative authority participates, it is a very small and minimal share here, it concerns the very proposal to appoint jury judges, judges of the High Court of Commerce. That's where we should take responsibility and fulfill the meaning of the law. So, just the representatives of citizens, laymen, people who are not from the profession are represented. Where are the workers' representatives here? There's not a single one. Therefore, not only from this essential but first of all for this essential reason that no explicit provision of a coherent standard of Article 70(2) has been respected. The law on courts is not represented by representatives of all courts, all trade courts in the Republic of Croatia. For example, in Zadar, I suggest that the Proposer withdraw this proposal and put it together finally in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57707	Thank you. Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57708	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to rely on my colleague Ingrid's discussion. In fact, the legal ineligibleness of this proposal is evident, so I don't see why this is exactly the kind of proposal that came into the process. In fact, not all areas covered by the law were to be covered by proposals. On the other hand, these proposals that are here are said to actually be unquestionable. Perhaps, though, who knows, there is no argument, there is not a single word about these people. We don't see here whether these people are Croatian citizens or not. You don't know anything, you can't see from this proposal. And I think at this point in time when a heated media scandal was actually chosen by the president of that court was perfectly unnecessary in this way to put in the procedure a motion to elect the judges of that same court. It's only once again proven that something in the whole system is wrong. The job was done stupidly and ad hoc and I'm surprised that nothing learned from the previous few appointments we had in this House. Let's just remember the attorney general's case for the kids, and so on. cases where we also didn't have the right and normal reasonable arguments to decide on, neither did we, nor did we see the proposer procedure in which these proposals were made and why exactly you and such proposals came before this House. In the end, I think we should withdraw this proposal from the procedure. Put it together not only seriously but in accordance with the law, too, but in accordance with good customs. As we choose people, suggest people with their complete biographies, with some data to see which circles they come from, who they are. Finally, it's about jury judges. It's not mandatory to be professors of law school at all. Moreover, the laymen who are interested in this area should be directed. And it would be at least polite for such a proposal to come properly justified, duly explained such that this House can adopt it unanimously and without much discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57709	Replica, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57710	Well, Mr. President, for the teaching of a distinguished colleague, we must say that we are being brought here to the Croatian Parliament in a position to vote on the unseen. And we don't have any data at all. In fact, we have a lot of different and suspicious and procedural mistakes, and then we have to get exactly what each candidate needs when the appointment procedure is carried out. Because if it were formal then the Croatian Parliament would not decide and discuss it at all. Then it would be a matter of the Minister of Justice, of anyone else, but it's for us to expect to learn order once. We've had a lot of cases like this, so at least we can get complete documentation. Because with every procedure and process of appointment, it always leads to this kind of debate that we don't know who we're voting for and why we voted for, and yet I think we have an obligation to the electoral body that chose us. With this more because it's also about courts, in this case trade courts, and we know that there's also a lot of problems, and what all situations aren't about workers, companies and everything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57711	Thank you. Replica response, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57712	Thank you. I mean, the fact is, when you're entering a high-level commercial court building, you need to show your ID card, and you need to give some information about yourself to know who's getting into that building. So more data is needed for a man to be a visitor to that building than to be a jury judge. It's at least rude to this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57713	IDS counseling club, five minutes. Honorable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57714	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'd like you to meet Mr. MPs. I didn't mean to speak, but I was encouraged by Mrs. Anticevic. The best government has done towards Istria in the last two years is to form a trade court in Pazin. The court has more cases than Zadar, Sibenik, Dubrovnik together. The economic exchange of Istria is right behind Zagreb. Istria's exports are covered by 88%. About $900 million somewhere. That's more than they take out Zadar, Sibenik, Dubrovnik and maybe Rijeka together. Exporting per capital to Istria is about $4000 and 800. Croatia averages a thousand and 800 dollars. If you add that Istria participates in a tourist product somewhere with 42% of Croatian incomes, it is again more than all Dalmatian counties have combined that tourist traffic. So the justification for forming a trade court in Pazin was 100%. Ms. Anticevic's statement says that the SDP would never have given Istria a Commercial Court, and perhaps by that logic we should lose tomorrow and the County Court. Just don't act like that to Istria, ma'am. We, like you, advocate that the representatives of the workers are present in that court or represented as judges of the jury. Why? Because thousands and thousands of these bankruptcy proceedings are being conducted annually in the Republic of Croatia, we know how long, and we think that their role in this would certainly be useful. It would also be useful to be given full curricula of those persons and that is why IDS will be restrained during this vote. I also ask you not to let it happen to us as it happened to us in Pula, that it was proposed for a jury judge, although there was a municipal court, a person who allegedly traded i.e. She smuggled guns and was sentenced to two and a half years in Italy. This man in Italy allegedly was released into custody,... from which he escaped, is known where, and then when he came to Croatia he continued to rifle on the pulse neighborhoods so that several months ago you can imagine, he was proposed as the Judge of the Municipal Court. That's what happened in Pula. So don't let anything like this happen to us at the High Court of Commerce, because for a higher level of those persons who are offered such a drastic case won't happen to us, but that something similar doesn't happen to us when we appoint some other judges, and at this point the situation around the Commercial Court or the High Court of Commerce is particularly electrified because of the fact that some of the judges in the bankruptcy were directing some of the money to edit their premises. Absolutely all of us know that donations in a country in which the judiciary is simply under quotes cubes with money, all courts are in the same way equipped, or arranged. There is no difference between the court in Rovinj, the court in Pazin, the court I speak to now in Sibenik, Zadar or Zagreb or at the High Commercial Court. They are all being arranged through some form of donation, however, because otherwise the situations in the courts would be incomparably worse, but once again please give us complete biographies of those persons so that they can really be read correctly about them. I think that such a practice would first or foremost suit the persons who will take this high honorary place in the hierarchy under the allegations of judges or judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia. Once again, I think that this decision as such is not mature for discussion, we can do it again next week, but give us the curricula of those persons who will act as one of the most prestigious functions in the Republic of Croatia the next day.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57715	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57716	Well, it's incorrect that he's hardened my colleague Cain, imputing me, don't act like you don't need a Court of Commerce in Istria. I didn't say it at all or should, or shouldn't. You're still talking about the value of disputes here. Finally, the courts are established by the number of cases, not the value of the dispute in a particular case. On that occasion, when I mentioned the Trade Court in Istria, I spoke about the criticism of the concept, the government concept, the concretely resolute ministry, the Ministry of Justice, which at the same time speaks of a reduction in the number of courts, and at the same time, I say at the same time as saying so, establishing new courts, and even asking you to the Municipal Court in Tisno.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57717	And a second correction, honourable representative of Miroslav Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57718	Thank you very much. Following what counterpart Ingrid Antičević Marinović said, it is incorrect what you said about the case in Pazin, but also my colleague thinks it is very dangerous and incorrect to identify any representative of any party with an attitude, with his individual stand. Especially since counterpart Anticevic has made a very correct statement on what her position is based on with the case in Pazin and these reforms that are foreseen in the judiciary. In this way you're saying that any representative when he utters his thought that the party's position is incorrect, because the party's views are spoken on behalf of the representatives' clubs below for the second speaker.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57719	Gentlemen and Madam Representatives, the motion to appoint judges of the High Court of Commerce of the Republic of Croatia came a long time ago into the parliamentary procedure and then we returned it back last year, because this proposal was crawling with inaccuracy, it was crawling with incorrect and address and names. I turned my attention to the Ministry of Justice at the time to draw attention to the President of the High Court of Commerce who put the motion for appointing, that there are persons who cannot be judges of the jury because there are doubts that they are in conflict of interest, that they are also being prosecuted, true police proceedings then, those persons are still on the list today. The Justice Committee, I order the chairman of the Justice Committee to convene a meeting of the Justice Committee to consider this proposal. The Ministry of Justice and the President of the High Court of Commerce will provide full life-species and then, after that session of the Committee, we will consider this proposal. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on courts is prescribed that judges should be appointed in a way to ensure the representation of all counties. There is no appointment here from Zadar, a proposal for the appointment of judges from Zadar County. Whether they're loaded or not, that's another thing, but they don't. So we're taking this off the agenda for now. We'll have the annual report now. We are going to the point - - Annual report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2004 in accordance with Article 9. The Law on the State Commission for the Control of the Public Procurement Procedures The State Commission submitted that report, the debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. The report was received at the session, the government delivered its opinion. Proposer representative, the president of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, Goran Matesic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57721	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I must first start with an apology for my failure to attend the final session that has actually resulted in a set of misunderstandings and objective circumstances. In front of you is the first report of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, first because it was established at the end of 2003 and in 2004 is the first year in which it has done a lot of business and processed its results. This report therefore does not refer to the whole issue of public procurement in the Republic of Croatia this report concerns only the works of the subject of public procurement which came under control before the State Commission. Therefore, those public procurements in which complaints have been made. According to our estimates, I say the estimates because we didn't find a completely reliable number of public procurements except in the publication, the publications made through "National Journals", according to our assessment in the complaint to the state commission and it appears 8.16% of the total public procurement. So, the subject of this report is precisely that 8.16% of what's been published in the People's Newspaper. The State Commission, I do not need to talk to this High Body about the importance of the matter of public procurement, enough to know that since this round of negotiations this chapter is, in fact, a particular chapter of this matter, public procurement represents one of the indicators of the functioning of the state and the public sector it is actually an indicator of the conscious and economic business of the public sector. The market covered by public procurement is large and thus is of particular interest to the economy at all. The State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures is a new status body which has a specific function of regulators somewhere organised as an administrative body with quasi-judicial functions and is based in Croatia on the principles of the European Commission Directive as an independent and independent body. In the fourth year, therefore, in the first year of business, the State Commission paid particular attention to the speed of implementation of the appeal procedure, the quality of decision-making, the formation of legal practice, interpretation of the rules and the particular work on the quality of the reasoning. In this regard, in our humble opinion and the assessments that come around are seen by the professional public and the applicators, as well as foreign bodies dealing with public procurement. In doing so, I think of the different institutions of the European Commission and the World Bank and others whose estimates are that the public procurement system in the Republic of Croatia has made the most progress in the domain of the legal protection institutions. In 2004, the state commission worked in fairly inappropriate conditions in spatial and humane terms, but this issue was resolved and almost solved in the fifth and practically now in the sixth will be fully resolved. The budget of the State Commission is a question which is often raised by the European Commission institutions and, in terms of the existence of independence of the State Commission, is enough for our assessment to achieve its functions, although because of these human and spatial indisputes, it is not even fully used. I would like to help you briefly and to read this report which, under Article 9 of the Law, should consist of five numerical indicators and one list. Since public procurement is normally a question, as a legal area, we cannot praise the specific statistics and exhausting statistics we have worked to give as many indicators as possible from the matter that came to the appeal procedure so that the professional and political public can draw conclusions about phenomena and that these indicators may serve as some kind of comparative in the coming years. In that sense, interesting and statistical data that you will look at are interesting. I would only warn of one indicator that the state commission was obliged to show, which in practice proved to be very difficult or almost impossible to show that indicator. It is a list of participants in public procurement procedures which are the most common infringements of the rules. In order for such an indicator to be given, you must take into account the number of procurement orders and the number of appeal cases and the number of appeal cases that have been annulled. This would be the only correct way to show a list of the most common offenders, so public authorities that are obliged to implement the Public Procurement Act, while doing various infringements. Unfortunately, not unfortunately, but according to the state commission, I said only what comes out of the complaint, declared by appeal, so 8.16%. So we have no record of how many public procurement procedures there are at all, so in that sense we couldn't tell how many purchases some obligor had, how many complaints he had, and how many failed complaints or complaints that were annulled. Instead, to show something similar to this, we gave a list that could cause controversy and therefore need to be understood. We have made one list in which we have only put the ratio of what we know and that is the number of complaints made and the number of complaints cancelled. The list of course does not refer to an objective assessment of the breach of public procurement rules because if someone had only one complaint and had, for example, 500 purchases, so the only complaint was annulled then it appears to be a 100% violation of the legislation. In that sense, I would only warn you of this indicator. One thing that's quite interesting is the question of the amount of complaints and statistics adopted. And on page 11, you will see that the complaint before the State Commission is adopted in 47.8% of cases, and in different ways whether they fully or partially annul the selection decisions, so whether institutions are partially or in whole or in part, or in full public competition. That's a big number. The reasons for such a high degree, we didn't statistically express them. Usually speaking, the reasons are in different forms of non-compliance with the law. In fact, methodologically this would be based on questions concerning general assumptions for the initiation of public procurement procedures, so this is a similar issue of the planned value most often or very often, or does not have or is the choice decision greater than the planned means. So it's an absolutely important assumption of start-up, leadership and successful completion of public procurement procedures. There are frequent violations of the rules on public publication, so the fundamental principle of public procurement is transparency, prohibition of discrimination, public and availability. So, protection of freedom of the game. As a result, violations of the rules on public publication are always absolutely essential, whether it is non-publishing or illegal time-limits. Furthermore, the subject of procurement is also often subject to illegal application. Sometimes it is about ignorance because the legal provisions seem not clear enough, and sometimes, even in a high, large number of cases, it is about abuse when the subject of the procurement is deliberately shared, which is forbidden by law to come into a more liberal way, the possibility of conducting a more liberal public procurement procedure. So the acquisition of small values by a regulation that is, which is quite liberal. Uh, this report doesn't include purchases of up to 20 grand, up to 20 thousand kuna, because these purchases are completely liberal. There is no choice decision to make. This is where the contracting authorities behave as well as the businessmen and in the sense that they are not bound by special rules of the Public Procurement Act. Hence, if there is no decision to choose, there is no appeal, so these items are not actually, neither are they subject to processing. The next of the reasons why, for such a high number of cancellations, there would be at least two offers. Then there are very frequent violations of the rules in the domain in determining and applying the offerer's ability institute. It is an institute that is also a skill in public procurement management, so this skill is used in such a way that abuse is therefore trying to obtain an illegal choice or simply does not apply and avoids that application. The following and the last of these particular reasons that I am listing, which are in fact the causes of a large number of public competition cancellations, are the selection criteria, and this is exclusively the most economically favourable offer, which is a complex criterion consisting of both the lowest price and additional criteria. These additional criteria should be explained. They're numbered by law. They should be elaborated, and we did not have a single complaint in 2004 in which this criterion appeared as the one in which the contracting authorities applied, which would have been assessed legally. This can indicate two possible, two possible causes. One is that the law did not prescribe enough and then elaborated the sublaws of the matter, and the other is that there is not enough education of the people. They're both standing. Here's what would be in the short lines of my special explanation. I would also say that, in fact, the state commission as a young institution immediately applied for participation in the "Cards 2003" project in 2004. and as one of the relatively first institutions has also started this project to strengthen, strengthen the capacity of the state commission and in this sense this project is being implemented until today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57722	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57723	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'd like you to meet Mr. MPs. I may be rude, but this report is almost not worth the debate because it hides more than reveals. And there's absolutely nothing we can find out from him. It's kind of hiding the truth. This report is a set of imaginary percentages instead of telling us how many countries the goods have ordered outside the Public Procurement Act and trying to compare those figures in some way. 2004 with 2003 or I don't know 2002 and so on. No matter what the agency started or the commission worked or worked with the beginning of 2004. So, in such a way, we come up with some kind of combination of what's going on in that area? Apparently, the state out there in 2003 ordered goods without a competition near 5, maybe 6 billion kuna. Apparently, the state ordered goods in 2004 without a public tender of nearly 3 billion kuna. And it would be opportunized as well to find out what kind of goods it is. Which ministries in that front? And so on. Someone's gonna say it, so you know it. All we have to do is list all state audits, but yet, gentlemen, I don't think it's a job right now that they're looking for what the state audit was delivering to us a year or two or three days ago. We all know it's a "great procurement" to call her that in some way and the game thing. That it's a matter of agreement. But just give us a simple one when you mention on page 9 of the figures that are that "we can judge" is there an abuse here or was an order past the public tender simply necessary? What's important is that the commission, it should be commended not to interfere with work, in some ways I'll say development. You have to make these complaints very clear. There can't be any obstructions here. There must be no delay. Why? Because it depends largely on when an investment is to be completed. One word is time is money. An appeal cannot be filed, and the whole process is suddenly delayed for several months and so on because the deadlines are failing on the one hand. There is enormous political damage to those political options that in some areas fail to implement some programmes, but directly, the greatest damage creates for the citizens themselves who fill that budget. For example, in 2004, you had 833 items. 779 items have been solved. That's 93.5% of you say. It was transferred in 2005 to 54 items or 6.5%, which would say it's more than good if the monthly inflow is 64 items. But I repeat, we need to work out the spot, we need to do it within 30 days so that, in one word, we don't stop the development of this country. Here on page nine, gentlemen, we see who is most in violation of these principles of public procurement? Here we go in a row. So the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Number of items 4, the number of purchases cancelled 4 or 100%. County Road Administration of Dubrovnik-Neretva County. Number of items 5, cancellation of purchases 4.80%. Let's move on. The Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction in 60% of these reported cases violate the principles of public procurement. Croatian Pension Insurance Office in as much as 67%. Then we have the Ministry of Environmental Protection, I said 60%. For others, the same ministry when it builds on its building something without a building permit collapses the building, creates enormous damage to the citizens, and so they allow that committee to, say, break the Public Procurement Act themselves. The Rijeka-Zagreb highway, watch out, number of items 11, there is a number of cancellations of purchases 6, 55%, Ministry of the Interior etc. I'm just glad there are no companies in this case, municipalities in Istria. When I talk about the company, I mean clearly those who are in charge of local self-government. So, the conclusion could in some ways be that the gross irregularities in the ministries, then on these state institutions such as the Road Administrations, the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, large companies, above all clearly INA, HEP, Croatian Railways, FINA, HABOR, etc. So, who's wrong? The wrongs of the state, the mistakes of the state companies INA, HEP, Croatian railways and the state ministries plus these state monopolies are freely said to be 80% of the gross social product or through their hands in some way passes the zena. What just scared me today was that I couldn't believe it, and let's just say in these big trade chains. In the first ten trade chains in 2001 held 26% and last year 55% of the market. Well, you know, gentlemen, what does that do if we ban this kid from working on Sundays? Those who simply suggest these proposals, I dare say, seem paradoxical but, yes, they work simply for these big chains. It's amazing, but the situation is extreme than serious. Finally, if we do not know what certain items have been said to have been invalidated, I will once again discuss this report. And that's why I'm saying, we need to get him back to the promoter. So, if it is said that 11 complaints have arrived for the Rijeka-Zagreb highway and that the commission has annulled 6 such complaints or acquisitions, then you must clearly tell us what these purchases are and how difficult these purchases are, whether they are heavy 10, 20, 50 or 100 million kuna. That's actually what this is about. This way we can find out that the commission is working, that it's up-to-date, it's been transferred, once again I'm going to say, of the 833 cases in 2005 only 54 which is less than the monthly average, but any corruption we'll be able to sanction when the public knows what it's about. It is clear that no one in this House will judge anyone but it is also clear that this House needs to have that information and that the public expects this House to talk about it. Clearly, there must be a series of problems here. For example, the lowest price institute. Well, we all know that she's winding up, so that lowest offer isn't always the most favourable offer. It often goes clearly with the lowest price with the goal of getting a job and everyone knows that this company can't, for example, do it. And there should also be correct, not because someone is prosecuted for something that everyone knows is unfounded when it comes to object, but simply and such cases in some way need to be published in order to stop this manipulation of these and these kinds of offers. For the end, make it clear to the maximum expedition, make it quick. Get out what cases this is about. Public procurement, we're all aware of it, is a polygon of enormous manipulations or can be, to correct, a polygon of enormous manipulations. Individuals are without work thanks to their position primarily to these large state-owned companies from Croatian railways to HEP from this to that of Croatia insurance, etc. Rich. It's going to be less and less, I'm aware of how time goes by, but it's going to be less and less if the purchases are cancelled. Finally, MPs should know something about it or at least have insight into it. Whether it is the County of Istria, whether it is the city of Buzet, Rijeka, Zagreb or the Ministry, I do not know about environmental protection, HEP or anyone else. I repeat, such a report without that information is worthless and if the Parliament had talked about such cases at a closed session, or if the public knew better, and surely the public wanted this information, then the opportunities in this country would be different, and that would be a reminder to all those who would take up certain functions tomorrow. I will no longer look back at the fact that the first ten trade chains in 2001 held 26 and last year 55% of the market, but I will once again say that the main errors in this report have been observed, found in the state and state-owned companies, large state-owned companies and incomparably less local self-government. It is clear that this is not unusual because the state budget is 105.9 billion kuna for this year, while all 569 units of local self-government including the county and the city of Zagreb are 16 billion kuna. So, for the end and Mr Matesic spoke earlier, he should, but he did not state any specific case. I think this Dom is actually looking for specific cases so that you can simply see the extent of the breach of the public procurement institute.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57724	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57725	Your Honor, Mr. President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague of Cain that the exact information relating to the violation of the Public Procurement Act for 2004 is not known. They know each other because we had it at the last session of the State Audit report where it was said exactly that it was worth more than 3 billion 459 million kuna. It is known that the biggest offender was the Croatian Health Insurance Office. After that, the Department of Defense and everyone else. And that's why these two reports were supposed to be seen as a whole, I agree. But all the offenders are listed. The problem here is that these parts are being talked about which they have annulled, and the bigger problem is those purchases that have been unlawfully realised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57726	Thank you. For the club of HNS, respected representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57727	Mr. President, Mr. President of the Commission, colleagues and colleagues. This Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures is a body that needs the Republic of Croatia, a body that is set up relatively well for it and these are reasons why the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party will support this report, but this Commission is actually only at the beginning of its work, it is clearly a tiger of paper or tiger without teeth and, if so, this meaning, which it has had and the effects it has actually had these years, will disappear. Therefore, our task, the task of the Croatian Parliament, if we want this Commission to truly be an important institution in the control of public procurement procedures, and that means, in the fight against corruption in this country, we must carefully consider this report and our proposals, and perhaps by changing the law, allow the Commission to work better than it can at this time. Namely, such a commission as the parliamentary bodies in a highly developed democratic society should and could be above the government of the Republic of Croatia. These bodies should have the power to be, in those powers prescribed by law, the control bodies and the highest institutions of this country, including the Government, because they are parliamentary bodies, but as these bodies are appointed by the parliamentary majority then often do not have that power. I'm not talking about the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, there are several such bodies, various regulatory bodies, etc. who are responsible for the Croatian Parliament, which should be above all the institutions of the executive authority, ready and able to oversee the work of these institutions, but because they ultimately depend on political relations often have no power and it takes long-term work for those bodies to have such a reputation, such power, such independence that they dare to control, question and work on the political majority who chose them. Of course, it is not simple, it takes a long process, so what I'm saying is not going to the expense of the State Commission for the control of public procurement procedures but is talking about the principles that such parliamentary bodies should function. Several, therefore, with this principle of positive support for the work of this Commission, I will also make a series of proposals, i.e. comments on this Report. The first question is why is the report being discussed only today, today in 2006, the 2004 Report, or why was it submitted only in November 2005? These reports should be submitted no later than the end of the first quarter for the previous year so that the problems are fresh, some of these problems are often written and logically discussed by the Croatian Parliament when they are still current, not almost a year after this debate could be held in the Croatian Parliament. That shouldn't happen again. The second question I would like to mention here is the Commission's budget issue. It is almost incomprehensible that in 2004, the year for which this Report of 5 and a half million kuna was applied to the work of the Commission was finally implemented only less than 40%, and then the 2005 budget was reduced, and I don't think the 2005 budget was even met to that reduced extent that the 2006 Budget was reduced, which I personally talked about with this pay phone. It's something that's absolutely inadmissible. The good work of this Commission may provide the state with only 5 or 6 million kuna in one large supply. This is indeed a non-saving question, and if there is a need to implement various support programmes such as the CARS programme that is spoken of here, I have nothing against it, but if the state cannot implement the programmes to a sufficient extent, then at least where they should be saved, these are Commissions, because I repeat one of my good jobs this Commission can prevent or really save more than these several million kunas are the budget for the work of this Commission, and we really do not need to object to the European Commission and the World Bank, because this State Commission has a much smaller number of employees than planned, acts that have been adopted, and for its work there is not enough room for its quality work, and it is really not necessary for us to object to the European Commission and the World Bank again not because of the European Commission and not because of the World Bank, but because of the meaning that this Commission can have in the political and overall social life of this country. Speaking of corruption, which is of course, the work of this Commission is linked to corruption, it should repeat that for the past 3 years, the corruption perception index in the Republic of Croatia has been getting worse and worse, so the "Transparens international" organisation that has been doing type reports on these perceptions of corruption for decades now has been the international perception index in the Republic of Croatia and in the last 3 years it should mean more or less that the state of corruption of our society is getting worse and worse and worse and worse, and that is the question that we must face. One of the instruments for dealing with this issue is this Commission. Then there is our internal Croatian research that we have done in this regard, especially on the perception of Croatian businessmen in terms of corruption which also speak very badly about what Croatian businessmen think about the corruption of state bodies in public procurement procedures, and if you speak privately to an entrepreneur you will not find a man who will tell you that in the public procurement process by state authorities you have a completely clean situation. Almost 99% of the people you're talking to will tell you that there's almost no fair public procurement. That they always need some combinations that then allow those who really didn't deserve to get a job to get that job, which, of course, creates injustice in society and ultimately leads to the devastation of the state budget. Because if something is bought that is more expensive then there will be no money for some other perhaps more important things in the work of the state bodies of the Republic of Croatia. As far as the commission's jurisdiction is concerned, I think the commission's jurisdiction should be a higher net of what, just acting on complaints. The Commission is acting only on complaints and, as Mr President said, complaints are based on his assessment, not on the exact information covered for this year 2004, 8.16% of all public procurement. But it would be good if this commission could act whether or not an appeal has been filed. Who will oversee large stories concerning irregularities or possible irregularities in the procurement process if this commission does not do so? Let's remember the Bechtel story, about trying to get a direct, direct contract of very high work of several billion kunas. Let us remember the conflict between the defence minister and the president over the purchase of trucks that were paid EUR 2 million more than the lowest bid in the competition. Recently, the Government of the Republic of Croatia made a decision to exempt from the procurement process of the truck, for purchase, from the construction of an armored vehicle in a sort of "offset" programme. This, all of these things that I can't judge, of course, were like this or like that, but I'm only talking about what was written about and which also has a negative impact on the perception of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, this commission should do it. The question whether the commission has the strength, the political forces to question a decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, such as the decision to try to make a deal with Bechtel directly. She should finally have that power. But she should certainly have powers beyond the appeal. At that time, it would be not more possibly much than 8.16% because the commission has no capacity but those most problematic cases that bring unrest to the public could be covered by the work of this commission not to immediately be the State Attorney's Office which, of course, also has its limits in this regard. And what's very difficult to understand from the Commission's report that there are no statistics anywhere in this country, complete data on the number of public procurements. Types and values of public procurement. You can't get that information anywhere in this country. That's what the commission's report says, and I think the parent body that should have that kind of data is exactly this commission. Not to mention the questions that this commission is not at all considering the purchases below 20 thousand kunas because these purchases are not being filed with appeal. Because these purchases are very liberal, and we know that the purchases that are more than 20 thousand kunas are broken into purchases that are less than 20 thousand kunas and are then not subject to any regulations, so there is no appeal. And often times and purchases that are larger than 200 thousand kunas are broken into purchases of less than 200 thousand kunas and then re-entered into a more liberal procurement system. These are all issues to be raised when it comes to the Commission's report on the control of procurement procedures. How much of such public procurement, public procurement below 200 thousand kuna in the first category, public procurement below 20 thousand kuna in the second category. The first one's liberal, the second one's even more liberal. There's no possibility of a complaint on her at all. How many of these purchases are made in the overall public procurement procedures in the Republic of Croatia? Not by number, there are certainly many of them but by the real amount of public funds involved in these purchases. We have no answer to these questions and if any body should have a complete overview of such purchases then it should certainly be the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. One more thing about the work of this House, I'll talk about it a little bit more when I speak for myself. I have proposed a parliamentary committee to fight corruption as it is written as the obligation of this Parliament in the anti-corruption programme and the action plan that we have adopted. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system told me that I, as a representative, have no right to propose the establishment of parliamentary bodies. I gave them my initiative neatly. It happened before, I don't know exactly, I will look at it but certainly more than half a year ago, since then, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system has not responded, has not defended that initiative and has not proposed it to the Croatian Parliament. The State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures cannot fight corruption itself. All bodies must contribute to this very important struggle throughout society, and should certainly contribute to the Croatian Parliament. One way is to act on the anti-corruption programme that we brought ourselves a few years ago and it says that the Assembly should establish a Anti-Corruption Committee which, by today's day, has not happened for about 3 years. I repeat, this is a very important body. Not strong enough right now. If we strengthen it, we will contribute much to the orderly execution of public procurement in the Republic of Croatia, and thus to the fight against corruption. And these are the reasons for all these objections that I was talking about why the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57728	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57729	So I'm correcting Mr. President two incorrect allegations from an esteemed colleague, Radosh. First, when he talked about getting a truck at the Department of Defense, it was incorrect that there were media signs. It is true that the State Audit found that the purchase of these trucks was carried out against the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. There are also incorrect claims that there is fair public procurement and unfair public procurement. The Public Procurement Act speaks of legal and illegal public procurement. It seems to me like honest intellectuals and unfair things used before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57730	State Commission President Goran Matesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57731	Thank you, Mr. President. I would actually at Mr Cain's exposés which is not only here for a short time said that the component of this report, which was sent to the Croatian Assembly and the register of the State Commission's case which, for each particular purchase of these 800 recorded, is actually 768 which should be added to those transferred from last year, contains information about the client, the complainant, the subject of purchase, the number of purchases, the type of purchase, the value. Also on the date of the deadline and decision. Therefore, this body has information about what the honourable parliamentary representative was saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57732	Thank you. SDP advocates' club, respected representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57733	Mr. President, President of the Commission, Ministry of Finance, Representative of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues. We are today considering the Commission's first report, the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, and we also want to say that it is a pity that the 2004 Report for this Commission and the State Audit findings have not been discussed at the same session, since both reports have been available to us. We estimate that the State Commission report is good and our club will vote to accept this report. However, we would like to draw attention to the findings of the State Audit in this area, where it is said that, in fact, the most irregularities in the control of the State Audit are actually located in the segment of public procurement. Since there have been some discussions here about what all the commissions would have done, the State Commission for Public Procurement must work to warn that there are actually more supervisory bodies that should control the domain of public procurement. The law on public procurement speaks of the supervision, enforcement of the law and supervision of public procurement, including the Public Procurement Office, which was organised as the Professional Service of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and that it should actually, in the first instance, supervise this area. It should give prior consent, instructions and opinions to users on the application of this law. Collect, record, process, analyse data on acquisitions, etc. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Public procurement laws. In particular, an independent body or public procurement control institute is the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures and which works solely on the basis of the appeal. Therefore, I do not think that some discussions actually consider the right function of the State Commission to monitor public procurement. And so, looking at that segment, we believe that the commission is working well and that this report is well-constituted. Since the report itself calls for us to have insufficient relevant public procurement statistics, I think we should initiate from the Parliament to provide such data through our State Statistics Office. In fact, every year we bring in an annual plan of statistical research and a medium-term plan of statistical research. As we increase the coverage of statistical research year after year, there is no reason why we should not provide data to those who are supposed to conduct surveillance in this particular domain. In further presentation, I would like to repeat certain data from the State Audit findings, in order to be able to consider actually large financial amounts in the area of public procurement. The state audit found that in 2004, 11.2% of the total expenditure and expenditure of audited entities, and in most cases, the State budget amounted to around 9.7 billion kuna. So that's a huge amount spent in public procurement in 2004. At the same time, the State Audit finds that 3.4 billion kuna of public procurement has been carried out, has not been fully implemented in accordance with the regulations, and 91 entire 94 million kuna has been implemented without the application of the rules governing the area of public procurement. And it would actually have to be a problem for us not only of the Government but also of us in Parliament to try to analyze whether the legal bases are good enough to ensure better implementation of public procurement and more rational use of funds for this purpose. The audit also says that of the 45 audited entities 27, 27 identified irregularities in public procurement procedures. And just now the State Audit shows us that the most common reasons for the cancellation of public competitions were next. That no commission was appointed before the start of the procurement process, which was almost incredible that it did not seem. That the decision to set up an expert commission does not contain the prescribed elements, that at least two eligible tenders have not arrived, that the selection bid was not in line with the tendering documents, and that the contracting authority did not specify additional criteria in order of importance and determined their proportionate value. So, even after the current law has been in force for the third year. We've got law violations like this. The Commission therefore controls only the procurement for which the complaint has arrived and according to this statistical data that they give us in this report. In 701 cases, 8.16% of all complaints are based on their assessment of total purchases. But the value isn't that high because they estimated it to be 7.2 million kuna. So compared to the total purchase of 9.7 billion. And that's actually saying that we don't have the right data, but it might also be in favour of many entrepreneurs having significant observations in the way in public procurement. They often do not even appear in such competitions, since such occurrence requires certain material resources, and they are difficult to get jobs, and then they do not decide to engage in the procedure more often. In the end, not all those who feel that for various reasons did not get a job many times or participate in complaints. Thus, the fact is that this is an area where regulations are significantly violated. We must be concerned about what's happening to us, for example. In its report on bribery and corruption, the BRD estimates that even 0.7% of Croatia's income is used for bribery, so if we apply it to this segment in which the state and its institutions participate, it is also a huge financial amount. For this reason, we should not go so easily through this first report of the Commission, but try to see if something needs to be changed in the legislation itself in order to avoid irregularities and violations of the Public Procurement Act. And finally, once again, the SDP club will vote to accept this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57734	Thank you. HSP club, respected representative Miroslav Rožic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57735	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Public procurement procedures in the Republic of Croatia have always been controversial. That's unfortunately today. Namely, the original trend of Croatian leaders who made the purchase, very often and without any competition, and especially the public competition, the engagement of their relatives, friends, colleagues, husband, children, etc. and always at far higher prices than market prices today are replaced by one quasitrendrend of transparency, public and control. And mostly through the establishment of this Commission for the control of public procurement procedures. In fact, public procurement in Croatia has brought out today many prominent businessmen who used to deal with politics, and today there are prominent people with their own companies, both in the country and abroad. Initial funds are most often collected from the procurement business of different things, such as office material, toilet paper, curtain washing, carpet cleaning, information equipment procurement, most often intellectual and personal services, etc. External experts, repairing the roof or editing the interior of the body in which these leaders are to carry out large works of road construction, waterway, sewerage, etc. all where these leaders were located and where they could manage it. However, business people should mostly withdraw, except for a few others, from that world of mixing official function and subsistence. Why? Because, among other things, there's the State Commission for Public Procurement Control. It should introduce order, public, legality, transparency in public procurement. According to the report, the World Bank and the European Commission have said that this agency has only one small shortage, which is that it has inadequate office space, as it stands on page 5 of this Report. Following this, it would be concluded that this expert commission, which she wrote, quotes: "The administrative space is a fundamental issue for the establishment of full and quality work of the State Commission in its law-provoked fullness," the law prescribed fullness. Therefore, the fullness of the activities of this Agency shall not be affected by the fact that the findings of the State Audit Office have identified numerous and numerous irregularities in the procurement process. One third of public procurement has identified irregularities according to the Office of State Audit. And the State Audit Office can determine the ladies and gentlemen of irregularities only in those arrogant and sloppy ones who don't even care how we say "paper" cover their suspicious transactions. Any more perfident, I would say more cunning, or what we like to say in the everyday language, no matter what it means, a state supplier to whom each year the audit comes and who watches the procurement process every year knows how and in what way paper-covers his transactions. They are therefore at no risk to either the State Audit Office or the State Commission for Public Procurement Control. The danger presents something else to them. Coordination of legislation with European standards. In this respect, the changes are prescribed in the area of public procurement, as well as the insistence of the state commission to give its work, to attend courses, symposiums, English translation of public procurement rules to the website, to say the European text. However, ladies and gentlemen should pay attention to the following. The first is the conversion of one department or administration of procurement procedures, i.e. one minor internal organisational unit of the Ministry of Finance into one special body with a special sui generis status outside the Croatian legal organisation. Secondly, it should be observed that by raising these and similar ones, such as the Competition Protection Agency. Therefore, administrative procedures at a higher level than others often and more frequently and professionally demanding administrative procedures such as administrative procedures under the Family Law at the Ministry of Health and Social Care or solving complex cases on the rights of Croatian defenders at the Ministry of Family and Croatian Defence. Third, attention should be paid to changes to the regulations in the way the lower price offered and to the increasing or even banned advantages of Croatian companies. Therefore, under the cover of European requirements that often apply to Croatia alone, it is likely that one system is being set up where all areas in which large amounts of money is being seized by large foreign capital. In this sense, he had already mastered the capital to banks, profitable businesses, and he had taken a significant share of the pension market and is now trying to master and take a large part of the health system. For example, by reducing the rights at national level, some of the users will pass the money on to private health insurance and clinics of foreign companies they already have as much as you want in Croatia. And, of course, she's trying to manage public procurement as well. In public procurement, big money turns around, I don't know how much we're all aware of it, so here he would ask the director or president of the agency how many millions, billions or tens of billions of kunas are turning in Croatia in public procurement procedures. And does he think if he doesn't know that information that anyone in this country should know, even if this body that's being filed with this report is? Whether it's billions or tens of billions or hundreds of billions in public procurement, however, it's a huge amount of money. And of course, every big capital will try to take that one significant piece of cake. So that nothing depends on the will of the so-called. rural ethic factors or, as some defiledly like to say in our public life, some hearthists will be created according to this plan one planetary fair condition, conditions for market struggle. So on the occasion of this country, they will come out without any hidden cards on equal terms and equal terms, for example Coca-Cola Company and agricultural cooperatives, say "Sources of the foothills" or "Joža" d.o.o. Of course, no one comes to mind that there's any dispute about equal competition, but the report from this commission assures us that the State Commission for Public Procurement Control will solve all the problems when it gets new and better offices. Of course, then the World Bank and the European Commission mention only one shortage of this agency and these are inadequate offices. So if it is indeed so, then I propose on behalf of the HSP Club that this control agency, or this public procurement control commission, be provided by the World Bank’s equipment, of course by applying a procurement tender. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57736	Thank you. The HSS Club is a respected representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57737	Dear Mr. President, honourable representatives of the State Commission for Public Procurement Control, colleagues and colleagues! It is unquestionable that public authorities play a very significant role in the modern market both as buyers and as sellers. Public authorities today are fully creators of the relationship of the situation in every modern economy. The fundamental requirements put forward by public authorities are very simple in terms of public procurement. These are the transparency of procedures, openness to everyone and non-discriminatory relations with anyone. These are the fundamental assumptions of any public procurement that public authorities must advocate and worry about applying these principles. Has the public authorities in Croatia completed these three key tasks with regard to public procurement? In her first report to the Croatian Parliament, did the state commission best support these basic requirements that public authorities should have? Reading this report requires one opinion that the independence of the commission itself is almost questionable. If it is read that office space at this point unfortunately shares with the Ministry of Finance, that they have very modest conditions of their work and activities, that they have a very modest budget, that they have very few employees. And so, I will dare to clearly speculate that they don't even have the best personnel equipment, that this team that has to deal with the best teams on the other side that are competing to get public jobs, that this team simply doesn't have any conditions to oppose this other team that has almost everything. He's got power, he's got money, he's got lawyers, he's got lawyers, he's got infrastructure, he's got almost everything you need to be dominant, and that those principles of public procurement just can't play in our terms. Neither the principle of openness nor the principle of non-discriminatory relations. So we have two uneven sides. We have one who looks and records and like a very moderate weather forecaster says: Today in Zagreb, there is light snow, and it may be this afternoon. It can be almost the same with the same certainty as any citizen if he comes out of the window and really sees that there is one light snow. So the Commission's problem, the problem of public procurement, is far broader and, of course, this commission, with all the support that the HSS Club gives this Commission's work, is that this Commission cannot achieve what the distinguished colleagues have discussed and what they have warned about. Whether Croatia has its specialities with regard to all other countries, particularly the countries of the European Union. Of course there is. In the European Union, the exposure to public procurement is about 25% of public procurement. Which is very, very big if compared to nominal amounts. Of course, in Croatia to say so, the public procurement market is actually the main market. The main players compete on that very market. The biggest competition under quotes exists under the market. The major disturbances, including the largest political lobbying, are used to gain power in the market. The largest number of politicians are currently fighting for that market. Why? Well, because it's obviously easier and cheaper on him, and it's also more quality work than on someone else. Therefore, whether we recognize it or not, the public authorities and public procurement in Croatia are unquestionable. This Commission is not a judge who can handle himself in such an unequal manner in order to resolve exactly the intransparency and discrimination that definitely exists today. It exists equally within the central public authority and at lower levels. And lower levels. It's just how our system works. So that we can deal seriously with the consequences and the consequences of us when we look at the competitiveness of the Croatian economy and when we look at the first 5 indicators that say why the competitiveness of the Croatian economy is at this level, and not in another, then we have the first one, between the first three is the system of public procurement, tax policy and doubt that under the same conditions you can get a job in the game with someone else. So these are very serious reasons to meet the State Commission as soon as possible not only in that external event to give them offices, to increase the number of employees, but to put them in a position to try to be judges by just laying down the law, to change the law. To try to arbitration within the content of the problem. The content of the problem isn't just an appeal that's gonna come because the complaints, you know who's sending the complaint into the procurement process? Well, the one who's a loser almost lost faith that anyone can hurt him. They've made a serious deal in advance: this year is yours, the second one's mine. Therefore, the Commission should address the content of a problem that is deep, which is painful, which cannot eliminate nor remove this government, but must be a common action plan and a goal that we must pursue. To do that, we need to be absolutely clear. We can't call this report good. We should call him who he is. He's technically fine because he's first. We haven't had another until now. He indicates the force of the problem. And that's really good for us at the HSS Club. He's just shy because at this point, it's the only way he's gonna show all the strength of the problems that exist in this area. Of course, there is a large number of public procurements made under the rules. Of course, it should be analytically contained, to look at what is happening to those who are within the legal framework. You see, there's one very interesting piece of information. The European Commission launched a full set of fighting packages for transparent public, public procurement in 2003 and 2004 as part of a legislative package against corruption in public procurement. And she had very clear goals about it. Complete economic reforms were implemented within the European Union in 2003 and 2004 in order to see, analyse and try to reduce the price of payment of services paid by public authorities for certain goods or services. And on February 3rd 2004, they concluded that within a year and a half, such a reform that was comprehensive managed to reduce prices by 30%. Until then, it was inconceivable that in a relatively short time a powerful undertaking could be done because the price reduction did not just win the benefit of the public authority. It has also created order in this game, which is less than in Croatia as a percentage, but is very important for the functioning of the overall economic system. Therefore, the public authorities always send a message. If the public authority, if the State is responsible for treating the economy and regularly pays those to whom it is due, regularly charges from those who owe it then the public authority shall send a message that the system is functioning. When public authorities don't do so and don't pay their suppliers in time, so they stay in debt to a citizen or anyone else then they generate precisely those actions that slow down the economy, stop a good position in both fiscal and monetary policy. Therefore, it is always the public authority that, regardless of the so-called dying state in terms of participation in the economy, always generates a good or bad side. The Commission has a very demanding task. It needs to be given maximum support, but it needs to be arranged for ways of action both in relation to the State Audit and in relation to the Commission, as well as the Public Procurement Act, which must be more high quality, which must leave the Commission’s space of entry into that substantial part of public procurement where there was no appeal, in which there was no opposition to anyone. Because you know basics and there's no appeal. It's all agreed before. But that can't be why the commission doesn't get into the content of these relationships. That can't be the reason. Moreover, we have to go, we have to make an action plan that in the next year, two, and we get to the point that everything that public procurement contains is reduced by 20%. Are we sure there's no room in road construction, both in construction and in all kinds of infrastructure construction, that we can't cut the price by 10, 15 or 20%? On what basis would they say that? We don't have the usual evaluation analysis based on which we could judge it. So we at the HSS Club think it's a good thing this first report came. We believe that it must definitely not look like it is today for the next year. We believe that the Law on Public Procurement needs to be amended and brought into line with the needs of public authorities and public procurement in line with the needs and guidelines that the modern world has and which it has managed to address and create trust relations in this part as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57738	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57739	I'd like to correct the inaccuracies that my colleague Markov said. He says the commission should deal with the content of the problem. It doesn't say that anywhere in the law. This commission is a kind of shoulder to cry on. She has nothing to do with the content of the problem. That's what the Public Procurement Office needs to deal with. It's a completely different body.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57740	The second correction by the honourable representative, Plasimir Sabati.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57741	Mr. President, I would like to correct my colleague Markov's incorrect claim. It's probably a lapus or I don't know how to interpret it. He said that in serious business, everything had already been pre-arranged. Of course, that is certainly not true, and at the very least it causes a certain ambiguity. In fact, this is not in line with the Public Procurement Act, and we all need to work together to make sure that there is no way or opportunity to negotiate any solutions in advance before the offers are opened. I suppose my colleague Markov thought he still had such relapses, but I forgot to say so so he wouldn't remain in such a ambiguous sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57742	11.33 timed out for an individual debate on this point. Club representatives of HSLS respected representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57743	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed presidents of the commission and the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I think this report also clearly shows that it is not possible to place a sign of equality between the Croatian state and Croatian society. The battle for the Croatian state is won, but this does not mean that we have solved all relations within our Croatian society. It is precisely the disappointment of many people that comes from this fact that when the state gets it, all the problems will be solved. Unfortunately, there are always those in society who, in some other illegal ways, want to get ahead, want to realize their political power, their economic power and that is evident and Croatian society is also not immune and it seems to me that we are in this fight for Croatian society here at the beginning. It creates just an uneasy feeling of that society’s imperfection, and it certainly creates imperfection. Here's this report reminds me of this recent report by my colleague Šima Krasic on behalf of the State Audit when she actually says in advance that it's incomplete and that we don't actually have the complete link, all the information that is needed, and then how do we behave? It's like we've got it. As if everything was offered, as if we knew everything and should be made I don't know the conclusions, recommendations, and I'm afraid that's actually not possible in the opening statement Mr Matesic said just that. In some ways, I had the feeling that we had in front of us, that he was talking about what was not in this report, and that now one of us would have to figure it out and have to take on a very important political responsibility I don't know that he judges this report. I'm saying, although we're in advance aware of his imperfections, his shortcomings, his imperfections, and that's what actually brings us into a very uncomfortable situation. But we can say I don't know the first kittens throw themselves in the water. This is the first report. It has, it suffers from certain of these weaknesses. There are problems with the office, there are problems with the expertise, with the training and so and then sometimes you wonder, well I can agree with that, with some things you have to start to just the first and first time around the world is moving with the first step, and so is the action of this committee that we all agree on is very important. She's a body that fits this Parliament. Parliament has given it a certain mandate and we expect it to do the same in those five years. Public procurement certainly, here you say it's the fact that there's a lot of money going around. We don't know exactly how much money, but there's a lot of money going around, and as soon as it's about money, it's immediately about how it's about how these money's being spent, how certain tenders are being won, whether there are certain benefits in our society, or whether there are exactly ones in our society that want us to say the forces that want to cut the road short, or whether they're actually making the Institute of Competitions very funny, and that what some of them said here knows everything before the game started. There is, and let's not run from that fact, from this sad or rough fact, it's part of political folklore, not with understanding in Croatia, but simply, you can read the same in the media about what's going on in England. Some ministers are now under investigation, suspended. In Germany, France, means in all countries and these high, these standards in the fight for their society. And to those transition countries and third world countries that are everywhere, somewhere more somewhere less. These indices are being thrown out, and then it is really just being agreed on how much business is possible or how burdened it is with these elements that certainly do not belong to those standards and those modern, democratic society. And I'm saying, right now, aware of all these weaknesses and aware of all these actual imperfections that one process of creating these control mechanisms is to begin, we are, however, our task is to bring these negativity down to, or try to shut them down, to detect them and in some way what the public expects us to do and to sanction the behavior of those who participate in this game, I say, in this way that we should certainly not participate. I think that colleague Cain was talking about exactly what really means the importance, the promptity and speed of reacting to this commission. Because certainly time is money and that, that in the game you always have a position when you're an investor when you invest something, and in another position you're the one who participates who isn't satisfied with it and who thinks, I don't know that in any way is damaged. Here's a colleague when I go out to this pay phone colleague Markov says, alluding to a long-standing experience from local self-government, I actually saw the same thing, there was no project, there was no investment that wasn't composing, or says the charter, the street already knew in advance who was going to get it. Some times she was pleasantly surprised when she didn't, when her prognosis didn't come true, but sometimes it happened and you just happened to be in a very awkward situation. And yet on the other hand, you were tasked with carefully disposing with taxpayers' money, and you didn't care how some competitions would go, how quickly certain problems, certain or complaints, will be solved. Right now, we have to say here that we don't misstate a complaint, you know. And regrets were very often also politically motivated, precisely so that some processes, some projects would be expanded or simply that you... In front of the public. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So things aren't exactly as simple as they might seem at first sight. That's... Any complaint that she's correct. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what colleagues in this report show. Here is this famous Croatian radio television that we recently discussed here the number of items 12, the number of unsecured purchases none. It means almost that, apparently, there are and to say certain people who after those on-call writers and complaints just for appeal or. Here again, let's say it's a little strange that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development has actually dropped every competition it's actually on this Commission. And exactly what we should certainly avoid, which is that some future reports should be as incomplete as possible, that we have as much information as possible, that we know really how many bribes of money are being debated, that they take away this fact that we act as if we know everything, and actually we're facing this half or incomplete information. And yet to make one whole, we still need something more. And on the other hand, we just need to fight that perception, such as a bad perception in public procurement, that it is somehow trying to show that these competitions make sense and that they really win the best ones and that they really give offers that are in line with all those principles that both colleagues Markov and talked about. However, that neither the institution nor the institution should be mystified on our part, since it is our body that is, as soon as possible, to meet, at least in this formal plan, all its obligations. But here I am as a representative myself, I will ask some perhaps slightly smaller and popular questions, but as a representative citizens call you and I hope you will not take them underprivileged but simply as questions that will help you to remove certain doubts. Has the President of the State Commission published the Commission's Statute in the "national papers"? This would allegedly have to be done on the basis of Article 2 paragraph 1(6). Law on the State Commission for Public Procurement Control. He says here, I've received information that there's a suspicion that this statute doesn't exist or that it was adopted in that legal procedure. I mean, it'll help us. Does the State Commission have or does it not have legal acts to adopt the basis of the laws and regulations on the work of the State Commission for the control of public procurement procedures and the Internal Design Regulation and the same Commission? How does this Commission work? College decisions or decisions are made in a different way? It's also very important that we know this decision-making process here. Then, what is the relationship between the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures and the Government Public Procurement Office? I have a feeling that this, or be complementary and compatible, so that cooperation is whether or not this cooperation exists. If it doesn't exist, if there's a good one, but if there's no reason it doesn't exist. It's actually all the things that we as a club might be able to do more clearly to identify ourselves against this report that I'm saying we won't, but really to act like, we've got to stick our heads in the sand and we don't really understand all the problems. I say, when we are truly aware of this inconsistencies, there is no balance sheet of the Republic of Croatia. If you don't have that clear balance, then you really can't talk about this, competently about all aspects of this report. That's why I'm saying, we'd take this report to our knowledge. It will depend on many of your answers, which we believe you do not take them for granted at all but simply as an attempt to speak them to the public, both on the Statute and on the way you work and on legal acts and on cooperation with another institution that is somehow compatible and complementary precisely about your work you do. And by doing so, in fact, some other debates concerning the fight against corruption where the very segment of public procurement has a very important role to play. That we, like this Parliament, make a contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57744	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57745	Thank you very much. A fellow Kramarić as a public authority was alluding to the first report saying that the first kittens, they are already dangerous tigers, they know how to swim and dive and nothing can happen to them, and otherwise I am also against throwing little kittens into the sea as an animal lover, clearly.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57746	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57747	I am correcting the incorrect allegations of a distinguished colleague, Kramarić. He didn't say to the sea, but he said to throw kittens in the water, but here's the problem with the taxpayer's money being thrown into the air. The other is an incorrect quote, and it's only natural that I'm in favor of not throwing kittens in the water at all. The second thing is that Mr Kramaric said that the data relating to the taxpayer's spending of money in this way are unknown, it is known that for 2004, according to the report of the State Audit of 9 billion kuna, 3 billion kuna, 459 million kuna, is one third spent against the Public Procurement Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57748	And the esteemed representative of Zvonimir Sabati.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57749	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd actually try to react to three incorrect allegations. The idea of the street and the charter as Mr. Representative said and already knows who's going to get the job, I have to react to it, because it doesn't give a good message to the public, means that more or less all the tenders are pre-arranged and so I want to send out of this House a message that everything is done in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. And second thing, future, second amendment. So the wish was for future reports to be as incomplete as possible, to be as much information as possible, financial indicators. We're supposed to be here quite...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57750	My fellow corrections, not comments. What you're correcting is Agent Kramaric. You comment, express some wishes what should be.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57751	No, I'm fine. I fixed it myself that the street couldn't know if it was working according to the law, so it can't say it. Also, future reports will be as incomplete as possible, as much information as possible. Well, that's not the point, that's incorrect because I think future reports must be as short as possible because it should be as soon as possible to appeal as... law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57752	HDZ representative club, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57753	Dear Mr. President, distinguished representatives of the State Commission. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the State Commission's report on the control of public procurement procedures in the first row in support of the two basic principles, which is the principle of protection of the freedom of competition and the principle of legality on which not only the report is based but also the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2004. I would also like to point out that the jurisdiction, manner of conduct and powers of the State Commission for the control of the procurement procedure are prescribed in the first order of the Public Procurement Act, and then the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, which defines it as a central, independent and independent body of the State administration with the basic task of conducting the appeal procedure, and against decisions taken in public procurement procedures and for the whole country. This is precisely the case with Article 64 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The public procurement law also provides for all those situations when the State Commission actually responds to illegalities in the public procurement process, it also decides in a way that it must cancel the decision itself when such situations have occurred, and I recall that there are four basic reasons why the State Commission must, therefore, repeal the decision of the contracting authority, and these are of course situations if at least two acceptable tenders have not arrived, then if, before the deadline for submission, the tendering documents have to be substantially changed. The third situation if the price is the most favourable offer higher than the planned or secured procurement funds and the fourth, of course, if there are other changed circumstances and the conclusion of the contract is no longer in the public interest and competition will not be repeated during the financial year. Therefore, the basic role of the State Commission consists of the fact of decision-making by appeal, i.e. the complaint referred to the contracting authority. In order to protect its rights, the tenderer or the competitor involved in the tendering procedure may, within three days of receipt of the written selection decision, make an appeal to the contracting authority for the purpose of the observed irregularities in the procurement process. The deadline for filing an appeal is 8 days from receiving the customer's reply, but the maximum 15 days from the day of submission of the complaint to the contracting authority. However, two things need to be pointed out here. So, firstly, that the contracting authority must act on the solution of the State Commission and secondly, that the decision of the State Commission on appeal is final, which means that an administrative dispute can therefore be initiated against the solution before the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia, however, in this sense the second-degree character or decision of the Commission itself has the character of finality in resolving the very things that arise from the basis of the statement of appeal. Furthermore, I stress that it should be pointed out that in 2004, the State Commission, which therefore stems from the present report, resolved 779 cases, and the number of cases filed in 2004 was 31, representing a total of 4% compared to the number of cases completely resolved. So the total was in the review of 779 cases of which the complaint was rejected in 109 cases, the proceedings were suspended in 63 cases, and the complaint was rejected in 234 cases. It should be noted that in 373 cases the complaint was adopted, which is 47.8%, therefore. So almost, or in 50%, or half of the complaints made, we can conclude that there were irregularities which, as such, the State Commission, in terms of resolution by appeal and accepted, which, in fact, resulted in analising the public procurement process itself. Although the statistics on the number of public procurements, types, items and values were not followed or not followed in one place, and the fact that according to the public procurement notices in the "National Journal" in 2004, 8 thousand 675 public procurement notices can therefore be found to be legal protection in the form of an appeal before the State Commission for the nominal amount of 708 or 8.16%. Finally, the Government of the Republic of Croatia’s opinion, therefore, since 9 February 2006, has been the subject of the report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, but just as seen in the light of the legal provisions governing the competence and manner of the Commission's own handling of public procurement procedures, should therefore absolutely be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57754	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57755	Thank you, Mr. President, highly respected gentlemen from the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. Personally, as my SDP Club supports this report. The report itself shows what problems these are in public procurement. The Commission is an independent regulatory body, which corresponds to the Parliament, but decides as a small court, only in the segment of the complaint. Which we now have from the report had the opportunity to hear, that this is a small percentage, 8.16% of total public procurement. This debate on the report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedure takes place at the time of the delay of the judicial screening where the European Union directly sent word to Croatia and what we ourselves know, that Croatia has a general problem with corruption. Unfortunately, in the last two years, the problem has deteriorated. Things are still back there. Croatia sinks in the perception index, in the assessment of perception by 9 index points. And that is something that provides, something that requires discussion, rather than requires both concrete and most concrete measures, including this Croatian Assembly. So perhaps even in this segment for submitting the State Commission's report as well as here and under the law, we can do whether or not we are going to change the laws that control this area. There is an impression, namely in the public, that there have also been observations by individual representatives and justified that not every public procurement is illegal, that it is not immoral, that it is not unfair. But precisely from those areas, and from those cases that are adequately neither combative nor disabling, then the public has this general and justifiable negative attitude in obtaining public procurement jobs because they get the impression that most of these jobs have been set up. Also, the direct possibility and the high likelihood of corruption have been decided here, and politicians are called directly. Then what are you gonna do about it? The public therefore considers public procurement to be a matter of amorality and corruption. It is one of the biggest mistrusts then in fulfilling the function of the state and its segments, but not only of the state but also of the authorities of the local self-government units. How are public procurement done? Is everything by law, or what is an even bigger problem, what are manipulations? These manipulations that are not even possible in a formal way to combat through positive legislation, which are known to the public. Which competitors, especially those who didn't get jobs, are famous. Who are known in local self-government units, how individuals always get jobs and how they are done. So just detecting these phenomena can mobilize us here to change the legislation in the sense that we make such phenomena impossible. And make it easier for the business and the institutions themselves. One of the modes of the operandium to appear on the ad and that as the most favourable bidders, with the most economically favourable offer that has no machines at all, that have no workers, but have co-operatives. Unfortunately, that's what they get, such a country pays off, but they don't pay off co-operatives. Look at the number of court disputes. Most of it stems from public procurement procedures, but not just because the state didn't pay. The state pays off and there's no debtor, but it doesn't pay off those who got jobs, they don't have machines that for work, which are done by cooperatives very, very cheaply and other short sleeves. We all know about these phenomena and nobody knows anything. Because it was the most economically profitable offer. However, it also concerns that precisely in the control procedure carried out by the Commission for the control of the procedure where exactly the largest number of illegalities was in line with this criterion, the criteria for selecting bidders with the most economically favourable offer, therefore, that the law itself was not complied with. The second modus operandi is to abuse this institute by public invitation to public procurement that does not exceed 200 thousand kuna. Because those jobs should then be very, very specific. The truth is that somewhere there is no time to wait through this, because it is a smaller purchase price, that is, business. But the practice has shown that a whole series of jobs are being abused and that these big jobs are being crisscrossed like this into parts that don't cross 200 thousand kunas just so it can be avoided, or it can avoid this public procurement process, and then the question of why is that. So that we can get jobs selected. Even if that's not how it gets the impression in the public that that's how it is. But public authorities must be transparent. Public government should be imagined even when it's done by law, and it creates the impression that that's not the case. So, what else do you do in that job to make him more transparent and better? And so in this very generally poor assessment of the corruption of the country, in the criticism of our legislation on public procurement, the non-compliance of the European public procurement directive is waiting for us and a painful screening of precisely public procurement, what is this government doing? Changes to the Public Procurement Act where it enables, therefore, in this and such an alarming situation, instead of improving the situation, to improve the public procurement law, which allows state-owned public undertakings to obtain and negotiate goods outside the law, i.e. exclude them from the previous obligation and from existing laws which allow, or which order other participants to comply with that law. So why exceptions, instead of being exactly the law that will sharpen these elements, which will make them more transparent, that will detect the problems of those where some kind of rubber norms that then create many misunderstandings and dissatisfactions in public have a reverse situation. Everywhere in the world here and there are problems and problems and lawyers of the general legislative authority, economic experts, but the general public are also at the heart of this problem. So, many countries as well as here have been highlighted by representatives of some clubs dealing with this problem, i.e. to remove the inability of these negativitys. Let's just think of a big affair with Bechtel when it was claimed that everything was fine, that this economic, firstly, had to be concluded... So after the analysis, it showed that this was not the case, it was one big public mess, the public got up, the opposition rose, and eventually the government gave in just because the Damocles sword was hanging over it from the European Commission's opinion, and then what did the competition show later? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That this job that was meant for Bechtel for 40 million was more expensive for Bechtel was secured. Let's just think of a "suny Hvar" also an affair where the public got excited, where those responsible claimed right in the government that the competition was not necessary. And so this whole series of affairs that have occurred, but which have just been prevented from public activity talking about the need to build society, democracy, but also to call the public authorities not to allow in this sense these test balloons such as Bechtel and "sunish Hvar" by the system if it passes, but to simply create a system in which Bechtel, "sunish Hvar" in the way they were tried in public, to be presented simply that it will not be possible and then what we as a Parliament can do, are all dissatisfied with the powers of the State Commission itself, but then it is necessary to extend its legal possibilities, and what we must and what we can do at this moment to get them...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57756	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57757	...to give them space and working conditions because they have more inaccurate spaces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57758	Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57759	The Honorable President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Honorable President of the Commission. I think we should place this report in the context in which it was created, so the Commission was appointed at the end of 2003 by law adopted in the same year and de facto this report on the work of the State Commission in the first year of its five-year term. So it was created at the moment the Commission itself was creating its own experience, creating certain rules, when it defined its positions, when ultimately the personnel teamed up. Second, it should be said that there is only talk here about the public procurement procedures to which someone has objected, or to which the appeal is referred. The total public procurement in the Republic of Croatia is controlled by the State Audit through the process of reviewing municipal, urban, county state budget and the budget of public enterprises. So here we can really talk about only one very narrow segment of public procurement where someone had a need for some reason to make a complaint. Furthermore, our Public Procurement Act is ambiguous, ambiguous from a whole series of things and therefore you have a situation that, now perhaps even a little harshly said that there is almost no contest that cannot fall in the Republic of Croatia, especially if it is bigger, if the more complex systems are obtained and if you define an additional criterion which is not only the price because I think the price can not always be a criterion for a particular purchase. So what's cheapest doesn't always have to be the best. This is shown over time and because unfortunately we do not only have a ambiguous Public Procurement Act, we have a very bad Construction Act because the Construction Act, for example, gives protection to the performer, not to the investor, because the performer gives a guarantee of what he has done since he was only two years old, and to the constructive elements for 10 years. So, for example, if a third year's parquet is dried up, you have a hole in the parquet, then the more performer doesn't answer for it, and of course he'll offer a cheaper parquet, less glue, worse masters who'll set it to simply stick to the water until the masters hold water until the masters leave and there's a problem with the Public Procurement Act. The public procurement law should primarily protect citizens, i.e. to protect budget money. Unfortunately, I think that it does not do it well enough and indeed this debate on this report, and it would be particularly good for the Commission to subscribe and experience to us, not just statistical figures, but to really give us experience, which is why the actual reasons for cancelling certain competitions were to complete the Public Procurement Act and ensure that those who want to do what they want are doing is to make sure that they succeed in their competitions regardless of what I'm talking about right now. The problem is this, therefore, if you have a public procurement procedure and if someone complains to you then whether the complaint is justified, whether the complaint is warranted or even whether the complaint is made by an authorised person, the Commission will control the whole procurement procedure. Therefore, not what someone complained about but will control the overall public procurement process and if an irregularity is found in any of the elements of the procurement procedure, the Commission will, as a rule, decide that the tender is to be annulled. Now, the question arises if something is therefore negligible in this procurement procedure and if there is a cancellation of this public tender and the content of the competition is fine. So, the procedure has been carried out, and the most favourable bidder has been chosen, and the funds are secured and everything else we cancel this public tender, we instruct the investor to carry out the re-competition. The re-competition process lasts for two and a half to three months. For example, we lose one construction season. Is that how we protected taxpayers' money? Because, therefore, the money was secured in the budget, not the investment that was to be made. That money will not be used and citizens will not be able to use what was to be made. Did we really protect the budget money then? Because this is where the commission doesn't control the content of what's being obtained. The Commission shall control, above all, the form, whether or not a public competition procedure has been implemented. Well, for example, I have an example where the commission cancelled the tender but says the bidder of this appeal has equally submitted an unacceptable offer. So whoever complained made an unacceptable offer. One of the reasons for the cancellation was the following. It is said that the only original or public-booked copy of the profit and loss account and balance sheet on which the stamp of the tax administration's competent exposures is a credible document. Now we're asking a question here, which is why we're talking about the law being ambiguous, which is the corporate balance. Is the corporate balance of what the company's administration determines, or is the company's balance sheet what the tax administration's seal is?- I'm sorry. The tax administration's seal means that the balance sheet is transferred to the tax administration, but the company's balance sheet is what the company's administration adopted at its session of the company's administration or if it is an individual who has defined by his act. Therefore, this is not, in my view, a reason which could have been considered to be an objection to the procurement process but those who did not have such an investor should have determined that they had not proven their ability. Since they had not proven their ability, they were not two valid offers, and therefore the commission said the procurement process should be annulled. What would happen if the investor went to the administrative court? The procedure would take two, three years, possibly to annul the commission's solution. What would happen then? What is the final result of this procedure if, for example, the administrative court hypothetically annuls this solution? Could you assign a job in that public tender? Can the budget and the citizens wait two or three years to assign a job under the procedure? These are, therefore, all issues that should certainly be fully defined in the Public Procurement Act, i.e. the Commission should draw up from this experience which has simply one public procurement practice where we would draw up some rules from these cases that would be handled and where investors would know in advance that the Commission would react to a certain procedure or to a particular remark. We do not have such a valid practice of public procurement today because, ultimately, it is very short-lived in itself, so for several years and the commission is only today in the second or third year of its term of office. We should do everything to protect the investor, so citizens, or to protect the tax money. But we don't protect tax money if, for formal reasons, less nature, we cancel the tender and delay the execution of certain jobs. Similarly, the competition is annulled if it exceeds the purchase value of one kuna. For example, you can have a tender for a device, machine, road, Split bypass where the budget will define that it costs 95m euros but you have received an offer where the lowest offer is 95m euros and one kuna and you have to cancel that tender. You have to go back to the big procurement process, it's an international tender, it'll take three, four months. You're just losing the whole season. Is that really why public procurement should be annulled in such situations? So you have to figure out where there are fewer formal inconsistencies if you can say it like that. And secondly, where there is a conscious violation of the procedure, just as the question arises when you call a public tender and you don't get two offers, valid offers. So, what is it then? Should budget money really wait another three months to make that investment? In any case, I appeal to the Commission not only to put complaints on this but also to its own solution and to define one public procurement practice which will be an addition to the Public Procurement Act to allow the real public procurement to be carried out in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57760	Thank you very much. We have two corrections. First, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57761	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, it was interesting to hear this debate. And the whole debate, which is the correction of the incorrect allegations, concerns the adoption of the Public Procurement Act, where Mr. Mršić will not cancel a public tender as was the case for the pool, as was the case for the collector. Therefore, say openly bring the law that I can do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57762	Correction of the incorrect allegations by Ms. Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57763	Yes, Mr. Mršić incorrectly said there could be two balance sheets. I can't. Therefore, according to the Accounting Act and the various laws governing this area, the company has one single balance which is accepted by the administration and which is delivered to the tax administration and is the only credible situation of a company. Therefore, the Public Procurement Act makes it quite clear what kind and which balance should be delivered for the competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57764	Thank you very much. Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57765	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, before I begin my debate, I am expressing a protest against the way you conduct the session. Calm down, fellow Kovacevic, who throws and insults, and besides that, he corrects under the wrong assumption that he is actually correcting nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57766	You have no right to protest here. I didn't hear anything Mr. Kovacevic said. And you can't tell what the chairman will do. I will act in accordance with my rules of procedure as I have so far. And you choose to present your debate and not always some kind of protest of yours and some of your criticisms around everyone. You have ten minutes, please state your position.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57767	Thank you very much. This report is good, correct, transparent, clear and in that sense should be accepted. I have an objection to the date of his submission. Yes, the Law, Article 9, says the commission is obliged to do so, submit a report to the Parliament once a year on the work and state of public procurement for the past calendar year. And that's what you respected. You sent this to Parliament on 2 December 2005 for 2004. The report has 14 pages. So I wonder what took you 11 months to put together 14 pages? You must decide very quickly within very short deadlines, and there is no point in the Parliament discussing last year's snow. This time we're discussing last year's snow. About things that happened in 2004. Then no, there's no need for that. You could have done it a little earlier, and at least in the following year, we're discussing it in 2004 and it's sort of order. The second remark I have on this report is about the transparency of work, the public's work as you called it. You're boasting about the website. That website's no good. There's news about your work, your practice and your patterns and decisions says it's all about making. In the legislation, the law on you, about the State Commission, is inaccessible, it doesn't open. Therefore, you can edit this website a little bit so that the citizens who are coming, who are interested, who access your website to benefit from it. And not that website there's a form running. Okay. Those are the remarks. This report of yours provides an indicative picture of the state of public procurement. And now what's that picture? It's not ideal, it's not catastrophic. The State Audit report is much worse. ... We're discussing here the State Audit report, then we see that it's almost 1/3 of the public procurement that's going on illegally. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Where's the difference? It's clear what makes the difference. State audits all the facilities audits even when there's no complaints. You only act on complaints and in this sense you are a control mechanism and there is clear that there is a statistical difference. Whatever. This institution of yours is an important, important institution, necessary, useful in this society. Why? First of all, corruption becomes the central problem of Croatian society. She's so all present. Health corruption, judicial corruption is often linked. Here's the other day we had a case that one, the municipal court in a civil suit, had decided to take the damage, that the doctor who received the bribe had to return 5,000 marks and at the same time went into oblivion because of an apparent corruptive act that was so indirectly in the civil case proved to be a corrupt act, but the criminal proceedings went into obsolescence. So now we have corruption not only in health care but also in the judiciary which so corrupt in health obviously doesn't want to sanction. Corruption in the state administration, corruption in politics, in the purchase of mandates, which is certainly a corrupt act, a corrupt act. In a million kunas to independent MPs, the introduction to corruption. Corruption in state-owned enterprises and ministries that this report of yours testifies to, because corruption in these bodies is the most possible through public procurement. Here is the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Croatian Pension Insurance, HEP, highway Rijeka-Zagreb, FINA, National Novine, Croatian Forests, Croatian Railways and so on. They're all state-owned companies. They're all state-owned companies that didn't follow the Public Procurement Act. Now why isn't someone following the Public Procurement Act? Well, or I don't know the law. He can make a mistake by accident. It can be, as Mršić says, a minor mistake, but whether it is important or irrelevant, the law must be followed. The laws exist because we all stick to them. And when your commission sets up and cancels some kind of contest, then clearly someone didn't follow the law. Now why doesn't someone stick to the law? I'm either saying he doesn't know the rules or he accidentally makes a minor mistake or he wants to give himself and the others some kind of benefit, an unsuitable benefit. So we're here on the verge of corruption if we haven't crossed that threshold. The same goes for the ministries. Here they are. Ministry of Environment, Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Health and Social Care, Ministry of Justice, administration and local self-government. That's what happens here. And we will now accept that report. All right, and it's okay and that we're gonna accept it, too. It's okay. I wonder what's next. What's next? What good is it that you followed this, that you wrote this? That you have submitted this to the Parliament, that we are discussing this today and that we accept this report, and we will accept it, which says that six ministries and I don't know how many state-owned companies have failed to comply with the law and that nothing follows from that. This report of yours would have to be accompanied by some conclusion that this House would have made about what these bodies we've established, you've established as an independent body and sent such a report to the Parliament that they didn't comply with the law. Because if one Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 4 objections is found to have all 4 complaints, all 4 complaints were justified and 4 cancellations followed, then there is something wrong. Then the bells ring at the alarm. Then someone has to answer for it. Because it can't be. Well, we can't say right now, so come on. Four complaints, four cancellations, and very important. Let's move on. If the MIP of 8 complaints finds that the complaints are justified or cancels those 4 competitions, someone in the MUP must respond. Well, I'm not saying now that Minister Kirin should be removed immediately. But may Minister Kirin say who is to blame in his ministry? Who doesn't know how to work? Well, let Minister Kirin take such a shift. 'Cause watch out if there's no sanctions on these reports, then we're all wasting time together. We will not move further in curbing corruption in our society. We're not going far. Therefore, I am now calling on the parliamentary majority to vote simply by the logic of most of any conclusion, that, in this report, the Parliament proposes, the government can, too, make a parliamentary majority, propose some conclusion that some further actions, some kind of sanctions, would follow. The government doesn't have to fall right now because of that. No one's asking, but something out of this has to follow or we'll read one of those same reports year after year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57768	Thank you very much. We have two corrections. First is Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57769	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Stazic, presented the following in a list of corruptions. He said that corruption or the introduction to corruption is that independent representatives in this House get a million kunas. Fellow Stazic, it is as right as the parties get for the MPs sitting in this House the same amount, so the same right is achieved by independent representatives and there is no talk of corruption. Therefore, do not do what is right, which is practice in this House and which is really based on the law, which is the right to declare corruption. It's really immeasurable.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57770	Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57771	Dear Mr. Vice President, Article 309, where the correction is, the facts are corrected, the statement of fact states in the Rules of Procedure, I invite you and the MP to read the Rules of Procedure and to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. This is a replica. We can explain ourselves in the replica as much as we want.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57772	I think it was correctly corrected by the claim of independent agents. I usually tolerate his opinion as you know it when it doesn't correct itself, let alone when it's corrected. Therefore, you have no longer misused the right, or request to harm a Rules of Procedure that is not injured. We have a second correction from Mr. Representative Maria Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57773	I would like to correct Mr. Stazic's list of all the items that this material states, and we are today discussing the report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures and now all that has been processed here Mr. Stazic has declared it corruption. That's simply not true, because this is exactly the material that prevented corruption. So, you've replaced the thesis. So everything that's in these papers you've declared corruption. It's just not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57774	Thank you very much. Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Joseph Leko's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57775	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the State Commission, colleagues and colleagues. He's right, fellow Stazic, when he asked if it made sense to discuss the reports and then nothing. And why in the House in the first place did we get a report from the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures? We should ask why we are not discussing it together with the State Audit Report for this same year 2004. It's about our citizens' money. So, the budget money and one and the other independent institutions are working for the Parliament, and what is the role of the Parliament, Parliament, then, of us MPs to receive these two reports. I'll use the Constitution. This Regulation shall enter The Constitution says that the Croatian Parliament first, indent 10th, so the Croatian Parliament oversees the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and other public officials responsible for the Croatian Parliament in accordance with the Constitution and law, and Article 114. The Constitution of the Republic states: “The government is responsible for the Croatian Parliament.". Item two: "The President and members of the government are jointly responsible for the government's decisions and are personally responsible for their field of work." So, the State Commission is saying, an independent body in this House's service delivered a report, although late for 2004, that economic and legal use of budget money or how public money was used. So our debate can't be an alibi debate. We cannot say “eat the wolf donkeys and nothing to anyone. ” There is a constitutional responsibility of this Parliament to determine who individually made this unlawful procurement. Who's individual? So, on the report itself, I can say that it is professional and thus, to say the very encouraging demonstration of the work of this State Commission. Why do I think that? In the complaint procedure, the Commission examined cases worth 7 billion and 200 million kuna. 7 billion and 200 million kunas were in a certain way frozen until it was resolved by complaints from this commission. Is it possible that we can seek responsibility, so if it's unprofessional, for intricacies, if it's designed, then irresponsibility exists both stronger and harder. If it is added that the reason for the cancellation is 80% of the decisions if the contest is wrong to say so, then we cannot talk about failures and ignorance. But colleagues and colleagues, this cannot be seen beyond the context of the overall use of budget money in 2004 because it is about that year outside the State Audit report. So this is about 7 billion and 200 million budget money from 2004 that was not effectively, not economically used. If we add that, and we don't have a dispute here, we've accepted the State Audit report, that the state audit for that same year found that 3 billion 400 million were used, so definitely used the state budget beyond the Public Procurement Act. And the same thing between us is not disputed, that 3 billion and 600 million governments re-scheduled budget money in 2004 without asking for authority from those representing citizens. So we gave Bianca authority or later gave authority without asking for any report for 3 billion and 600 million. Such a relationship and debate that came late to the Parliament or that the State Commission is a relatively young body, an independent body of Croatian democracy is an alibi for the debate, an alibi for the debate. If we want to do something, we ask for a problem report from the Croatian government and a state audit on public procurement and budget spending. At least let us at least try to achieve our role in overseeing the work of the Government and the bodies of the ministries and other bodies using the budget money and money of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It's a problem of corruption. We can close our eyes and say that there's no corruption and that this is all right. But the data says otherwise. We can disagree whether corruption is given to an individual representative, so-called. An independent 4 times 250,000 kuna or 1 million kuna for one term and say that the same weight is one MP not keeping the law from saying that money is given to political parties and that political parties are nominated for the development of political culture and political life in the Republic of Croatia. So we can deny it. But that fact remains. We agreed yesterday that a new law should be dealt with as much as it belongs to who. And how independent advocates are financed. We can say that there is no corruption, but the fact is that when the European Commission's body decided to postpone the screening of the judiciary and the MUP, it was absolutely certain that 15 billion kunas of state money, public money, were spent under the law in 2004. Or at least it was stopped in spending for trying to spend it past the law. Because it wasn't all spent past the law. Such circumstances force us, colleagues and colleagues, that this report cannot be debated by the fact that it has come too late to eliminate that there is no problem and that we do not have to ask what is causing this to be done in public procurement. If the law is a brake, if it is complicated, if it is not effective to use social money, let's change the law. If the law protects that the money of the citizens of the Republic is used in a real and efficient and economic way, then we cannot be blind and not ask for the responsibility of the individual officials who operate either of the ministries, or of the public enterprises, because we have not passed the law in order to discipline them but to protect the interests of the citizens we represent here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57776	Thank you very much. We have one replica, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57777	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague, Leco, saying he's trying to challenge the fact that it's about corruption, whether there's corruption. No one disputes that fact and it is clear to everyone that there is corruption and it is to be read truly from this report. However, it is certainly not true again that what you have said could be discussed whether the fee that belongs to independent legislators is, can it be interpreted in some way as corruption. That's impossible, because it's legal law. The parties shall receive amounts per agent who sits in this Assembly. They're getting concrete amounts. This same amount, of course, since we have independent lists, of course, that it should belong so much to independent representatives. But what seems important to me is the following. You also said in your debate that we gave Bianca authority to this government to spend three billion and some kuna. We have done so, but it is a significant progress and much more transparent than what happened at the time of your government when the budget money was spent beyond any decision by this Parliament. So the Croatian Parliament, which is the only one in charge of budgeting and budgeting, has therefore made no decision on the amounts, the billions of amounts your Government has spent. So this is certainly significant progress and surely this report can be seen from different aspects, but that is progress. It points to the imperfection of a law that is in force, which needs to be fixed, which we all certainly agree with, to make there as little manipulation as possible and of course opportunities for corruption. But only the report was really made very high-quality, very transparent and in that sense certainly, here, obviously I will also have the support of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57778	Thank you. Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57779	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Matusic. I don't mind if we differ. It also bothers me if the Government of Ivo Sanader has spent 3 billion kunas in advance of the Parliament's will, like the Government of the Ivica Racan. If you don't mind the fact that the government of Eve Sanader spent it without... The sum of 3 billion and 600 million is already another problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I wouldn't want to be a part of it. When it comes to corruption, you can't make my point of view, even the legal position and the legal position of the Constitutional Court bring it with, under the notion that it's not just because you think it's true. There's simply no law and I didn't get a single kuna because I'm a representative. ... Well, that's why I see it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And when he's an independent agent, he gets it himself. He gets it himself and has no obligation to develop democratic standards as a political party. And there isn't. That's our difference. And I allow you to keep thinking that way, but I'll stay at my point of view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57780	Thank you very much. Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar's turn. He's gone. He's losing his right. Now it's Mr. Representative Vlado Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57781	Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the State Commission, colleagues and colleagues. At first, I would like to say, of course, that I will support this report on the work of the State Commission for 2004. Public procurement is an indicator of how the public sector works, and we are, unfortunately, every year especially when considering the review report for the previous period, witnessing that the biggest shortcomings in the use of public funds occur in public procurement, and therefore, of course, one such body such as the State Commission and only a few of these statistics depicting the work of the Commission for 2004, so 833 appeal cases of which 761 newly received, solved 779 or 93.5%, which is proof of one quality work, because I believe that those cases that have not been solved are cases that have arrived in the commission at the end of the year. But what all of us need to worry about is that of these solved cases 48% of the cases or 373 of those where the complaint was adopted. Therefore, these are items where stable illegal activities appeared, something that was not in accordance with the norms and laws, and therefore the competition itself fell. The most frequent failures here are the president of the commission, so I won't repeat them, but they appear literally everywhere and wherever public procurement is done. What is certainly the imperfection of this report, but not because it is bad, but because the law in existence says, the report on the work of the State Commission covers only those cases, so those complaints that have arrived in the commission, which is 8.16% of the total public tenders published in "The People's Journal". These complaints or those 8.16% include somewhere over 7 billion kunas of public funds that are estimated to be worth... if we translated it into 100% by some kind of mathematics then it would be working somewhere around 90 billion kunas of public funds that are actually spent on government and other budgets that are the subject of public procurement audits or control, and 90 billion kunas are huge funds. That is why I really think, as many who have discussed here today, that for the overall analysis of public procurement, an existing solution is insufficient and that it should certainly be improved in a way that extends the Commission's powers and to those cases where there are no complaints, but quite certain or individuals and we know that there are some illogicalities. Why do I say that? All of us who are here are elected in some local environments, coming from these areas from election units and very often mainly from construction works we have complaints from domestic contractors from construction firms that they can't get a job. There are always others on the side, at least it's not the point on the side, but the point is in some others, it's more favourable. And it's strange that someone from Varazdin, Slavonski Brod, other environments is cheaper than the performer in Karlovac for an investment or an object that is built in Karlovac than domestic bidders. I must say that it was particularly present or highlighted during the previous government when certain companies or companies from the narrow circle were both projectors and supervisors of the works and from that same circle when they were contractors. Analyzing a little or talking about what's been going on or going on in practice, I think the next conclusion or hodogram of the actions leading to this situation is being imposed. Investors of individual projects, therefore, by limiting the collection of offers for design selection of so-called. Like projectors. These similar projectors do projects and cost-effectives, and some items in the cost-effectives predict that will not be implemented. Then comes the public tender published in "The People's News" and the performer who is in the game knows about these items that will not be performed and offers them very low. Other bidders, of course, offer them at real prices and, of course, they are more expensive with their final offer. One who offered certain items was either very low or not offering them at all because he knows that they will not be performed and that offer is lower overall. Other bidders don't complain, because it's formally all right, and although they know what's going on, they don't complain because of course they hope they can get a similar job from the same investor in the future. So, technically, everything's fine, and it's actually a crime. I therefore propose and suggest that the Government propose an addition of the Public Procurement Procedure Act, which would improve and cover the control of the overall public procurement process, and this report, because I believe it is of quality, I believe that it is professionally, I will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57782	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The first is Mr. Pera Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57783	Dear Mr. Vice President, I'm glad that a colleague has also provided information regarding this report, too bad there is no Mr. Stazic who has totally distorted it, because this report for these 8.16% of the cases that speak about public procurement says that the commission acted in good time and prevented corruption, and he is speaking vice versa. As Mrs. Martic asked the prime minister yesterday for the humanitarian concert "three Godfathers" and that there were fascist features there. Me and Mr. Trčević were and it was not true, and he was also the representative of the Mayor of the City of Zagreb, Mr. Bandic, who was there. And now the media is talking about it. So it's totally distorted, so for them it means that if a black T-shirt is a picture of General Gotovina, it's a fascist feature for them, and it's interesting media immediately accepts and shaves about it, and it's a pure lie from a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57784	Look, the replica hasn't been on this since yesterday. It's what Mr. Jelkovac put out, according to that, but it's responding to something that happened yesterday. Okay, the replica can be widely understood, etc., but that's right. The second replica is Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57785	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I think my colleague Jelkovac did a very good hodogram, actually, which is actually happening through the process and the public procurement process. Unfortunately, the State Commission cannot react in these processes unless there is a complaint and it should certainly extend its powers and, of course, improve the law. But it seems another important point to me, along with this hodogram that my colleague Jelkovac very clearly explained, it is also happening that through this so-called public tender is aimed precisely at certain companies that have a number of employees, who also have certain machines. So it's aimed precisely at certain companies and it's quite clear that it's also a construction lobby that works throughout, through its actions. And in that sense, it really is necessary to lay down a legal basis more precisely, a legal basis in order to really avoid such situations. Here, in that sense, I think that all appeals are going towards it and quite certain that this State Commission, which has done its job well, will be even more effective in such cases in order to really prevent a direct guessing through a public tender. The public tender is then really just a farce, which is really happening on the ground, which is really all those who worked in local units know what the real situation is.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57786	Answer, Mr. Jelkovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57787	Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'm not going to do it again, of course, but I think it's interesting and valuable for all of us to pay attention to it. I was talking about him from the aspect of the inability to engage a domestic construction operation somewhere on the ground, back home. Because it's really weird that someone from another community who's gonna pay for the trip, who's gonna pay for the night workers can be cheaper than a domestic performer. But what's going on? Just because of this situation, then these domestic performers or domestic operatives are forced to be cooperative with this similar performer who got the job. He's reading big margins, and here, the local poor girl works for the price she can't even cover the expenses. But what's stopping her is because she has to hire those people she has, and then she's forced to work at those minimum prices.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57788	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57789	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I have to start by saying that I'm going to support this report anyway because that report was made in accordance with the law. Because the law says exactly what this report should contain, that means that the component of the report must be the number of items received, the number of cases solved, the number of unsecured procurement procedures, the number of pending cases and the list of orders. It's all in this report. The fact is, the report comes with a year late. We also heard an explanation of why it is. In one part I can accept it, in the other part no, but in any case I will support this report. But there's one thing that's been going through here the whole time in the debate, and that's the question of the jurisdiction of this State Commission. This State Commission is like I said a kind of shoulder to cry on. They're just something to do about complaints. So they only solve those cases of public procurement when it comes to some kind of appeal. And they did their job, they did the job in their report and they presented it, and among other things they said there were 779 items, but I'm only interested in those items where that complaint was adopted. And that's 373. And I'm asking what about those 373 or some of the more than 45% of the objects they've been processing? What about those who conducted such competitions, what about those who made tenders that were not in accordance with the law? Have any of them been told in accordance with the law? And the law says nicely where it says that a fine of 5 to 50 thousand kunas will be punished by one who does not work according to the law. And there are 21 items that will be punished. Have any of these 373 been reported? I know your obligation isn't because by law you don't have such an obligation, I understand that. However, whether we, as a Parliament, will make a decision, draw a conclusion that we either commit to the State Attorney's Office or the Government's Office, which it established by a regulation under the Public Procurement Act. So, the Public Procurement Office. Are we bound by the Public Procurement Office that has such opportunities, which is obliged to report when the Public Procurement Act is violated? I expect us to come up with such a conclusion and that these 373 that are listed here, whose appeal has been passed, means that the contest has been annulled in any of these ways. So, the annulled decision or the annulled part of the decision and so on, as you stated. Will those who did not obey the Law on Public Procurement answer? Why do I care? Because the Public Procurement Office established under the Government Regulation of the Republic of Croatia does not correspond to the Croatian Assembly under the Public Procurement Act? We don't see their report. We don't know what they are in their control, what they did. This is the only thing we see besides the State Audit report. And in the State Audit report, we saw what it says, at least for that same year. 3 billion and 400 million kunas were obtained without respect for the Public Procurement Act. 94 million kuna without any public tender. Are we going to report like that, yet not to say that there were 260 million kunas in the Department of Defense without respecting public procurement? 130 million kuna in units of local self-government without respecting the Public Procurement Act. I've never read in the media, I'm talking about transparency, we've never read anywhere in the media that anyone under the Public Procurement Act is being punished with 5 to 50 thousand kunas as far as it's legally being punished, and it's big money, no matter what part of it is in the supply of drugs, we saw it in the State Audit, it's 3 billion and 200 million kuna on the purchase of drugs obtained without a public tender. I'm interested in one thing, whether we, I expect it and we'll make such a proposal and we'll give it a conclusion to commit the Public Procurement Office to examine the legality of all public procurement and to file criminal charges, or that those actors are being sanctioned under the Public Procurement Act because the fact is that the Public Procurement Office won't do it alone because it's part of the Government, so the government founded it, and since we know that in the audit we saw that a large number of ministries that have violated the provisions of the Public Procurement Act and, of course, it won't be the Public Procurement Office that is part of the Government, so to punish themselves. That would be the cadiya suing you, the cadiya judging you. It can't be done by chance, and they don't report to us. That is why I expect us to come out here with the conclusion that we are going to tie up the Public Procurement Office to sanction those who did not respect the Public Procurement Act, and this Report which is quality and well shows how many those who did not respect the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57790	Thank you very much. We have replicas. First Mr. Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57791	Thank you very much. Col. Kapraljevic has troubled the fate of those who violated the Public Procurement Act in 2004, and it is particularly good that this report clearly shows where these people work and how much the value of the offenders is. If the total number of cases which were subject to complaints is 7 billion and 200 received complaints 45%, then about 3 billion kuna is the value of the tender procedure past the law were in the Croatian Rehabilitation and Development Bank, of 4 items 4 cancelled, County Road Administration of Dubrovnik-Neretva County of 5.4 cancellations, Croatian Pension Insurance Office of 9 items 6 cancellations, in ZET 9.6 cancelled, in HEP distribution of 56 items 21, in the City of Zagreb 34, 12, in the INA of 26 8, in the Croatian highways of 34 9. Most of these companies, the institution responsible to the Government, the names of the offenders are also known to the Government and it would be really good to call upon the Government to inform us of sanctions against the responsible persons in all institutions on page 9 of this Report on measures taken to bear responsibility for non-compliance with the Public Procurement Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57792	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57793	I thank Mr. Lesar for reading the part that applies individually to those infringers of the Public Procurement Act. It's about 373 items, I'm only interested in one thing individually is that as Mr. Lesar listed, the largest number of those are 40%, so the largest number of those who broke the law 40% of their cases were respected complaints, so 40% were violations of the law. I'm also interested in whether we will be doing something on the basis of this report I repeat is good and quality, will we do something about it? Is someone going to be sanctioned on this?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57794	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57795	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with my colleague that laws should be implemented, that in this sense all those who have violated it should be sanctioned, that responsibility should be found. I will point out here this example which was read by my colleague Lesar earlier, it is about the County Road Administration in Dubrovnik-Neretva County. You see, as a parliamentary representative, as a county councilman, I've warned for years about the crime that's been going on in that institution. The confirmation of this crime can also be read from the fact that 80% of the complaints addressed to the State Commission have been respected, or that 80% of the tenders have been annulled. It is about an institution where, headed by an illegal director, an employee who is already supposed to be retired and who has two employees who have property of over 50 or 60 million de facto per year with a higher budget than the County of Dubrovnik-Neretva and no one has responded to public references that there is a crime and that it is necessary to determine what is really going on in such institutions. And let me tell you frankly, it was even a dispute that partly led to the conflict in Dubrovnik-Neretva County in the new council of government, because one of the people, if I didn't name it doesn't matter now, wanted to conquer this particular institution because it saw this institution as a potential institution from which it could draw money for its construction company. I fully agree that in all cases, and in this case too, responsible persons should be identified, that they should be told what is really happening, and this is an opportunity precisely to through the reports of the State Commission to reach responsible persons and to respond according to the law as well as in all other cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57796	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57797	I'm glad we agree on one thing to sanction people, but in the case of the Dubrovnik Neretva County jurisdiction over this problem is primarily in the county, the Dubrovnik-Neretva County and if you knew it was some kind of crime, if that's what this is about, then you should have reported these people to the State's Attorney's office and you should have done it. It is in any case, and the jurisdiction of it is in any case the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Clouds and I don't know what they're not called. So you had a chance anyway if you knew you were bound to do it, and here we found out about some crime and we're obliged to make a report, so we as parliamentary agents because we got this report on our hands.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57798	Another replica, Mrs. Zdenka Babić Petricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57799	Mr. President. My colleague, you've said 373 applications or 373 items several times today. I ask you if there are 373 items "Viktor Lenac", building a nursing home in Dubrovnik, building a technical school in Zadar, building a Centre for persons with special needs in Komarevo, building a House for the Old and Powerless in Vukovar. Is it the case of the Petronja 99 company, the conclusion of a contract with its own companies, which is with conflict of interest, whenever it comes to crime it's interesting to talk superficially and it's finally time to assume this duty from us someone who's in charge of it and that's the State's Attorney's Office because every perpetrator has a name and a last name. I'm afraid your party would be out of a few people.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57800	Thank you very much. You don't need to mention these parties right now, these are the principle points of view. And when the law is passed, then we'll just see who it is. Answer, Mr. Representative Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57801	My colleague Zdenko, first of all, I'm asking you to ask me to ask the gentleman who put this report together because he probably knows what companies it's about, so ask him. I don't know what companies it's about. And as for those insinuations and stories of yours, I believe you've been thinking about one of my party colleagues, it can't even be covered by this report first because this is the 2004 report. It cannot be covered by this report. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And I'm asking you when we're calling each other I'd be begging you to turn around and look around and look around at some colleagues who've already had some very important affairs but I don't want to talk about names. I just want to ask you one thing. Why and what you did while you were in the Parliament and did nothing and you saw what was done in conversion and privatisation. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57802	True, this is the 2004 report, so let's bring our debates down to that year. Thank you very much. Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Jozo Radosh's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57803	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! The State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures is a new and, in fact, a very small link in the overall efforts that the state must make to combat corruption. The Croatian Parliament should also make a contribution to this. I will warn that the Croatian Parliament in that part does not meet the obligations it has made to himself in which way the Croatian Parliament loses its authority, and then it is not logical to expect that the obligations it imposes on other lower institutions are taken seriously. Thus, on 21 March 2002, the Croatian Parliament adopted a National Anti-Corruption Programme with an action plan to fight corruption. The Croatian Parliament has committed a number of ministries to act on the fight against corruption and then a decision has been made to establish a State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, a Public Procurement Office for the Government of the Republic of Croatia but to take some more measures. Within the framework of these tasks outlined in the action plan, the Croatian Parliament has committed to establish a committee to control the procedures of the public, to control the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Programme. Of this document, the National Anti-Corruption Programme has been over three years, and we are now approaching the fourth year and the Croatian Parliament has not set up an appropriate commission to implement the National Anti-Corruption Programme. And what's happened in that sense over the past few years? Unfortunately, we're talking about years, not months. On behalf of the Club of Representatives at the end of 2004 I sent a proposal to the Croatian Parliament or its President for a decision on the establishment of this committee, but I was told that such committees, therefore the bodies of the Croatian Parliament, can only be proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. I am at least not logically a representative of the Croatian Parliament can propose laws and can not propose the establishment of the body of the Croatian Parliament which is not logical, but I respected the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and sent my initiative to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament. In March 2005, the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System submitted to the Clubs of Representatives a working text on the Commission's decision with a request that representatives' clubs and the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Internal Policy make their comments, suggestions and additions and decisions on the Commission's implementation of the National Programme. Since then, the club of representatives of the HNS will first say that it has sent its opinion, or one amendment to the proposal for a decision. It's been eight months since then. Since my initiative, it has been more than a year since the decision to establish a commission based on the National Anti-Corruption Programme, it has been almost four years and the Commission has not been established to monitor the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Programme. I think it is an unserious act of the Croatian Parliament. By the way, this commission should be composed of representatives and citizens who would be elected in an appropriate manner, so representatives of various associations. According to my proposal, it would be chaired by a representative of the parliamentary opposition and would be involved in monitoring the implementation of the National Programme and, in particular, by those bodies whose contribution to the achievement of this programme is the most important and these are the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, the Public Procurement Office, the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, which is the body whose report we are today discussing over the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or all of its institutions, the ministries that have received special tasks based on that national programme. And here we are today. That commission, therefore, was not established until nearly four years after the Assembly made such a decision. I will today base this opportunity when discussing this report to the Croatian Parliament to commit to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, which, according to our Rules of Procedure, is formal for the competent authority to propose to the Croatian Parliament a parliamentary committee for the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Programme. If in such a way the Croatian Parliament wishes to make its own contribution then it will certainly be an incentive for other bodies including the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures to do their job more seriously. And I end up with what I started with if the Croatian Parliament itself does not fulfil the tasks it has given itself, it loses its authority and the tasks it gives to the other bodies will also not be done in the right way, and of course it can concern all bodies including the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57804	Thank you very much. We have one correction, Mr. Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57805	Thank you, Mr. President. So here is colleague Radoš, saying that the Croatian Parliament is unserious or that there is inconclusion here. I think that the Croatian Parliament has very seriously established a commission, an investigative commission in which Mr. Rados was a member where Mr. Radoš lost all credibility to what he is talking about now. He could have done anything there. For all the contracts they had and a series of irregularities at the border of crime. Even in crime, Mr. Radosh claimed that they were perfectly fine, and maybe that's why here's why very close people were his main actors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57806	Thank you. I have to say that's not exactly an correction because there was no question about it. It was not a word, no, no, it was not a matter of investigating committees at all, but Mr. Radosh spoke precisely about the fact that no anti-corruption committee was established and such a conclusion was reached by this Assembly. But here's Mr. Radosh reporting for a correction or a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57807	So, counterpart Markovanovic hurt his Rules of Procedure, Article 209, but it's not just a breach of the Rules of Procedure. He wasn't talking about what I was talking about. He went far beyond that. He insinuated, he insulted, he disrespected. So when you say something like that, Mr. Vice President, you should react. You must not let someone so insulting a representative as a foundation, and of course it violates the Rules of Procedure and then say nothing to anyone after that. You understand? It is extremely incorrect what you have done and especially what your colleague Markovanovic did. I've done my job both in the Committee and here in the Parliament worked properly and honestly.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57808	Well, I agree there's not always a reaction to insult. The whole party has been insulted here, marked, so you haven't reported in this regard. So this is a little bit lighter than it was, say... Well, I agree, then, that's what he's got, but someone's just advised you to turn around and turn around in that way, and you're around him. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's Mr. Sima Armsman's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57809	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here are a few thoughts and suggestions, ideas about this report... I'm actually using fundamentally to suggest some actions in future time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to the report itself, it is first and simply no comment. I think I can personally accept it without saying an objection and that the report is very correct. However, it speaks of what is, of course, in accordance with the law, possible for those and those who complain about the procurement process. What about those who don't complain? What about the ones we've been listening to these days? Last week we discussed a report from the Competition Protection Agency. We discussed the review report. We discussed those findings of Cacic-Tomcic and so on. Of course they're not the subject of this report. And regardless of the report that covers only one year in 2004, this is about phenomena. These phenomena have a slightly longer trail, and so I want to talk about these events today, which are characteristic for a long period of time. Unfortunately, it's probably someone in the future. It seems to me, last week when I was discussing a brief report from the Competition Protection Agency, then I made a bit of a joke saying that in Dalmatia, it's not important to know how to play, but to count. And why did I say that? Here's what I want to explain today. It's not important to know how to play and report to a public procurement competition, but in any area it was. It's important to have your people in the Committee and no problem. The competition has already been predetermined and many things can be carried out in advance. I'll tell you about a case that's tight on the subject. Maybe it's time for something earlier. When it comes to the construction of highways and Zadar County and in order to prepare, but also to prepare the county road administration so that it could, and was then the owner of the majority and state to be able to run and prepare for the execution of works, the County Road Administration shall report to the competition prepared by the county to obtain the quarry. She had about 200 employees, all the machinery and the only one who had fully met the requirements. The competition was selected, with the Ministry responsible, to elect a firm that had only been registered in the Commercial Court two days earlier and had only registration papers. She didn't have any employees, she didn't have a balance before. She had nothing. She only had a good will. I then tried to intervene at the Ministry, so to the top. I've been answered very rudely, I'd say, "Oh, what does he think he's going to decide who's going to work?" And of course this company was chosen which was registered two days ago, and as a consequence it is working today but until today since then it hasn't paid me any of the concessions to use the quarry. This is just one example of how it was played or implemented by the Public Procurement Act in Croatia, which was the same and then in this time. What about all the loose performers on the road, for example, highways? It's a message to everyone if you're running, so you're probably complaining, so don't call the competition next time because it's known you won't get it. Something similar is happening in these times. Unfortunately, because I'd feel free to call it some people's syndrome because they've set up and left part of the staff, so I'd like to briefly expand this debate over these phenomena that are happening. In fact, the existing legal responsibility of those who act in my opinion often does not really know what is going on in committees. It is the committees who decide, not the Parliament, not the committees, not the ministers. The commissions are the ones who shake funds in this country. This year, we have foreseen another example in the budget, and probably, and hopefully, it will be the next days and will be done at least partially accordingly, this year we have predicted somewhere just to rebuild about 5 and a half billion kuna. Five and a half billion. It is necessary to see how the procedures in use, the choice of performers are handled, whether they are suppliers of construction material, suppliers of equipment or any other. But it's just a small segment. All other segments shall also act and subject to the same responsibility. What's going on? There's a procurement tender under way, and I'm going to get the principal later, and we've already agreed to hand over one piece of the material, but about the story is next. The competition is being opened, the competition is being heard by interested parties. First of all, it's the best thing to do, but he's getting a signal right away, so you're not gonna get jobs because people are these or those on the commission. That's what you call a commission, a commission, okay. It's not a commission. It's a commission. And after different games, it really does happen. After two, three, four months, and not 30 days, cancel the contest. The competition is being re-scheduled. Same participants, no change in commission. Even so, here I commend the director and his agency for canceling the competition, the one where there were previous games. It's a new one again. In the new same picture, the same procedures the same candidates report, the same commission chooses the same message. Give it up because you won't get it anyway. And now I'm going to specify the story that approximately ten bidders report. Of these 10 bidders, of course, the first one decided to be the most favourable because it was all references and everything else. Of these 10 bidders, they are later invited and convinced that it would be good for them to accept this offer based on the article, it seems to me 62, it is not important but a phenomenon and says you accept this price, so you will also get part of the public procurement business. And after all, such an arrangement is said jobs got all the best bidders. I think this should patent such an invention and such a phenomenon and those most favourable bidders can be one or not know how much, but they can't be all the participants of the competition. And these most favourable bidders first have no criteria as far as anyone will get. If, for example, it's about five thousand objects, how much will they get the most advantageous first ones, and how much is the last most advantageous, and so, look, wonders to say the first one that was formally the most favored gets, say, one promil, and these others that were the last and most unfavourable for about 11, 12 million kunas that nobody controls, and that's the point in the state budget. So this last one gets about 50% of those objects. What law is that? In fact, here is the reason why we should discuss this briefly, in some ways, that I have been offered knowledge, because as chairman of the Committee on Finance and the Committee, we have received some ideas, and we will also have to give some opinions and assessments about it. It's my opinion that even legislation, I can't now as an economist go into the breadth of it, and if all of this is and it's probably true what we're going to do next. I'm asking a fundamental question about who's overseeing and what mechanism, besides them, I'm even sorry about them at the end of the year, because they and the review at the end of the year are just going to give a report next year that this happened. What's behind that? Nothing to anyone. There's a problem. Therefore, the criminal liability of individuals participating in such proceedings and such processes should be established. It is very interesting that these were companies that were controversial both in 2002 and 2003. It is seen in the process that it is a chain that is bound and which continues to function. So ask the question what is it? Secondly, whether those commissions that were proven to have violated the procedure or the law on procedure could continue to be the same commissions last year or before. Is it my opinion that I absolutely can't? If only a minimum of what should be done, someone should, and now neither can they audit it, nor can they. I don't even see who the third might have the power of an executive order now to do otherwise, or when it is proved to be an abuse to act. And she's talking about 5,000 and 50,000 kunas that the law says is really funny. If we're talking about the difference in a specific case of offers more favourable and unfavourable, the second and the next of 11 million kunas, I'm asking what is the penalty of 5 or 50,000 kuna. It seems to me that in this area it should be more effective in direct intervention or possibility, therefore, of changing the law. The adaptation in this regard, but also the individual and criminal responsibility of individuals who are unquestionably in my opinion, are taking part in such procedures because these commissions last longer in all segments of Croatian society. What about cities and everyone else? Therefore, the network in which it is difficult to report and compete with those not in the system is known in advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57810	Thank you very much. This debate has caused five replicas. The first is Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57811	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's a colleague of the Wrestle has raised a number of questions and listed a whole series of examples of how the law is being passed through this process, as is assumed by the nature of the crime that this report also refers to. I would add some more examples from which it is clear what it is and what, of course, the amendments to the law should be overrun and avoided. Here's an example. One municipality has opened a tender for works that exceed 10 million kuna. A few firms called. I think there were three of which one was the most expensive and that was more expensive than the next for, say, two to three million kunas, and the difference between two companies. So it's about the amount of over 10 million kuna was 3,000 kuna. It is, therefore, a question of how the committees operate and how they operate, or how the people in charge of the public tender are acting. Because to make a difference, only 3,000 kunas can really be a coincidence between probably a million copies of this amount. This only points to one or someone opened the offer so they knew what the cheapest offer was, so they offered for two, three thousand kunas or someone really set up the competitions at all costs. It really is about who is sitting in these committees, how these commissions work. But it's not a lonely example. There are performers who already know that they have the most favourable offer before the envelopes are opened. How is that possible? How is that possible? So the law really needs to be changed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57812	Thank you. Mr. Jaksa Marasovic, same replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57813	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Pritchard has said many things that I would agree with. However, it is quite clear that these, these tenders that have been annulled or the jobs that have been annulled, which are listed here, have been respected complaints, there has been no corruption in them. You know where corruption was the most? In those who didn't even come to the commission. There was the most corruption there. Now, if we hadn't been discussed, so we don't even know where all this corruption is going on, I'd just remind you of one thing. For a part of the Bregana highway – Zagreb and Zagreb, i.e. Karlovac and forwards you know when the contract with Bechtel was signed. You know very well. I'll only tell you about the illustration. Co-operant Bechtela worked for one, and Bechtel charged two on Bregana – Zagreb. Now, for an illustration, I'll tell you another thing. Stock Dugopolje – Opusen, is licensed. The Croatian consortium was 5 billion, Bechtel was 6 billion. And you know very well who was pushing to set up a director with Bechtel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57814	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57815	Well, I'm taking this opportunity very briefly to respond to this part of the replica. Namely, stories about this and the connection of contracts previously signed and extended completed by Mr. Marasovic should know. I will not touch the Croatian waters that are now, it is too far away in which Mr. Marasovic could very well inform us here how they are being and how public works are being obtained. I want to do this, because I and my county would have too many examples, I just want to say that countless possible ways of playing is always in law-breathing offers. We saw that from the review report, we see that now. It's not one supplier, but here's 15 of them that appear in the competition. Well, now that that's public, then he didn't need the law, the public procurement contest, but up to 200 grand, so let's make a deal. So that was characteristic for all the years in the report and this so far, and the revision is said to have significantly improved, and it must never be idyllic enough for us to come to terms with this situation, but rather to try and insist on improving the situation. Because I'm short-circuiting this constituency, as it is called, the commission, which is what it is called, to investigate conflicts of interest in which only thieves who come here and receive their wages and eventually even threaten not to report here and say their opinions. I'm not afraid of it, which is why I'm presenting these phenomena and I'm asking that we persist in this fight together, because I'm afraid that interests, material, that I don't say those other insinuations, don't have party colors, they're often connected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57816	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57817	This debate is the most expensive thing I've ever had. Because I have to pay 500 kuna fines for missing an individual hearing because I went to the Assembly archives to look for similar reports from 1996, '98. and '99. Let's see how Parliament then discussed monitoring the spending of state money. And I came to the conclusion that these years Parliament was not at all discussing the work of such a body, that it was not actually there. And let alone that Parliament would get the opportunity to report on the supervision and the list of law-abiding offenders. Or it was in some other department offices at the time, but it didn't work out. He called his friend The Brasser a violation of the law some occurrences. So there were some phenomena in HBOR, the Pension Insurance Office, the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of the Sea, tourism, transport and development that this commission calls a violation of the law. Some of them break the law, I like that. And yet, how come we don't know now if the government has a surveillance instrument and those cases where there was no appeal procedure? There is. Because the second body on this same law which is competent not only for appeal proceedings is called the Government Office for Public Procurement Control. Who doesn't report to Parliament, though, because he's the government's office. So all these doubts, the dilemma of whether the state of Croatia has an instrument of supervision and when there is no appeal procedure reminds me of the government's Public Procurement Control Office which unfortunately does not come before Parliament with its report. And that's what I'm done with. In 2004, you returned to the debate in history until 1918. I can't wait for the 2005 report. Then you'll probably be back in history by 1929. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57818	... They skip this first and go back to, which shows how principled and serious we are. [[Specially enabled.]] We've got the answer now, Mr. Brass. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57819	Here, fellow Lesar, I've avoided qualifications in advance, of course, I'm not a court and it's not my place to judge. So I have to say some phenomena. However, the report and the revisions and all other reports for the previous years are constantly showing, as I have already said, improvements. But we must continue to endure these phenomena. You actually mention it, and I end up with those years where you were head of the union and you sat on boards and boards of many of the companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57820	Thank you very much. We have two more replicas. Mr. Krunoslav Markovović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57821	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague of Prtenjač really gave a whole series of examples, but he inspired me a little bit, and here's my colleague Marasovic, because I have to tell him a little bit that the competitions were being called, say, for the construction of a water container where it can be seen that there are actually far more irregularities, there are crimes in those competitions that, in public procurement, which are not on this list but who are. Here, for example, we're looking for a construction company that has 15 electric engineers. Two companies report for the construction of a clear water container, one big one. The two companies invited the director of one and said, and he was told, listen, you're gonna skip this now and you're gonna get the next contest. And everything's fine. And it works amazingly, and there's no such thing here. I also agree that this is not a conversation about Cacic and Tomcic, but the contracts with them should be unforgivable literature when we talk about a topic like this, because it was far easier for us. We'd actually see what's going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57822	And I'd add not just... You didn't answer. We still have Mr. Antun Kapralevich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57823	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I see a colleague of the Wrestlers has asked what's not on the list, and he said he had some papers that he said he was going to give to the State Commission. I'd just like to read one thing from the Public Procurement Act. Who's responsible for law enforcement and surveillance. The Office for Public Procurement shall be authorised by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to carry out the supervision and application of laws and sublaws in the field of procurement which gives prior consent, instructions and opinions to users regarding the application of this law, collect, record and analyse the data on the acquisition, file a misappropriation request or criminal application to the State's attorney and so on. It's all in the law, so if you have any papers, you know who to turn to.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57824	Replication response, Shyme Wrestle.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57825	Well, I'm not here or the D.A. or anything else, I repeat, I've officially won as chairman of the board and the board's got part of the play and, of course, we'll be heading towards the existing one. However, I believe that it is not enough or that the existing system does not have sufficient effective control and supervision in the spending of such solely budgetary resources by area and purpose. And as for the phenomena themselves, obviously now we should be conflicting over those who took it, and I didn't take it or doubted it. So I say once again, and the reports also say that the previous years of these phenomena have been much more, that the situation is improving, but that we have to insist that this situation changes and corrects that this old network that still has its commissions in control could not continue to function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57826	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have two more 10 minutes and Mr. Judge on behalf of the club another 5 minutes, which would now mean one 20, 25 minutes, and assuming there are no replicas or corrections of incorrect allegations, etc. That's why I suggest we stop the debate now, continue at 3:00, finish this, and then we're up to the point of a motion to elect a state's attorney. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57827	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session. Dear Representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57828	Thank you, Mr. President. Let me briefly, at the end of this debate today, refer to this report. Well, at first, I can say that I welcome the work of the State Commission so as to monitor public procurement for 2004. So we think that the work of this committee is very important in the fight against abuse, bribery and corruption in the Republic of Croatia, and that we are all aware that it is very much present in our country, and that is what some independent data is saying that puts us in not very great places in the competition of countries around the world. As far as the report itself is concerned, I agree with those who are talking about how this report should be more comprehensive and more concrete. That's more like the general principle of this commission's work. This is the principle of public and transparency, the appeal procedure that was arranged as we heard by the Public Procurement Act and the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. This is more important, therefore, to the team the more much money is being turned around in this process. So this report was treated somewhere we heard 8.1 of the total number of such cases, which is expressed in coins means 7.2 billion kuna. While the total amount of funds we heard could be about 60 billion kuna. So we see that it is very important that this commission works both in accordance with the law, so as much as possible, and I agree with those who advocate that this commission has really all the working conditions. But where does my main remark go? I agree with MPs who warned that they would have to get more information, especially in cases where the complaint was filed, where the complaint was also adopted. So on page 12, we have a plate that tells us that the complaint was adopted in 373 cases. So it's one 40% of the total cases reported, but unfortunately we don't know why, for which real reasons these complaints and actions were adopted. So here we have the talk that out of those 373 of them is 79% that decisions and competition have been annulled entirely. We don't know the reasons, we don't know the responsible people. That 5.4% of the decision was annulled and competition. We don't know the reasons either, we don't know the responsible people. Also, 13.4% of the election decisions have been annulled as well. We also don't know the reasons why or the responsible person. Different examples have also been mentioned here that led to this. Unfortunately, this report is not present, and I think it should certainly be present in future reports. If that's not possible under the current law, I think the law should change in that direction, i.e. the conclusion or conclusion, therefore, of this kind of report, shall propose reports from the national lawyers and other institutions that carry out that second part of the work. I think that's very important for prevention. Because the best way to fight corruption, against bribes and precisely transparency and the public, and if these are the kind of negative examples, if I had the culprits, so for these things and publicly listed in the media, I think it would have a very preventive effect on me in the future. It was also said here that it was just a small part or that it was the tip of the ice dream of everything that's going on in the system, the system of public procurement. And these days, we were also here yesterday, the day before yesterday, informed of one such case in the INA that tells us about what it was all about. Among other things, so as not to come under this commission's treatment. So here's the case. One of the directors, along with their subordinates, set up a million-dollar-six-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-kn. The twin is suspected of ordering office equipment by breaking purchase contracts into two or three parts. Thus, it would not cross the 200 000 kuna line of the total order, after which it would necessarily go to a public tender. That would lose the ability to set up jobs. Such cases took place in 2000, 2003, but also in 2004, so when this report was produced, it was said that the same material was ordered, worth 385 thousand kuna, which was also divided into two parts according to the test method. Therefore, and a direct business with the aim of moving that money to a company that was targeted, and therefore the owners of that company were related to the managers of these companies. So, let me cut it short. So once again, I support the work of the State Control Commission itself, but I think the reports in the future should be more exhaustive. What should therefore, in particular, be highlighted and specifically cited in cases where complaints have been adopted, for which reasons and who is therefore responsible for such violations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57829	Thank you. Dear representative Ivana Sučec Trakostanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57830	Thank you, Mr. President. I would also briefly refer to this report, perhaps a little bit from another angle, rather than most of my colleagues, because I am, of course, interested in being in accordance with the regulations and in favour of the state. But I am more interested in both this commission and the Public Procurement Act being at the service of entrepreneurship and economic development in the Croatian state. That's what I'm more interested in, and I'd say neither can I praise this report in particular nor spare it. I can take it into account because it is a collection of historical data, so statistics that speak about the figures of cases that the Commission as a secondary body had only in relation to those procedures which have passed the appeal procedure or administrative action, which is not the control of the overall public procurement in Croatia, so there are probably certain things that this commission does not have, or may have, knowledge which is not entirely in line with the Public Procurement Act, because it is also necessary to have the courage to engage in adventures and complaints and to carry out a second-degree procedure and at the end of the lawsuit, because if we start from the last page, I can start from where I want this report, then I would say that this record that 3 thousand and 200 kunas have been deposited into the state budget, may be as positive if we are looking from the position of the state, but it is very negative and an additional cost to the entrepreneurs that this money that I have to recapitalize their own resources in order to prove that they could in the budget. I would say, therefore, that aside from the responsibilities of the legal powers this commission has, it also has enormous power. It will, in particular, work at the end of this meeting in three meetings of the Croatian Parliament because it was formed in the previous meeting, work on our whole mandate and it will pass and the same commission will work in the next term, so it is a commission that has the possibility that when it comes to the competition it will decide whether the decision will cancel fully, whether it will only be partially accepted and determine who is selected as the offerer of goods, works, services or other services, that it will decide on the annulled part of the decision or of course something else in accordance with the law, but the easiest and least problems making the decision to cancel the competition. Of course, it's for the commission, which is why she's in most cases by me and consummated, and, well, she's wearing the biggest damage to say so, because if we take these percentages and 8.6% of me don't at all impress because 8.6% of them talk about 7 billion and 238 million kunas of the value of the appeal objects that are being delayed, the coefficient of turnover, everyone knows what the ratio of the turnover of capital in the economy means, it's a terrible slowdown, so if we're only talking about works that participate in one third by the number of these appeals cases they're participating in with 67% in value, so if we're talking about some orderly size, then we can say that it's about 270 schools that weren't built at that time when they could be built if the proceedings were conducted in front of the appeal committee for a certain time or not God if they still go to the administrative court, so it can take years. So it blocks huge resources and therefore the inability to perform work, and that's what we need to take care of the weight of this problem, regardless of what I'm doing repeating about the relative appearance of small percentages and relatively certain values that are far greater in combination with others. So this report, in my opinion, is denying another true stereotype story that we've always had, which is that small communities, small municipalities, don't have experts who would know how to call competitions, so of course they're collapsing. No, this report proves something else. If the state, unfortunately, I have to say here right now, and I don't like it, and the banks, and the ministries and state public enterprises, so those who have experts, those who should know best how to do it, in most cases don't do it. So, of course, I'm left with the possibility of an assessment that it's not out of ignorance, but it's out of intent, and I'd like it not to happen in the next report, and I'm also sorry that we're not discussing it, because we're already talking about the 2005 report, so we're going to have a full picture of the Commission's work from today, and I expect that the 2005 report will come to the end of this semester, so before the autumn session, and then we'll be able to compare it with this report and see what progress it is. And don't take me for harm if I say that I appreciate that everyone's fighting for their space as big as possible, but I don't see that a function that's called professionalism could be much better if it's done in a much bigger space, because if I end up pulling a parallel with us MPs, so we who don't have a cabinet or an office should not or we wouldn't be able to talk, we can prepare ourselves in a tight space, so I think that, in view of the existing 15 professional people doing these jobs, you can do the jobs that the law owes you, and of course I wouldn't say that the funds of 2 million and 600 thousand are small, which are spent in 2004, and it's going to be almost twice as big, a little bit smaller in 2005. And what would interest me as a representative is, which is the state, so all of you together and the Parliament as a competent control body won in that sense when we separated it from the Ministry of Finance and founded another independent body, so one more thing to say to the administrative body, because personally, no matter how much it was, I was always representing, and as long as I'm still here, I'm going to represent, that we have as few different commissions of state bodies as possible, and that we have a fast, transparent, unequivocal and easy to implement, professionally done, of course, a later tender procedure that you do, and then at the end and total business. Here's my thanks and I expect a new report, and I'm taking this into consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57831	Thank you. Honorable representative Josip Sudec, on behalf of the HSU Club, 5-minute debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57832	Ladies and gentlemen, this report maintains the effectiveness of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. It resolved 833 proceedings in the appeal, in a second-degree procedure after which there were all 25 lawsuits from which the Administrative Court accepted only 7 as established. So out of the 833 cases, only 7 of them at the Administrative Court, I think it's working clearly enough, or it's saying that the commission's work was more than effective and professional. The State Commission is only one of the control points which operate exclusively in complaints, but which is with other controllers of the commission formed within internal control entities, the Public Procurement Office, State Audit, the State Attorney's Office and the Administrative Court. I would find it very interesting if all these control institutions submitted a full report only on public procurement. It deserves the size of public procurement, it's cca somewhere around 60 billion. In the wholesale market, the public procurement segment is the sweetest and safest profit for everyone because it ensures the continuity and planning of purchase at a constant price, which guarantees the lowest costs in the distribution channel. The problem arises when tendering or when tendering offers are not of a quality, is not clearly defined enough and provides the possibility of certain manipulations, certain conflicts and certain defaults at low price. The question arises where to find an optimal ratio between the lowest price and the quality? What's hidden on that average and isn't everything below average? The public procurement market is the strongest extreme market, and it is too narrowly defined. A code of conduct should be drawn up to remove a series of irregularities and the possibility of illegal proceedings. Whether it's supposed to be done by the State Commission or by some other authority is not up to me to decide, but I think the initiative should come from the state office. It is a large number of lobbyists, a large number of pressures, and what is common in this traffic is most violated because there are no, which are unclearly defined calls, which is not enough offer, which occurs irregularities in so-called. the additional criteria and what is being broken down by the purchase of multiple offers. Therefore, the anti-corruption action programme should also specifically define this segment, which is worth 3 billion 400 million, which is too much to spend beyond legal public procurement, which is also the basis for possible corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57833	Thank you very much. State Commission President Goran Matesic, final review. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57834	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Government. I must first of all thank you for all the comments, suggestions, support and criticism, criticism, especially most because in the past two years since the Commission's constitution, we have felt the negative side of independence and independence, and it can somehow be called loneliness. It seemed to us sometimes that we were quite lonely in this problem, so this assembly debate was personal to me, and probably to my colleagues would be very nice. Transparency and completeness is somehow the policy of this Commission and, in that sense, this report has been done on this principle. It is, in fact, a synthesis and statistical processing of the notes of the subject being attached, and that is why I will repeat once again to those parliamentary representatives who said that they did not find anything in the report. All that is available to the State Commission, and what is not the file itself, is in this annex to the parliamentary report from which it is clearly seen for any public procurement which was the subject of the complaint, under which the number, which is the subject of the procurement, what is the value and how the decision has been made. I'd just like to say that there are some discussions about illegality and corruption. Irregularity, the State Commission decides on legality... procedures and decisions taken. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Irregularity and having as a lawyer speak has different scales of intensity, it does not always mean corruption, of course we are witnesses and we find out from the documentation that the unequivocal cause of illegality is ignorance of regulations. A witness to this is a large number of consultations, which were attended by the State Commission and over the past two years we held about 13 consultations or almost every 2 months on average. These consultations, organised by different consulting houses, have always been generally the most visited of all consultations. That means people don't have enough education and knowledge. So illegality in conduct is not always intended, it is unfortunately and should be taken into account, sometimes it is a fruit of ignorance. In fact, the reasons why the State Commission also wanted to be as comprehensive as possible in its report is that there is no statistical data and I think that our conduct and your debate would be far more objective if there were objective indicators of what is happening in public procurement. Once again, I'm going to say that this report only builds on the 8.16% that came in the complaint, all other phenomena are not here because the State Commission doesn't have that data. I'd like to look back with one sentence, it's said that the State Commission has, that it's a tiger with weak teeth. Of course, that is said in terms of support, it is said that it may be less organised than those on the other side and that this impact of insufficient space and a small number of personnel, an insufficient number of personnel working with it in 2004, is not in parity with, therefore, the quality of work cannot be mated. I would like to say that there is no need to question the objectivity of the Commission based on these external indicators. In the report you have qualitative indicators that talk about speed, about the quality of decisions, you have, and decisions have been subject to a trial before the Court of Justice, so you have a ratio of success or failure and you also have a list of legal persons who have conducted a competition that, whose competitions have been annulled. From that list, I do not conclude that this Commission did not have teeth and muscles in the fourth and neither the courage nor the knowledge to perform its function. In the end, I would have to answer the questions of MP Kramaric, who asked the question concerning the statutes. Of course, the State Commission has the Statute because it adopted the Statute and the condition of the start of work of the State Commission was the adoption of the Statute by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, the government adopted the Statute, the Statute came into force at that moment. The State Commission has other acts, it has the right to work, the regulation on the structure it brings on its own, and the third question was, sometimes this issue of the Statute appears, but it probably appears as a misunderstanding. The law states that the way of work will be arranged by the Statute. It should not be doubted that the provisions of the Statutes of the way the State Commission works are not prescribed in more detail or otherwise than the law, since procedural provisions under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia can only be governed by law. The State Commission therefore acts when it works in accordance with the Law on the State Commission and the Law on Public Procurement and the Subsidical application of the General Administrative Procedure Act. Therefore, there are no specific procedural provisions in the Statute that could create a dilemma as to how the State Commission behaves. The relationship between the Public Procurement Office and the State Commission is governed by law. Our functions differ. The Office is one government service agency that has a statistical function, where it finds that there are certain criminal or criminal offences, submits criminal and criminal charges. They have an education function, statistical data processing. The state commission with the office cooperates within these, in part, separate and yet complementary responsibilities, we participate in the procedures of education, and here are the tweeting projects that we both run parallelly, we will give some draft legal texts, so either on the control procedure, or on the Public Procurement Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57835	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Annual report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. I am voting on the next conclusion, a report on the work of the State Commission to control the procurement process for 2004 is adopted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. How about a score? With 97 votes, the proposed conclusion was unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57838	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57839	Thank you. There's still a vote to vote on. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 91 votes for and 4 abstentions, the proposed conclusion proposed on behalf of the HNS Club was accepted by the respected representative Dragutin Lesar. Excuse me, Mr. Radosh. But Mr. Lesar suggested it there. Let's move on. It's supposed to be followed. Now we're going to eight. The proposal for a decision to appoint the Chief State Attorney of the Republic of Croatia has been submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Article 124(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee on Justice delivered a preliminary opinion. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain his opinion? Deputy Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57841	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. Here I was given the duty, a pleasant duty to propose to the Croatian Assembly the appointment of Mr Mladen Bajic for a new term of office as chief state attorney. As you know, the Croatian Parliament appointed Mr Mladen Bajic to the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia at a session held on 24 April 2002. The term of office is of course four years. It is currently running out and, therefore, the government established in its session in early February a proposal for a decision to appoint a top state attorney. It is our suggestion that it be again for four years, Mr. Mladen Bajic. I'm going to say a few arguments that the government supports this proposal. So, that the attorney general is appointed for another term of office. In the past four years, Mr. Bajic, a consolidated organisation of the state's attorney's office, has been performed during the duties of chief state attorney. The necessary urgency has been achieved and international cooperation is urgently needed, thus fulfilling the basic assumptions for the more effective work of this judicial authority to prosecute the perpetrators of criminal offences and protect state property. During this period, annual reports by the State Attorney's Office on the state and movement of crime and affairs on the protection of the property of the Republic of Croatia were discussed at the meetings of the Government and regular adoption at the meetings of the Croatian Parliament. The improvement of the organisation and better efficiency as seen by the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been achieved, above all, by strengthening the internal organisation of the State's Attorney's Office, by increasing the urgency and efficiency and by developing as I have already mentioned international and regional co-operation. At the end of 2001, we remember the State's Attorney's Office was in pretty bad shape with damaged internal relations and major lags. The annual report for 2001 was not accepted at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament due to poor indicators of work, lack of uniform policy of criminal persecution and lack of governance and management of the State's attorneys. In the past, joint work has been improved. Internal relations between criminal and civil-government departments have been arranged so that the State's attorneys are now acting as a whole. It is expected that in the first quarter of this year and the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime will be fully organised with the necessary capacity to carry out all the tasks under its jurisdiction. Permanent surveillance of the work of state attorneys has also been introduced in general, and in particular work in complex cases, so that it can be said that such a system of governance has been established that enables continuous and effective monitoring of work and individual cases. Increased awareness and success in the process would not be possible without improving working conditions, staff completion and of course education. Over the past four years, material conditions have been improved for the work of state attorneys and 225 new deputy state attorneys have been appointed. Education is therefore given great attention. In addition to regular education, most of the work has been completed on making manuals for the work of state lawyers who are particularly useful for the work of under-experienced advisers and deputies. In order to establish clearly what is appropriate, and which is not in the work of state lawyers and deputies, a adopted and ethical code has been drawn up which, in accordance with European standards, sets socially acceptable ethical standards for the work of state lawyers and deputies, and their relationship with other institutions and the social environment. Ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary representatives of several more figures on what has been achieved in these four years in the work of the State's Attorney's Office. At the end of 2001, 7728 applications were pending in the State Attorney's Office, representing almost two months of inflow of new applications. At the end of 2005, about 150 applications, or less than a two-day inflow, remained unsolved. The work on criminal cases has also been stepped up, so the average of the admissions to the State's Attorney's Office is reduced to three months until a decision on the application has been taken, thus reaching the urgency of the state's attorneys' offices at European level. As part of the application is, however, resolved beyond that average, special supervision has been imposed on those cases with the aim of each applicant of a criminal application, i.e. the injured party, within the appropriate time limit, to know the decision of the State Attorney's Office. As for the success of action, there have been visible shifts. At the end of 2001, there were 81.4% condemning verdicts, and in 2005, 87.8% of convictions could be considered a high degree of success. During the past period, both regional and international co-operation has been promoted, as the state's attorney's office had no special international contacts until 2002. The state's attorney's office has joined all international and regional agreements of prosecutors with the aim of strengthening cooperation and curbing certain types of crime. In addition, it has initiated the conclusion of direct agreements with prosecutors in certain countries on joint work to prosecute serious perpetrators of criminal offences, thus taking the lead in the region. In daily contacts with the prosecution of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia has proven its credibility and competence to take over and act in the cases of that court, which is why at the end of the year, as the case is known and settled, Ademi, Norac. It follows from all of this that over the past four years, through increased work, the redistribution of cases from state courts that have had major delays in less-loaded state attorneys and by filling state attorneys has made significant progress on the internal plan in which the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia's personal contribution has been incorporated as seen by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to conclude that the state's attorney's office has become up-to-date over the past four years. Effectiveness in criminal and civil cases has been increased and significant progress has been made in cooperation with prosecutors in other countries, allowing for further improvement of labour and efficiency and, in particular, I repeat again in the pursuit of serious forms of crime and the protection of the property of the Republic of Croatia. Due to everything presented, Mr. President, the government of the Republic of Croatia is proposing to appoint Mr. Mladen Bajic for a new mandate for the next four years in the State's Attorney General's Attorney General. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57842	Thank you, Madam Deputy Prime Minister. The chairman of the Justice Committee, the respected representative Emil Tomljanovic, will present the previous opinion of the Committee on the Government's proposal to appoint a chief state attorney. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57843	Dear Mr. President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. The Board of Justice of the Croatian Parliament shall, on the basis of Article 73(1), paragraph 6. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 38th session held on 28 February 2006 the proposal for a decision to appoint a chief state attorney to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 2 February 2006. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously identified the previous opinion: The proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is supported by the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 2 February 2006 to appoint Mladen Bajic as the chief state attorney of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and, in conjunction with the provision of Article 32(1), paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, claimed and submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament the proposal to appoint Mladen Bajic as the main state lawyer of the Republic of Croatia. At a meeting held on 24 April 2002, the Croatian Parliament appointed the main state lawyer of the Republic of Croatia. The main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia shall be appointed at the time of four years by the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with the prior opinion of the competent board of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with the provisions of Article 73(1), paragraph 6 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee for the Justice of the Croatian Parliament, is the committee responsible for giving a preliminary opinion in the procedure of the appointment and resolution of the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The State Attorney's Office Act is prescribed that a person who meets the general and specific conditions for appointment as deputy in the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia may be appointed as the principal attorney. On the basis of cited legal provisions, the Committee discussed the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Proposer representatives pointed out that Mr. Mladen Bajic has shown high professional qualities in his work so far, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia again proposes his appointment as chief state attorney. In his statement, candidate Mladen Bajic stressed that the priority of the work of the State Attorney's Office in the next term would be to retain the up-to-dateness of increasing quality and efficiency in criminal prosecution, protecting state property, curbing organised crime and corruption, and improve international co-operation. By considering the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Committee members are unanimous in assessing that the proposed person with the experience so far, professional work and results can respond to the demands and duties of the attorney general. The Committee referred to nextly established the previous opinion submitted to the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57844	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. HSP representative club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57845	Dear Mr. President, Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The first thing I have to say on behalf of the HSP Club is that we are glad that this time the government has launched a procedure to appoint the attorney general for the next four years. And we know ourselves that in this session of the Parliament, we have had a few situations that are not exactly at our will either for the representatives, probably for the public, that was the question of the appointment of the President of the Supreme Court, we know what kind of situation we've had and that we've done it essentially beyond the deadline. The second was the situation regarding the appointment of a child counsel, unfortunately today we do not have a lawyer for the children. And the third was this morning's situation regarding the appointment of Judges of the High Court of Commerce. So this is the path that the Government is always, where it is competent and where the proposer should act in this way. So, the procedure was conducted in good time, was carried out in a legal manner and was fully implemented because on 22 April, however, Mr. Bajic's mandate, which means on 22 April 2002, was appointed the main state attorney for a period of 4 years. The HSP club will support the government's proposal to appoint Mr. Mladen Bajic as chief state attorney for the next four years. We need to be aware and realistic that in this period of four years, a lot has been done to settle, for situations within the state's attorney's office. Many things have also been implemented that were important for Mr Bajić to gather a team where he will be able to meet the demands of the Croatian public, as well as all that we expect. We must be aware of the fact that it will not be an easy job for Mr. Bajic for the next 4 years because in Croatia strange situations occur. Organized crime is on the rise, especially when it comes to heavy robbery, or heavy theft, robbery. We ourselves are aware of the situation that there is a certain way of jeopardising the general security of Croatian citizens. It is mainly related to the area of the city of Zagreb, where recently, a lot of so-called heavy thefts and robberies happened back in 3.4 months. But here again we must be aware that we of these three main levers, meaning that the rule of law would work and that both the legal and general security of Croatian citizens, of these three levers, police, attorneys and judiciarys would now act only one effectively. In this case, it's a state's attorney's office, but we can't have full and expected results for general security and for the rule of law unless the police start acting on what's needed to be done in terms of detection. The procession goes further to the attorney's office, but I'm saying we can't even be satisfied with the work of the judiciary because it's only visible that there are many cases that the media extend. Let's just say, narcotics and others, that you have people who, with 92 criminal charges, with 92 proceedings, are at large and walk freely. We're getting more and more cases like that. And I'm saying, we can't all expect the attorney general to do it because his part is just one part, a third of that whole job. And unfortunately, and what the chief state attorney said, he's going to try to keep up-to-date with increased quality and efficiency in the prosecution. Unfortunately, it's not just him. Normally, he will have to do a lot in the sense that the whole part of the attorney's office is being carried out in due time, effective evidence and everything else, but we are left with that part of the worst, which is the work of the judicial authority and timely processing, as well as the actions of the police. Therefore, it is logical and normal for Mr. Bajic to have quality, for four years he worked but now we expect him to really take this part seriously. So, both the police and the judiciary are encouraged by their work and by the work of the state's attorney's office in order to make this negative trend, meaning, increasing serious crimes, organised crime, corruption and everything that plagues and tortures Croatian citizens and we are present here to end it and to strengthen the general security of Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57846	Thank you. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57847	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Vice President of the Government, the Honorable Madam Minister, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. Clearly, there is no doubt, the IDS will vote for Mr. Bajic. We believe he's done a big job in the last two years. Among other things, he is largely responsible for Croatia's recent start of negotiations. I'm referring here specifically to the case of Ante Gotovina. Finally, his person communication with Carla del Ponte has also helped Croatia a lot. I am so particularly pleased to say that today is supported by HSP. I don't know, however, whether you would support him under the same conditions in 2001 or 2002. Either Croatia today, unlike Bosnia and Herzegovina or Serbia, is not called for non-cooperation with the International Criminal Court. Once again, I will say to a large extent the merits of Mr. Bajic. Croatia, however, will still deal with the mortgages committed in the war. There's enough mention of Sisak, Laura, maybe Osijek, etc. Speaking of Laura, Mr. Bajic, by decision of the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Suška, until December 6, 96, of February 3, 92, with the rank of Croatian Army captain, served as deputy military prosecutor. Anyway, this Laura guy keeps going through our press. It was probably such a time when the judiciary led a policy, when the judiciary, i.e., the judiciary was not autonomous and there seemed to be a distinction between the crimes of Croatian nationalities and those of Serbian nationality. Because to quote Judge Vukovic, War Crimes, I quote him, "is not possible to commit in the defence war". However, we must be aware after 2000 that opportunities are changing in this country. True, Croatian politics when this page of our history is still wandering, but opportunities change for the better with perhaps one subjectivity that is around it present. The opposition then, mainly in that period until 2003, 4 each attempt to shed light on some of these events, today the opposition was hit by a coup on the foundations of Croatian statehood against the Homeland War. In one word, by impacting the stability of the Republic of Croatia. In such an atmosphere a lot has happened, I will not now convince the gatherings in Split, Osijek, Zagreb, etc., picking chestnuts here, not far from this House and so on. At the end of 2003, it is easy for it to lose its financial support for international financial circles, and the power cannot be maintained without 10 billion foreign debt, and an economy, or a bank without nearly 30 billion kuna. In this context, the biggest thing Mr. Bajic and the HDZ government have done is co-operation in the case of Ante Gotovina for which I keep pointing out, and I don't think he's guilty because of those qualifications around the ethnic ones, nor do they say, Carla Del Ponte, a criminal enterprise or arson after the Storm. Anyway, this is the last one that blames him for someone else. Unfortunately, the State's Attorney's office didn't do anything about the conversion. For the simple reason that nothing can be done and everything that has fallen into obsolescence, that is to say, only knowing that if these issues were opened, which are already topics related to the economy, everything in this country would be economically blocked, so you don't know what's smarter. Do these individuals we know in which way they've gone after or, under quotes, "rehabilitate". That I am right to testify and report to the State's Attorney's Office for 2004 where only two people are said to be, these are the State's Attorney's office's data, when the conversion or revision of privatisation is due, so only two people are suspended and two are fined. Now we can think how hard it must have been for them and what kind of work they were in that area, the gentlemen of the State's Attorney's Office and our courts did. So much for the biggest robbery in this nation's history. But it's moving. Right, every day happens, say, in this country, you rob some bank, post office, etc. But I'm saying that again, it's not the State's Attorney's office, it's our police. In one word, and I will mention it, Mr. Bajic, unlike the previous state lawyer Mr. Ortinski Zagreb, walks with no police protection and is essentially a positive person. That's exactly what I want to underline. And you should admit that. I want to believe he'll be independent of politics in power. It's very good that he did, that his appointment took place in the term of the former government. He continued to work in the current and here's term of office again, under quotes, mandates. Unfortunately, on the other hand, people in our judiciary are not satisfied. They're not happy either with the Attorney's Office, but I wanted to tell you how it was about '92, '96, how it was in 2000 or 2002, how it was today. Croatia, on the other hand, we all know that there are only 15 years of democracy, and it is clear that the state's attorneys are also going through maternity distress, and that many state lawyers have been at lower levels dependent on politics, it certainly stands, especially if it is true as our former minister claimed that she was suggested who should be president of some, under quotes, "high courts" in the Republic of Croatia. Clearly, politics will continue to influence who will be the president of which court, who will be the president or chief state attorney. However, Mr. Mladen Bajic certainly deserved another appointment. Absolutely this appointment should be supported. I feel guilty because it's the current state attorney that he's not here today because I'd ask him publicly what the State's Attorney's office is doing about this raving, under allegations of "with this crazy cow" where we sent the wrong cow's brains to Great Britain. Who's cheating on who? Who's cheating on whom? The beef miracle lasted only 15 days. From the impossible we have made it a miracle as if we were living in the first year of the first millennium. Today, gentlemen, all of this comes back to us with a boomerang and then it's a question of what the country's reputation is in the world when we're playing with the health of our own people. To conclude, the appointment of Mr. Bajic, I will say once again, should be supported. It was proposed by the former government. He was chosen by the former assembly of Parliament. He continued to work for these governments as well. This Parliament has been supporting him all along and deserves to continue to work. I am convinced that the MPs in this House will consensually support him by saying "acclaiming." Therefore, in the state's attorneys at these local levels perhaps another time, but once again I will say, for the fourth, fifth time, Mr. Bajic should be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57848	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57849	I'm correcting several incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague of Cain. First, in connection with the work of the military prosecutions that were in operation until '96. A year. Mr. Kaja's military prosecutions have performed their roles and tasks. A significant number were processed through military courts themselves, and after that it took over, the entire paperwork was taken over by the county's attorneys and courts of the county, as such was the decision of the Croatian Parliament. And look, from this insinuation around HSP, we Mr. Bajic means we support it because it is primarily independent of politics. So that's the HDZ club's decision. That's what the HSP Club is about, we'll never consult you about. Get past HSP. Take care of yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57850	Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57851	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here I am correcting the inaccuracies of my colleagues that the greatest robbery of the Croatian people was made in the '90s. Well, the biggest robbery took place in '45, '49. when all the entrepreneurs at the time were left with nothing, driven out into the street, lost nothing. Interestingly, at the time the greatest crimes were committed, but it was done by a team that Mr. Cain exclusively praised.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57852	Honorable representative Nikola Vuljanic on behalf of the HNS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57853	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, the Croatian People's Party club will warmly support the renaming of Mr Mladen Bajic. And it's nice to talk about a point like this that seems to have a consensual view that it's a good man, the right man in the right place. The reasons why we support Mr. Bajic are, above all, the exceptional expertise and engagement that is rarely seen in the state service and in this judiciary. The reasons are the same results as the figures can be argued in the previous two reports, which we have had opportunities to analyse in this House. It's one of the people who engages with the heart in the system, and that's what needs to be said. It's an irrational category, but in a business like this, it has its weight and it has its value because it's a rare quality and one that opens up some optimistic perspectives. Finally there's wisdom. Mr. Bajic manages to survive two completely different mandates. One term in one coalition, the second term in the second coalition, which means he's a smart man and he's doing his job well. It should in particular highlight its role in co-operation with the Hague tribunal, a role which has resulted naturally despite all other opening negotiations with the European Union. But Mr. Bajic will all praise and praise him, so there is no need to overdo it. In front of him is a huge amount of work that may be too much for one man. First of all, it's corruption, corruption and corruption again. This bogeyman who keeps pushing us to the bottom of Europe, then even across the bottom a little bit over there on some other continents, the State's Attorney's office is trying to deal with it. However, it is evident that he alone cannot do so. The question is how many other two pillars of repression work. So, the police and the judiciary. There is another task that the Croatian People's Party Club will certainly draw attention to both Mr. State Attorney and other parts of the system in the future. This is an increased emphasis on the violation of labour rights, in particular Article 143. A penal law that breaks systematically in Croatia every day. There's very little to report. An investigation even less, a conviction almost nothing. There's also a question of drugs and organised crime. We see that in some places citizens try to take matters into their own hands. I don't know what to do, but they're obviously desperate. Such things wouldn't happen if they weren't desperate. There is another segment of the functioning of the repressive apparatus of the rule of law where we have completely failed. Of course, there are drugs everywhere in the world, but not in a public way like in Croatia. Apparently, one of the segments of the State's Attorney's Office's work over the past four years has been slightly neglected, it hasn't worked, and that's co-operation with the police. We are convinced that Mr. Bajic can meet the demands of the moment even in this situation in which the Croatian overall judiciary is with a delay in screening. The reasons we all know from the press with the inconclusiveness of changing the previous minister, with a scandal over the election of the President of the Trade Court and so on. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, I hope there will be no problems with the vote. I want Mr. Bajic and further success in the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57854	Thank you. SDP club respected representative Ivo Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57855	Madam Vice President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, it's very easy to actually go out for a pay phone in cases like this when there's a general agreement on a question, which is in this case the choice of a top state attorney and indeed the SDP club shares the opinion of the other representatives' clubs that it's about the person who deserves the trust of this House. However, Mr. Bajic is a kind of phenomenon. Why is the phenomenon I would say it for the reason that the way it works and its relative success is even against the circumstances in which it works. I would say that his success or his example to this society can be analysed through several lessons that I would call Bajic's teachings and which consist in several thesis. First of all, when we listen to everything nice that we all speak together with the right of Mr. Bajic to listen to us from Germany, the Netherlands, France, I would think that our judiciary and the State's Attorney's Office are working all five, that there are no problems and that everything is beautiful and wonderful. But we know that's not the case. We know that our judiciary is burdened with serious diseases and, of course, in such a system and the State's Attorney's Office has its problems and I would say that this very first Bajic lecture shows that Mr. Bajic's merit is that in difficult conditions, in the problems the State's Attorney's Office has persistently and slowly repairs the state of the State's attorney's office every day. Unfortunately, Mr. Bajic still has a lot of work to do. His job to get the state's attorney's office to function as part of the judiciary as we'd like it to be at the beginning. I would look back, and I would say that there is one major important segment that is the USKOK fight against organised crime and corruption, where our entire society has not produced good results. The continuation of work on what Mr. Bajic has done very successfully is a revision of the procedures for war crimes where he stands down, but we are moving slowly from the political and discriminatory criteria, in the pursuit of war crimes. Co-operation with The Hague has already been discussed, but I would also say on the agenda of ordinary, daily crime when numerous state attorneys on the ground unfortunately are not in a position to carry out their duties on an up-to-date basis. Mr. Bajic is here and we come to another Bajic lecturer realist. He knows that he can't instead of a lawyership in a place of x or a place y himself persecute all the crimes. He's a man who's realistically accessing, knows where the boundaries are, what he can, how much he can move and when he can move. I think it is one of the important qualities that Mr. Bajic has, and that is why these shifts are also visible in the network of state lawyers and in the results that are being achieved. I'd like to warn you of one rather interesting percentage of the success of the charges before the courts. State's attorney's office in one high degree, about 85.86% successfully at the main debate. What I personally see as a problem is perhaps greater and faster selectivity in the stage of preparing the case and in the stage of raising requests to conduct an investigation of direct charges and charges. There's still room here, and I think the State's Attorney's office will still have to work on that. Bajic's third important lesson is media and media relations. Unlike many who perform important duties and Mr. Bajic performs an important duty, he has never had an exhibition in the media, he has never personally worked escapades, nor has he allowed his service to run into the media with data that compromises both people and investigations. It would be good if Mr. Bajic or this High House or Ministry found a way to contain some other services in this regard, I primarily think of those data which, with these or those channels in the media, contradicts the Criminal Procedure Act that the suspect's name will not be withdrawn in the paper without special approval. So if it could be done in the police department as well. Furthermore, Mr Bajic offers us a fourth lesson, which is that when someone is doing a conscious job, they will also find understanding in different political options. Mr. Bajic is known to be appointed at a time of coalition power and we see that he continues his work successfully and that he is supported by the Government of another political omen, and this is a special hope that professionalism will still overcome political approach, I hope not only in the State's Attorney's Office but tomorrow and in other services, and that those people who are and should be professionals will not be on the wind because the relationship of power in this Parliament has moved a little left or a little to the right. That's why Mr. Bajic is maybe more than the State's Attorney, he's kind of an atypical plant to say so in our colorful garden, and he shows something else, shows that here we have through him, we're suggesting something that we all lack in society. We lack something that feels like success and optimism. I don't think we often have that optimism, one way to say it, one motivation that this society and through the verification of what's good shows good and direction towards good directions, and that psychology of success that we can see through the State's Attorney's Office, no matter what I point out, it's far from perfect, the State's Attorney's office still has a lot of work to do, this psychology of success and success is something we should look at, verify and perhaps apply to some other activities and other positions in this society. Here, these are mostly not repeating all the other reasons, the most important things and reasons why the SDP club will support with pleasure Mr. Bajic's election as chief state attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57856	Thank you. For the SDSS club, the esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57857	Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We are clearly giving Mr. Mladen Bajic another mandate in a chair where he will not actually be able to sit for the next 4 years, as I suppose he has not sat in the past years, because if by any chance he sits, I am afraid he would pass as those who sit on those chairs he condemns, because that is indeed the kind of chair, the chair that is hot and the chair where he simply cannot sit. And what I would like to say about this is that Mr. Bajic is probably in a mandate that he will get from this House, so in his second term he should do everything to cool down that important chair of the attorney general. Of course, it can't just be cooled down in case it pours water or anything else cold or possibly ice that could be found somewhere in the hand for that purpose, but above all by breaking all those connections, all those voltages that still power the high voltage current in that chair. And Mr. Bajic has done a lot in his term, and many of these wires are cut off, but as some of my predecessors have already said, there are many others, and that chair is indeed still high-voltage. In that sense, allow me a few words about perhaps the key wires that power that chair with high voltage. First of all, it is a matter of reforming the state's attorney's office and personnel structure and the inherited personnel structure in the state's attorney's office itself, which unfortunately still suffers from serious difficulties, and certainly a number of people within the state's attorney's office and in the very office of the state's attorney's office are tired of working and more than... and certainly that many no longer have inspiration for this kind of responsible, difficult, challenging, infrequent and risky work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The same could be said for some people at the level of county state attorneys who are further away from Zagreb are more under local influence both the atmospheres and circumstances and the people who create and maintain this atmosphere and circumstances. And for this reason, I think that the request for reform of the State's Attorney's Office in all its segments is actually an extremely important and extremely important job that Mr Mladen Bajic may need to deal with even more resolutely in this new term than he has dealt with in this mandate and which ends and which, as many have said, we can certainly assess with a positive assessment despite the dissatisfactions that have rarely occurred in different issues and in different segments. The second thing I would like to say is a question that is of paramount importance mentioned by Dr Josipovic here, saying before me, which is a matter of processing for war crimes and the issue of curbing organised crime in the country. I'm sure I'll start this other one from organized crime. It is absolutely certain that the issue of organised crime and corruption is one of the most sensitive issues, the most challenging issues, and because this issue of the State's Attorney's Office is not only about some conditionalally stated marginally imagined sphere out there on the periphery of Zagreb, but also about the palace of justice, so not only in the centre of Zagreb but also about the judicial institutions. And so it is an extremely sensitive, extremely risky job, and apart from focus and commitment, it requires, in addition to balance, the courage and commitment to the call that this Parliament will, in turn, entrust once more to Mr Bajic. Mr. Bajic obviously has these characteristics and abilities to balance and the ability to be sensitised to different circumstances but at the same time has a vision of what our judiciary should look like tomorrow and without an effective State Attorney's Office certainly can't look good. As for the processing of war crimes, which is of particular importance for the overall legal security and awareness of the functioning of the rule of law, Mr Bajic certainly opened a number of issues in his term that many of his predecessors did not open. Mr. Bajic has embarked on a review of various procedures previously conducted since 92rd, 93rd until these years in which the judiciary unfortunately did not operate at the highest level and at the same time opened a whole series of processes that represented practically impossible missions for others. In this way, the main state attorney actually contributes in a huge way to dissipating from the war heritage and liberating the state from the enormous and heavy burden of war heritage that perhaps people in some other positions were in the sphere of representative or executive authority do not do so to that extent and in such a way as to actually make it the main state attorney with people with whom, in that sense, co-operates closely whether it is the police or whether it is the segments of the Ministry of Justice. The third thing I would like to say is the most sensitive area in terms of cross-border cooperation and international co-operation in the area of criminal prosecution, the co-operation for the prosecution of Mr Bajic opened in his term in a way that previously did not exist with countries with whom the degree of trust in political and other terms of that word by its time is not so much today that we could not possibly enter into some sort of joint procedure. Thanks to Mr Bajic, his co-operation with his colleagues in Serbia-Montenegro was possible for the process of those who committed crimes in Ovcara or Vukovar to be carried out and brought to an end with convictions in the way they were carried out to say they express some kind of high legal standards. This type of cooperation is absolutely safe and extremely important for the general legal certainty not only in Croatia but also in Croatia, if the cross-border character of organised crime is taken into account, taking into account the cross-border character of those who committed war crimes and using the circumstances of insufficient cooperation between countries in order to continue to hide from the reach and reach of the judiciary is also of exceptional importance. And in the end, I don't know how I started with some kind of metaphor, so I'm going to end up not knowing how successful but. Mr. Bajic is indeed a full glass of water, Mr. Bajic has received a glass of water but inside he has also received quite a amount of pollen that needs to be tested. He drank it up to some amount. If we trust him with another mandate and encourage him to do so to the end I think it won't be bad for his health and it will be extremely good for our overall social health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57858	Thank you. For the HDZ Club, respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57859	Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Croatian Democratic Community club will also support the government's proposal to appoint Mr. Mladen Bajic as chief state attorney. The best recommendation for this appointment and for this proposal is, in any case, his previous work in the previous term because, as we know in this assembly, we had two years in a row of report on the work of the attorney general. We rarely heard from this pay phone and individual debates actually refer to the work report that was actually in the superlatives. And on this side, Mr. Bajic is given the fact that when we look at what condition he was found in the appointment of the State Attorney's Office, a large number of pending cases, the unscheduledness, when we look at in fact these four years how he works, we see that the State's Attorney's Office has reached certain standards that are related to the resolution of criminal charges that are being sent here. Then, when we look at the very quality of the acts coming out of that State's Attorney's Office, we see that in most cases these indictments end with judgments that are accepted by the condemned. All of this points to a very high professionalism and thus shows in fact how it is possible to organise a state body in a quality way and how it is possible to achieve a quality result in this work. But in any case, the State's Attorney's office doesn't just have that criminal segment that we're talking about, and we think it's one big challenge standing in front of both the state's attorney and the state's attorney's office, which is the civil-law section of his work. There is certainly something that still has a lot of space and a lot of opportunities and actually a great need to persist in that segment. And this is primarily the protection of property owned by the Republic of Croatia. This is something that will really need a lot of attention in the next period. When we look at the number of procedures in which the Republic of Croatia performs either as a prosecutor or as a accused party, we will see that these data are really difficult and that we can really be concerned about the number of cases in which we are sued as a Republic of Croatia. Therefore, in this segment, Mr Bajić and the State's Attorney's Office must do a lot of work in the coming period to ensure that the overall work of the State's Attorney's Office is good. And in fact, everything that has been said before me and that is likely to be said and I must say that what has been said on the Committee of Justice about my colleague Mladen Bajic is indeed in superlatives and therefore the Croatian Democratic Community Club is especially based on his earlier work supporting this proposal by the Government of Croatia to appoint Mladen Bajic as chief state attorney. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57860	Thank you. Now we're going to an individual debate. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57861	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I support this government's proposal that Mr. Mladen Bajic be re-appointed as a state attorney for the next four years. Speaking and explaining the proposal of Madam Deputy Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor, she argued that it is a pleasant duty to propose such a proposal to the Croatian Parliament. However, the Croatian government should in no way escape any unpleasant duties. But let's put it aside now. So exactly and speaking and explaining the proposal, the government praised Mladen Bajic. Those praises he truly deserves. But it's the credit. So they should not be brought here, and in this particular proposal and the case of the Latin proverb: "Thanking the other one in essence I am praising myself" because what has been achieved is, above all, particularly, the urgency of criminal cases of credit for Mr. Mladen Bajic, his new organisation of the State's Attorney's Office and personal engagement and on inadequate occasions and difficulties to establish control over the work of the State's Attorney's Office. This is Mrs. Secretary, ma'am, but the Deputy Prime Minister should be corrected as well. So the update hasn't been achieved in the last four years. Update is the State's Attorney's Office as you can see from the State's Attorney's Office's report already two years ago. Now, of course, work needs to be improved. We are here, here is the Croatian Parliament voted Development Strategy, the Justice Strategy, the development of the judiciary, but unfortunately no state lawyer or other leaders of the judicial bodies participated in this strategy, and no such representative of the Supreme Court instance with us as was the case before. That's not good. We must therefore do so in order to seriously improve the work of this sensitive service and the works of a judicial authority such as the State's Attorney's Office, because the State's Attorney's Office itself is unhappy with the repression and organisation of crime as well as in the processing and sanctioning of economic crime. But the state's attorney's office with Mladen Bajic doesn't shut up. It warns the government what needs to be done. This is evident to you from the report that is reported every year, which is unfortunately kept silent by the government. So you'll see what the government needs to do to make this job as good as possible? What obstacles does the State's Attorney's Office face in its work? In this report, you will see how it is necessary, just as we from the SDP Club are constantly emphasising the modernisation of economic incrimination. But the government says: no, this will be done in some subsequent stages. When? Obsolete deadlines, out-of-date deadlines, maybe they'll expire. That's exactly what the State's Attorney's Office's report warns. Also in suppressing the crimes of drug abuse. You'll also see here. Where is the work of the State's Attorney's office and the courts exhausting? In possession of those petty drug addicts. And that is exactly what the State Attorney's Office finds unsatisfactory in countering, or the most serious forms of these crimes, where that is what prevents them from doing. Where they are exhausted, and on the other hand they lose valuable witnesses in these procedures. It also warns of inappropriate work. The government has done very, very little in this regard in these last two years. We started with the development and the state's attorney's office. First of all, in terms of both equipment and space. Remember? But here in the last two years, the Ministry has provided for itself... The building, and the State's Attorney's office, nothing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have secured another 4.5 space for the work of county state's attorneys. Equalized salaries of state lawyers who were unjustly and significantly less than judges of the same rank. Now Madam Vice President has pointed out how many new state attorneys are employed. It was all done two years ago. What's alarming and what the government needs to listen to the State's Attorney's Office is inefficient police work. The report makes it perfectly clear to you what the number of rejections is, an inaccessible number of rejections that, the criminal charges filed by the police. It also warns that the state's attorney's office would be more effective and the state's attorney in its report warns of the need for further criminal-legal reform in which the State's attorney would be a police officer rather than a prime minister. He has on several occasions, therefore, grave crimes, the prime minister is issuing warrants to the police. It's not good because the police need to work under the law, but as much as we've changed the Criminal Procedure Act, it's a good bypass for this period of 3.4 years for the state's attorneys, and the police themselves to prepare for the new development, to the necessity we've often talked about. I think we even reached one consensus, but unfortunately verbally, to finally lift the investigation in our official process. Because she was often a brake to the success of the procedure. But that's what it's all about. The process and the project were launched several years ago. It's a serious project, and the truth is it can't get into it. It assumes both the change and the additional education not only of the state's attorneys, but also of the police. But this is how we still have the prosecution of crimes on two colossals, the police and the state's attorney's office. It is also a worrying fact that police often do not act on a direct order from the state's attorney's office, after processing a certain criminal application so that they can initiate criminal proceedings. And that the state's attorney's office is powerless. And like this, in this modified system, if you had one line of command, just like it used to be in the past justice strategy and imagined, right here in this one, you don't have a word about it, and that's just a promotion of a criminal trial. And I also think it was, that was a great success just joining the attorney general's office of the former, so as the Civilian Department now of the State's Attorney's Office. And the state's attorney's office can, in an adequate and efficient manner, represent the state and detect all those failures where there was once a possible request for the protection of the legality that is being filed and only the State's Attorney's Office so that it can. And in this way it has just been preserved, i.e. it has been achieved and provided that the state budget is a huge amount, precisely by the additional involvement of the State Attorney's Office which was possible in this very way, even though many then expressed doubts about the merger of the state's attorney's office with the State's attorney's office and this now its civil department. You see, Mr. Mladen Bajic's proposal did not have such enthusiasm and understanding that he was first proposed by the former coalition government. But today, I am pleased to have one such agreement today, because it is by its work and engagement and on this international plan that has shown justification. But another, perhaps this proposal could also serve the government, and especially the restoring ministry, not to be really impressed when someone is proposed and not to be managed, but to look at concrete results, objective indicators, and in this respect and in that sense, they will certainly not be wrong. Especially when the government, or ministry, is now waiting for a large and ungrateful job to be appointed to the President of the Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57862	Thank you. Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57863	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister. Well, as counterpart Josipovic said on behalf of the club, I will also support Mr. Mladen Bajic's election as state's chief state attorney. But I would still like to say a few sentences concerning his work so far, but also what the proposal and previous opinion have said should be priorities, as Mr Bajic wrote would be priorities in his work. It seems to me that we will still go one step further if judicial reform is not continued and financial spatial and humane conditions for the work of the State's Attorney's Office are not improved. But not only at this state level, but at all levels. Unfortunately, the farther the state's attorneys are from the centre, than Zagreb, the harder their work is, unfortunately, the harder they are, and often they are, especially the state's attorneys at municipal levels, often and under the influence of local powers. It seems to me that it is precisely why the chief state attorney with his team to be further teamed up, should work on the local, meaning municipal, and one part the county state's attorneys, even the criteria and even their work at all levels. What does that mean? This simply means that certain acts do not reject any criminal charges as is the case in one State attorney's office, while in another State's attorney's office a criminal proceedings for the same work. It should certainly mean starting education, starting counseling of state lawyers, and that can be done by no one but Mr. Bajic with his team. It has already been said on several occasions that there should be better co-operation with the police. I'm sure of it. It's often happening to us and we're witnessing that everything isn't great and a spa in the work of the State's Attorney's Office. However, given the situation Mr. Bajic has taken over at the State's Attorney's Office, we must all admit whether or not they wanted to be well-intentioned or not, that the recorded steps forward are nevertheless. That is why it should also be worked on the urgency of the conduct of state attorney's offices. I'm particularly referring to those smaller state attorneys. I have already said and it is often repeated, and when we have annual reports on the work of the state's attorneys, I will give an example from the Varazdin County where, according to the report of the workers of ITAS, for almost a year, the police and the municipal state's attorneys should really come up with quality data and protect themselves in this case the most unprotected ones, which are most often workers in Croatian society. That's why it seems to me it's not just a matter of personnel, it's not just a matter of conditions, that this thing is often of good will and better co-ordination between the police on one side and the state's attorneys on the other side. It doesn't seem like everything's great and wonderful. But progress is obvious. There's a lot of homework in front of the State's Attorney's office. That is why I expect and by giving my vote, I hope that Mr. Bajic and his team will mean improving the work of state attorneys at local levels, that there will be better awareness, uniform work and that the effects that will be on the Republic of Croatia will be better than they have been so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57864	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57865	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, there was hardly any speaker so far who has not been caught by the fact that Mr. Mladen Bajic has been proposed by the government for his first term with one political omen, and here today, for his second term, the government is proposing him for his second term with the opposite political omen. What does that tell us? So first of all, this points to the fact that the first appointment was not about political criteria, but only about professional ones. Politics, if it were a political appointment then Mr. Mladen Bajic would not have had the honour of being proposed today by the government of the opposite sign to the same duty. This certainly also speaks of the qualities of Mladen Bajic himself, but be one hope for the future that this government, too, will propose people to be held accountable and not be guided by political criteria but by experts in order to ensure that these people survive in a third, fourth or fifth government. Mr. Mladen Bajic carried out a series of important tasks, solved a series of problems he encountered when he came to this difficult, complex, responsible duty. Here are many here today who have highlighted his uncontested role, his uncontested merit in improving co-operation with the Hague Court. However, it should be fair, not all credit should be credited here only to Mr Mladen Bajic, but also to the others responsible in this regard. Mr. Bajic probably wouldn't have succeeded without having, had it not been for political will, had it not been for the determination to hand over all the defendants to The Hague. In this regard, I think the inevitable role of the government, above all the prime minister who helped the state's attorney, helped him solve this issue. If it hadn't been for the prime minister's action plan that so vehemently interpreted our esteemed president of the Parliament, to locate, arrest, arrest, extradite, there would probably be no Gotovina in The Hague today. There is a proverb that says "it's easy to be a general after a battle", which is obviously true for everyone except Croatia. In Croatia, it seems the most difficult to be a general right after the battle. But, well, it is a period of happiness behind us, in front of Croatia and before the state's attorney there are new battles. It will not be easy to lead them, the state's attorney, above all that battle with corruption, which may be Croatia's biggest problem today. I already spoke corruption today in a debate, in health care, corruption in the judiciary, corruption in the state administration, corruption in politics. Here I am reading today in the Index, at 1 and 10 p.m., the ferry of the ship's Saint-Marine in Supetar was breaking several boats. We are constantly warning in this House, on several occasions we have done it, I personally guess five times, that the concession to this Mr. Buljubašic, the owner... Marine that it's a corrupt act and it's dangerous. Today he was breaking five ships, fortunately no one died, the question is whether or not someone else is going to get their head out alive is the big question. We are constantly warning that this concession was granted solely because Mr. Buljubasic supported the list of Veli Mist and enabled HDZ authorities in Split. It's a corrupt act, dangerous to the citizens, dangerous to their property. He needs Mr. Bajic to continue his work, he needs uncompromising, brave, determined, he can do it, he has shown in life, he has shown in his work that he can do it. It is necessary to expose such corrupt acts in politics, to put an end to them, and also to those who have received such concessions that today threaten the lives and property of citizens, but also those who have allowed them, should finally bring justice to justice. There's a crime in the end. He is not, unfortunately, very little in Croatia. Especially when politics and politicians are involved. Journalists are talking today about a recent scandal in Virovitica a few days ago, a man was beaten up, allegedly beaten up in a completely drunk state by a politician, and police are reporting that the damage has fallen down the stairs. The state's attorney has to act, he's got to go into the investigation when he gets his voice on some crime. He has to check whether that voice is true or not, whether it's a crime or not. It'll take courage, it'll need determination, it'll need knowledge, it'll need support from politics and the general public to have the state's attorney do all these tasks ahead of him. He won't be able to do it alone, he won't be able to do it without the help of the entire society. However, I have no doubt that Mr. Bajic as a person has both the courage and the determination and the knowledge to deal with these too difficult problems, I wish him every happiness in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57866	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57867	Well, I'd like to correct the allegations, actually, this serious beating of Mr. Stazic where his colleagues are laughing at him all the time...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57868	Correct the quote, false quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57869	I would correct that if Mr. Buljubasic had won the concession because he supported Mr. Sanader and HDZ. It's clear to me that you're sorry he didn't support you. I don't know if he supported us, but Mr. Buljubasic received a concession as prescribed by law and your claim is not correct. If you have any other knowledge, then report it to the institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57870	The Republic, the honourable representative of Krunoslav Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57871	The concession is now a county award by law and regulation. There were no elections sure who would win or a list was formed, and before that, the government of the coalition before this was granted two concessions to San Mara again under the law and regulation. Therefore, it is surprising that the false data is actually unfounded, guilty, repeatedly repeated in this House of Commons.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57872	Replicate response, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57873	You see, dear colleague, you are surprised by my endurance to point to what all of Split and all of Croatia know. And I'm surprised by your perseverance to defend indefensible. It wasn't Buljubasic, you claim here, that he won the concession because he supported HDZ, but I guess because he's a good shipmaker. So what a good boatman proves that he's already hit the Supetar marina once before, and today again, be careful for the first time in sailing, today his ferry has been driven away. They don't even know the ships. The ferry can't tie to which you gave him the concession. He's such a good boatman, and because of his quality, he must have won a concession. If you continue to share concessions with such high-quality shipmen, they will break the entire coast, all the fleet, all the boats that are tied up. And you'll get power maybe not in Split yet, but you'll buy somewhere else.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57874	Dear Representative Krunoslav Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57875	Your Honor, Mr. President, Madam Minister. It is precisely this Croatian government that put the most professional and most capable people first, and this proposal to choose the chief state attorney shows that all other considerations are completely eliminated and that the only thing that can be said is about expertise. There is a modern approach, there is a reform of the judiciary that needs to truly create such legal certainty, primarily because of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and then all others can be the demands of Europe and the developed world. What I would point out as most important is a reunion in the state's attorney's office. Professional, capable people, but also at lower levels from municipal to county lawyers. I am thinking primarily of the Split-Dalmatia County and I am talking about the whole system that, in order to be the state's attorney general and the state's attorney, should be effectively provided with daily support. In collaboration in the first row, and then in realising working conditions, material assumptions and good co-operation with all other ministries. Both the Ministry of the Interior and the Justice, but also everyone else, because only as a team and joint approach can get good results from which we are all really expected to do so. The successful work of the state's attorney's office says that a system promoted by this Croatian government can indeed be achieved by choosing the best and most capable people. The most professional of careers, as well as the state's chief attorney who has passed all the steps in his current development, began as an apprentice in the municipal prosecutor's office at the time, and the county's, so the deputy who understands very well what kind of environment a good framework for the judiciary can be made, for the state's attorney's office. He was even the deputy military prosecutor in the military prosecutor's office in Split. It's decorated. So he didn't hesitate to catch a stake with the biggest difficulties and problems in the then-Croatian war-affected country. It should also be pointed out that the Croatian Government's strategy in judicial reform can be even more effective if this House does indeed help in the debates by making concrete decisions, accepting legislative proposals as it requires the situation and the real situation in the Republic of Croatia. Because we are the country of a very active legislation, that's what our discussions say, the numerous proposals of the laws we have passed, but also the way in which we are going to set our own example as parliamentary representatives, we must show that the only expertise, effort, justice, honesty and morality can also be an image for other parts of Croatian society. I therefore accept this proposal for the appointment of the Attorney General as a colleague who was purely on the opposite side of the now-proposed State Attorney General. He's in the public prosecutor's office, and I'm a lawyer, always a fair fight, principled, based on laws and regulations. And therefore I think that the support that we now provide in the election of the chief state attorney must also be in the future to persist, the Croatian State's Attorney General really be the personnel teamed up with the best and most professional people. Starting with municipal, county and to the main state attorney here at the Zagreb headquarters. The main thing to think about is working conditions, equipment, technology, technological achievements, but also above all about education, seminars, various in the Republic of Croatia, as well as seminars that will point out that we are still an integral part of the developed world of Europe. Therefore, this appointment is a confirmation that the Croatian government puts first the most professional, most capable people who guarantee that the strategy and reform of the judicial system will indeed be in line with the Croatian man.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57876	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a decision on the appointment of the Chief State Attorney of the Republic of Croatia. I am voting on a proposal for a decision to name Mladen Bajic as chief state attorney. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I note that with 97 votes for and one abstention, the decision on the appointment of Mladen Bajic is made to the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia. Congratulations to Attorney General Mladen Bajic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57879	Thank you, Mr. President. So before us is the motion for a decision on the discharge of a member of the State Judicial Council, who is relieved of his duties as a member of the State Judicial Council, Mirjana Ringjan. Explanation. The decision of the Croatian Parliament selected members of the State Judicial Council from 15 July 2005 as a member of the State Judicial Council was elected by Mirjana Rigljan, Judge of the County Court in Zagreb. By letter dated 31 January 2006, Ms Mirjana Rigljan submitted a request for the discharge of the office of a member of the State Judicial Council before the end of the time she was elected because the decision of the Minister of Justice was appointed to the President of the County Court in Zagreb on 27 December 2005. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The State Judicial Council Act stipulates that a member of the Council will be relieved of his duties before the expiry of the time at which he is elected if appointed to the President of the Court and on the day of his entry into office. At its 37th session held on 8 February 2006, the Justice Committee discussed the request for a resolution and discussed it in accordance with Article 73(1). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament established the existence of a reason for the resolution of a member of the State Judicial Council before the end of the time he was elected. The established proposal for a decision on the reasoning of the Committee shall be submitted to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57880	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. She's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's also losing his right to say a word. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the State Judicial Council. I am voting in favour of the motion for a decision on the discharge of Mirjana Rigljana as a member of the State Judicial Council. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 95 for and one abstention, a decision was taken on the discharge of Mirjana Rigljana as judge of the State Judiciary, a member of the State Judicial Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57883	Dear sir, here's what I'll see. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, gentlemen of honor. When it comes to withdrawing money, and by doing so, the grants are clear that we will all raise our hands for it. The total amount of Croatia from these FAREs, ISPA and SAPARD programmes draws 245m euros and this is certainly respectable money because it means a billion 800m kunas. FARE means in 2005 and 2006 80 million euros a year, that is 160, ISPA in 2005 25 million euros, and in 2006. 35 million euros. SAPARD 25m euros in 2006. So this is about the SAPARD program, i.e. about these 25 million euros or 185 cca million kuna. He refers to agriculture and rural development, it is not controversial. It will only be disputed if the funds are granted on the basis of discretionary will only in those environments that politically correspond with the team in power. For example. if the asset is granted only to those environments that in the local environment or the middle vote for the Government not to say about HDZ. The needs for grants certainly have all Croatian counties. Understandably, agriculture in all Croatian counties is not equally represented, in their economic structures gross product, but no matter what it takes to assume that all these counties have the same need mainly for these grants. On page 52, it literally states what these funds can, i.e. which funds cannot be used for certain purposes and so much that I quote the Commission if it has not decided otherwise, does not allow the following programmes to be financed, meaning under (a) buying, renting or taking on land or existing buildings, under (b) paying customs taxes, import duties, and then not allowing any operational costs, including, maintenance and renting costs, under d) not to be allowed to settle unless, after the end of the settlement of the property, the leaser, under e) costs of any service, material and purchase of goods which cost more than 75 000 Croatian kunas for which the user has not received offers of at least 3 bidders etc., etc. There are the following costs here under point 3. I quote: "They meet the conditions only on the basis of the Commission's decision after examining a case taken within 3 months after the Republic of Croatia submitted a fully reasoned request". These are means under (a) payment in kind, under (b) cost and purchase used goods or equipment and under (c) costs other than infrastructure, human capital incurred by users with more than 25% of the capital owned by the state body or more. Now we know what we can or can use that money for, or now we know why we can't use that money. I would prefer to make it clear that this money is directed to those activities that are most susceptible to imports, to come up with such non-independence from imports, and the emphasis should be placed on the cultivation of these indigenous varieties in my court, it doesn't matter now, from, for example, the help for the Bosniaks and so on. However, it is once again possible for all Croatian counties to calculate in about the same way that they will come to part of the cake. I said here it's about 185 million kuna, with the FARE and this other one, as it's called the ISPA program, it's about a billion 850 million kuna. The second thing to say is Croatia certainly has concrete material benefits from these pre-accession negotiations, and the one who does not see it is in some way blind. Those who are constantly calling Europe because of some god-awful limitations I dare say are largely and unwitting. The last time we had a chance to read that the European Union was defending us from getting what we call the so-called The ship's brake. Here is the goal of strengthening our position on the Adriatic Sea. One good part of this amount of the 185 million kuna may also need to be added to each of those fishermen who will invest significant funds in the modernization of their fleet or their ship in some way subsidising this part of the investment, and you will see that the fish and Croatian part of the Adriatic will certainly be doubled or perhaps double in the next ten, fifteen or twenty years and that they will surely live or relive the almost destroyed fish processing industry together. Why would I bring that up? Because in this way, but with as much as 65% in the County of Istria, it was donated to farmers to obtain some of the vineyard supplies for the purchase of fruit, olive trees, etc. and we can say that it is simply the production of wine if this law is 0.0 promila is not simply rebirthed together with hospitality, tourism, rural households and so on. So, once again, let me say that Croatia is of great benefit from the European Union in a specific case. It would be a tragedy to stay out of it not for what I know, we don't benefit just because of these 100 or 200 million kuna loans or grants. We have the great benefit of simply starting to see us as part of that community. One word, she's our destiny. In one word, in this way we "separate" not geographically but mentally with the Balkans. I know that Croatia is divided or the Croatian public is divided around accession, but the European Union without Croatia can but Croatia cannot without the European Union. At this point, we cannot do without their loans as we cannot without tourists coming from the European Union as we cannot after we have decided on certain goods that come to our market from their space without these goods. So let's try these credit lines in a way that we can fairly divide them, try to fairly assign them to all Croatian counties, let's try in some way to direct the priority to this fishing industry and protect indigenous species. Lastly, I said we'd all vote for it, but it might not be a bad idea for some of the funds to be directed and our veterinarians to stop setting us up like this cow's charm because I have the impression that we've sent out the healthiest cow, that crazy cow, and yet you have to wonder who he cheats on, who he cheats on and who gets the damage. With the health of this people, no one should play games. I am aware that the minister is probably not guilty but someone is responsible for such a situation in this country and then the question is who will be asked because of this bribery, I dare say and play with the health of Croatian citizens eventually and answer. In one word, we are becoming unworthy because of such practice or policy. In one word, this shame is to be talked about today, and it needs to be put to rest because there is no greater capital than the health of the people in this space. In one word, we cannot behave like this because we are not or should not be the Balkans. Nothing. Finally, this proposal for a law on the validation of the multiannual financing agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission should be supported. And I will conclude that some ministry makes sure that all those funds that are not small, 185 million kuna is in play, equally or evenly distributed to all Croatian counties.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57884	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57885	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'm correcting an incorrect assumption that support goes where HDZ is in power. I think it's so ugly that we could actually if it was placed for Europe that we could have all the damage from it. Namely, it is also without facts, without any facts and to convince Mr Cain otherwise to inquire in Zagreb County, so he will see that it is absolutely incorrectly said.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57886	Dear representative Zdenka Chuhnil.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57887	I'm correcting an esteemed colleague who says the funds should be distributed evenly for indigenous cattle, etc. The funds will be deployed on the basis of a plan for agriculture and rural development in 2005/2006. which the European Commission accepts but which our government has run for, and it is a pity that this House did not discuss this very matter prematurely, and perhaps then we could influence that and some of the things in the way that counterpart Cain is proposing are certainly going into it. This is how we have to work on the plan that's been accepted and there's no change, there's no indigenous cattle. There's no balance, there's only a program as planned.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57888	Thank you. And the third correction by the honourable representative of Miroslav Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57889	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must say that it is incorrect for a colleague of Cain to claim that the vets are planting. We must not generalize in any way. There are wicked individuals who do criminal activities but the veterinary service is one of the best organized services in the health care system. And I think it's incorrect for an entire profession to belittle it that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57890	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Law confirming the multiannual financing agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 99 votes for and 2 abstentions, passed the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57899	Thank you very much, Mr. President. After monitoring the implementation of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts, on the prevention of riots in sports competitions, which was adopted on 15 July 2003, respectively, the Government observed certain shortcomings in its application, or observed shortcomings that prevented the achievement of better results in preventing riots in sport competitions, and therefore proposed amendments and additions to the 2003 Law. I will only say a few of the most remarkable data that will confirm the need to adopt amendments and supplement the Law on the Prevention of Disturbation in Sports Competitions, or data on illegal behaviour. Since the adoption of the Act of 15 July against the perpetrator of the offence, 1355 requests for violation have been filed... the law or 1355 requests against 1581 persons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Analysing the structure of the infringements can be found to predominate the possession or consumption of alcoholic beverages, the possession of pyrotechnic means and objects suitable for the application of injuries and the creation of riots during the arrival of competition, burning and disposal of pyrotechnic means, participation in fights, riots. Entering into sports facilities of alcoholic beverages, drugs and pyrotechnics and other illicit forms. In addition to causing riots, there has been damage to material values and what is also evident is that a very common occurrence of relapses among perpetrators. In view of the kind of sports competitions in which riots or violations of the Law on the Prevention of Disturbs are taking place, riots at football matches totaling 244 are prevailing. In basketball competitions 25 and other sports competitions 9. In these competitions where riots occurred, 8 people were seriously injured and 102 people were injured. What is particularly concerned is that 19 police officers have been injured or injured more easily and that other assets have been damaged. So 27 buses were damaged, 21 trams, 3 train cars and 63 passenger cars were damaged. It is evident from this that the law adopted in 2003 did not give the expected results or that riots in sports competitions were not contained to the extent that its adoption was expected. As a result, the government proposed amendments and additions to the 2003 Law. I will tell you what is the basic intensity and intention of the proposed changes by groups of interventions, by groups of interventions that we have done in the existing law. So, first of all, one of the measures is to increase the fines and increase the minimum sentence from 500 to 1,000 kuna. For difficult forms of illegal behaviour, an increase in the lower minimum is proposed from 2000 to 2000 kuna or 10 days in prison, and for the most difficult returnees, a minimum penalty of 5000 kuna or a prison sentence of 10 to 60 days is proposed. A particular problem was the implementation of a safeguard against attending sports competitions for scouts who had been given the safeguard measure because the police had no mechanisms to implement the measure. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law gave the police the opportunity or mechanism to implement the measure in such a way that the offenders to whom the safeguard measure was imposed are obliged to report to the police no later than two hours before the start of the competition. He must inform the police where he is, and in the event of a non-report or inaccessibility to the police, he may be punished by a prison sentence from 2000 to 10,000 kuna or a prison sentence of 10 to 60 days. It is also an obligation for sports competition organisers to have facilities where sport competitions take place with appropriate equipment that can be monitored more quality than at present in sport competitions or in objects and more severe penalties for those sports competition organizers who do not provide additional security measures on sports facilities, or not equipment for these additional security surveillance systems. Some other additional measures have also increased the responsibility and new responsibilities of the organisers, and penalties have been increased for those sports competition organisers who do not implement the prescribed measures. It is also proposed to introduce that police can ban the holding of a sports competition if the organiser has not taken the necessary measures, amidst threatening the safety of the competition. One of the major newspapers is also the introduction of a database on offenders, especially the offenders of relapsers who commit the most serious crimes or offences in sports competitions. And it envisions the possibility of exchanging data from these collections with other countries' police in international police cooperation. Also, the extended scope of this law is because it is not enough to act preventively only on the facilities where sports competitions take place, because it is increasingly common that riots occur not only on the facilities where sports competitions take place, but especially on arrivals, or on return from sports competitions. It is also like the facility under which this law can be applied mentioning means of transport, not just public transport funds so far. Because mass phenomena have been observed that cases of assault are personal cars, not just public transport funds. In short, these are the most important newspapers that we propose these proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Disturbation in Sports Competitions, which we believe will allow us to apply better, more consistent and quality of the law, to make the state of security at sports competitions far greater, to prevent, above all, access to sports facilities and competitions by perpetrators of criminal offences and offences, to prevent the savagery of hooligans on the ground, or sports facilities, and to turn really into places where real fans will be able to view sports competitions in peace, not to be afraid of their own safety and to be exposed to the rampage of smaller groups of people who are called fans but who, with sport cheerleading in sports, have nothing to do with it. We have also witnessed that these hooligan groups have caused great damage to the reputation, the international reputation of the Republic of Croatia by their outflows in competitions in other countries. And for this reason, we are also stressing this interstate co-operation between the Croatian MUP and the police of other countries in order to prevent Croatian hooligans from going wild both in sports competitions and facilities and in other countries. As I said, I believe, if this law is adopted in this form as we have suggested that safety will be significantly increased at sports facilities, that sports facilities will primarily be dominated by the sports atmosphere and the spirit and that police will be able to ensure more effectively the safety and peace of people who want to see sports competitions in peace, not for their own safety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57900	Thank you very much. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure, Political System, Chairman of the Committee Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57901	... Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament at the 49th session held on 1 March 2006 discussed the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Disruption in Sports Competitions submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Parliament. The Committee discussed the draft law on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. During the debate, the Committee supported the decision contained in the proposal for a law, and the following comments were made to the text of the proposal of the Law. I suggest that this law applies to all sports competitions. Control and identification should be established when entering a sports competition, not when buying tickets. It is necessary to review the provision under which the person who has been granted a safeguard or security measure prohibiting the presence of certain sports competitions is due no later than 2 hours before the start of a certain sport competition to join the competent police station. It is also necessary to comply with the provisions of this Act with the Law on Infringements. After the debate, the Committee unanimously proposed that the Croatian Parliament draw the next conclusion. The draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on the prevention of riots in sport competitions is hereby adopted. All comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate on the draft Law at the session of the Croatian Parliament and its working bodies will be addressed to the applicant for the purpose of drawing up the final proposal of the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57902	Thank you. Is there anyone on behalf of the other committees? President of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, Mr. Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57903	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security at the 61st session held on 2 March 2006 discussed the proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Disturbs in Sports Competitions submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The members of the Committee shall be informed of the reasons and interests for which the adoption of the law in question is proposed. The proposer points out that the proposed legislative solutions continue to have a more effective impact on the fight against illegal behaviour and riots in sport competitions. In particular, existing legal solutions are not satisfactory, especially in the area of sanctioning perpetrators of the most difficult forms of illegal behaviour in sport competitions, as well as in the area of enforcement, enforcement of safeguards against offenders. The proposal also states that this legislative proposal provides for the extension of the obligation of the organisers of the sport competition to take measures to prevent riots and violence. The Committee supported the President-in-Office of the Republic of Croatia's position as it assessed that the proposed legislative changes and additions would effectively affect the safety of viewers, competitors and other participants in sport competitions. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to submit a conclusion to the Croatian Parliament: The proposal for a law on the prevention of riots in sports competitions in the text as proposed by the legislator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57904	Thank you very much. Do the other committees want it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First on behalf of the SDP club, vice president and representative Mr. Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57905	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We from the SDP Club immediately at the beginning want to show ourselves that we will support any bill or any other proposal of an act or action that will enable order to be established and we would say normal relations in our sports competitions that will allow regular monitoring of sports competitions without riots, without various forms of violations, violence, if you will and the crime that arises in this regard. Before that, however, we would like to say that the Law on the Prevention of Disturbs in Sports Competitions was passed in the middle, as is known in 2003 and 15 July, and that practically this law applies only for about two and a half years, so full of 2005, 2004 and half, less than half of 2003. We must say that, unfortunately, we must first of all point point to the fact that the application and implementation of this law was not consistent and it was not so if we can say the dynamically feasible as expected, because if we have a situation that has been filed around a thousand 355 requests against the courts that have acted in relation to the requirements that have been filed, and only 749 were resolved then we notice that almost half of these cases have actually not been resolved, and the fact is that one of the essential measures that can contribute to the resolution of the problem in our sports competitions is precisely urgent, i.e. hastentional treatment and even the action of criminal courts on the spot that could and should solve these cases, and in this respect, neither has this bill clearly covered this situation until the end. Secondly, the fact is that in the description of the reasons for the adoption of this law has given quite a good picture regarding the facts resulting from the implementation of this law itself. However, a whole series of infringements related to the Law of Infractions are not covered, resulting in the fact that this lex specialis was actually applied, rather than a total criminal right in situations involving riots, violations and criminal acts related to the field of competition. In particular, it concerns the situation that such misdemeanors occur more and more during which they destroy personal and other property than cars, buses, trains, etc. by fans on arrival and departure from sports competitions, and in fact real data on how it was with compensation for damages, property damage and possible drawbacks in this segment should be practically encouraged by this House to encourage all those to whom the damage has been done, to initiate such proceedings as well as courts to prescribe, in accordance with the law, measures to ensure the compensation of these damages and also to escape profits. It seems, however, that monetary penalties and material penalties are the most likely to calm down slowly and slowly normalize relations. The third thing we would like to note about this law is that, as is generally known, this law has 43 articles in common, and that amendments and additions are covered, or 21 articles are added, and this turns out to be almost every other article to change or supplement, and in such a situation, it was to consider actually adopting a whole new law regardless of what some proposed measures and amendments to the law at first glance, i.e. supplementing it and its completion. The fact that two concepts are also mixed in the approach to resolving unrest and misdemeanors that appear in competitions, which is clear and in such a situation, perhaps a new law should be adopted to consider. But if a whole new law is not passed, then these proposed amendments and additions should somehow be perfected and completed to make the law more consistent and easier to implement and apply in practice. Of course, when we look at this aspect, we would then have observations related to this bill, for example, to Article 1 or former Article 3 here we are talking about sports competitions which are within the meaning of this competition law and now ends sentences where they are said, and in which the team or sports clubs from, the club from the Republic of Croatia participate. What is it about international competitions in the territory of the Republic of Croatia when clubs outside the Republic of Croatia are involved? This is not resolved until the end, and in such a situation this issue should be covered wider and, of course, not only should it be covered but cooperation between these clubs should also be included, especially when they jointly determine the guest and domestic team or the guest and domestic teams of possible directors who should ensure peace, order and undisturbed competition in a particular battleground. In particular, we would like to warn of some other things that are related, for example, to Article 4 and then later through its development. It should, later, be discussed through the development of amendments, i.e. the current article 2 that is changing, where it is said about the introduction of banners of flags or actions that actually disperse and promote hatred, violence, racial, national, religious, etc. those other specialities. Such discrimination should be discussed in all provisions not only in this Article 2 or Article 4 of the old law supplementing it. In this context, we also point out that this issue of the introduction and possession of sports weapons by competitors who are quite rightly indicated that they can enter that weapon, but the fact is ignored that often times these sports props, in this case the sports weapons are worn by their weapons, worn by their trainers etc. Therefore, this provision should be developed so that those who, of course, are repairers or accompanied by a sports competitor so that it is not, because otherwise, if it is strictly interpreted then it will only have to be worn by a shooter or a shooter with a small-caliber rifle or I do not know any other, etc. In this context, allow us to immediately ask a rather interesting question related to Article 3......................................................................................................................... However, we have in Article 6. The proposal to amend and supplement or former Article 14 where it is said in the new paragraph 2 if the sport competition is assessed with high risk of riots and violence, the organiser of the sport competition is obliged to keep records of the tickets sold or allocated in a way that is recorded, it is impossible to ensure this in fact in the case of ticket sales. This must be ensured when entering a sports resort and must be done by persons trained and trained in accordance with the rules to be adopted by the Minister of the Interior. The officers who will be at the front door, or the gates that will have to provide that part, must be able to record these issues properly and provide that information to the police as necessary if there are particularly difficult forms of unrest. And of course, misbehaving, or inadmissible behavior. In this context, a specific question is raised where it is recommended or proposed, norms are prescribed for the police to make amendments and additions to Article 10, that is, ex Article 28. ... The Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with Article 5 of this Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now this isn't the end of it. In this article 5, I mentioned paragraph 3, concerning, of course, the article on sports competition 14 where the records should be provided. Now, if the police with a new sentence are obliged to warn them to act on a police order to take security measures for the preparation or organisation of a sports competition, then there is no more to be assessed. But if he didn't do it then the competition would be banned especially if it was declared a high-risk competition. Because there's no need to evaluate it because it's actually giving a new valve of subjective behavior to the one on the spot, which doesn't have to be compared to the objective reality actually right. And that part, given that the first reading is once again stressed, should in some ways try to edit and prepare it further, until the next reading, or until the second reading of the final proposal of the Law. We'd like to make another remark. Among other things, in Article 10, the directors, as individuals, are authorised to conduct certain actions and in this respect, are actually the organiser of sports competitions through their directors, which he determines, etc., or together with a sports team who can jointly determine, have public authority and individuals in the exercise of the public authority of the sport competition, have certain public powers. And we believe that, in addition to the fact that the rules of training of the staff of the directors in the sport competition, which will be brought by the minister, our first observation that we should, all of these persons, have to pass the exam. Not only would they be trained and given some assurance but they would have to receive the exam, they would have to obtain a certificate that they could exercise the public powers referred to in Article 5, that is, Article 10, because they are very broad and very important. From being able to identify a person personally to asking him to take some data, even to examine whether he has drugs, drugs, opiates, etc., etc., which can only be done by authorized persons. Therefore, we believe that this part of the Regulation should be further elaborated on how these issues and, of course, prescribed that an appropriate examination should be passed, an appropriate certificate should be obtained. Of course, the question arises in this context, and who will bear the costs of paying for this exam, preparing and conducting the exam itself. We would also like to draw attention to these solutions that are related to this Regulation that will be adopted within 6 months. You know, that rulebook is practically important. Without him, this amendment and supplementation of the law means nothing. So we'll get new directors, they'll get new powers with amendments and additions to the law, and they'll only be able to apply them once they pass the exam. So how's the rulebook in six months? I think that deadline should be significantly, significantly shortened. That it shouldn't be more than 60 days. The more this is done in the respect of German legislation, and in this respect there are experiences and knowledge that can be easily exploited, the Minister of Police can easily adopt this rule and speed up this issue. A rather interesting situation is about sanctions, especially when it comes to so-called sanctions. the measure, which may be expressed as a precaution to the person who made an incident in the sport contest, was punished and which was granted the measure that must appear compulsory in the place of residence at least two hours before the sport competition, or two hours after the completion of the sport competition. Or, if she changed her residence of course she had to report again, and it is located in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, the nearest police station would have to come forward. But what's very interesting, you know. For that offence, if such a person does not appear, the same penalty is prescribed from 2 thousand to 10 thousand kuna and a possible sentence of 10 days to 30 days in prison, as is the case for all of these provisions for infringements referred to in Article 4(4), subparagraph 6, and second subparagraph 7, subparagraph 8, etc., for which he has committed a new offence on the ground. We believe that this is a little too much and that these measures should also be balanced because often there will be a whole series of justifying reasons when an objectively such person cannot come forward, and indeed she has neither been at the game nor wanted to leave nor contributed to any of her actions to challenge additional tense situations that could turn into such an area where the number of violations and the criminal conduct of fans themselves at individual matches will be tightened. The second thing about these sanctions that we believe is the fact that the question of the responsibility of the organizers of sports competitions should be considered in particular, which is not fully worked out. It's been worked out here if he hasn't secured, I don't know, the video, if it isn't, so anything that should allow the police to act. However, if the organizer has actually contributed to the props, sports and cheerleading props that are being challenged and conducted and committed violations such as, I don't know, Bengali, this and that. Because the fact that it's unimaginable that people with refugees as fans start to act on a sports game if the sports directors checked them out and found that they didn't have any weapons, none of this, none of that, took everything away from them, and yet in the middle of the game there is actually a fireworks that is there, etc., etc. Now the question is, where did all those props come from? Well, somebody probably prepared it out there on the ground. You see, that part can't happen to leave a hole in the law, or legal void, which it is. This should also be considered by the second reading, the part being completed so that it must be brought into a position that part of the responsibility for possible riots for sports competitions is borne by and the organizer of sports competitions as well as clubs, not just fans and those who are in the agencies for selling tickets to sports competitions. Thank you very much. We will, of course, support the first reading with the desire to obtain the highest quality bill by the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57906	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDSS club, Mr. Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57907	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The first thing I would like to say to the SDSS club will support these amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Violence in Sports Competitions, as I believe other representatives of national minorities will. Secondly, perhaps more important than this first thing I would like to say is that it would be absolutely wrong if in public it were to get the impression that this House votes a law in which I want to strengthen any form of repression against fans of any sporting event of football or any other more massive type of sports gathering, as it can be assumed that this is a kind of strengthening of repressive measures against the cheerleader tribe conditionally stated, because that is not so. If it were the intensity of this law, I wouldn't be able to support it. I think that the point, and then, of course, and above all, is the obligation of the future action of the police and the judiciary on the basis of the new provisions of this Law to create assumptions not only for one civilized cheerleading, but simply for one regular and stable maintenance of football matches and normal arrivals and the departure of fans to cities where these competitions happen. In that sense, I would like to say the following in favour of it. It is that violence happens to us not only as someone yesterday said at a debate on the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, not only in football that happens in a number of other countries, but less and less in the new... in which it happened 15 or 20 years ago, but with us it happens on water polo, with us it happens in handball, with us it happens in volleyball, with us it happens in basketball, with us it's just that it doesn't happen in what other smaller mass sports are and it's something that's worrying and obviously has nothing to do with sports alone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what I would like to say in favour of this view that this should not be understood as a law that strengthens the repression of fans, above all to say that the really serious and the real problem are clubs and the way clubs deal with both cheerleading groups and the organisation of competitions and abuses of certain sentiments and possible fan strategies in the function of what their expectations are in the competition itself. This could be seen in a number of cases both domestic and international matches and I would like to say something now that my colleague taught me before I went out for a pay phone, it is a clear disproportionate between the amount of money being spent in certain sports, certain competitions and earnings received from visitors, from television, from not knowing what not all the money invested in safety, the amount of money invested in working with fans, the amount of money invested in working with football players, or with athletes. And in that sense, it seems to me that special attention should be paid to the very clubs, or the ones behind the clubs, because most of them are actually responsibilities in them. Other likely police can handle this to a good extent if it comes to groups of hooligans or if it is groups of individuals who in one way or another have associated behaviours that are then transmitted or strengthened at games where one type of expression or manifestation of a reinforced form of aggression can otherwise be strengthened. However, attention should indeed be paid to those who run the administrations, according to the administrations, to those who stand behind as organizers in the whole thing. The other thing I'd like to say is, of course, the police themselves. Recently, two or three nights ago, we were able to see a similar dilemma or a similar issue in terms of justice, and if we as a society are in a situation where, for example, we have a dilemma whether we allow organised groups or individuals of organised crime to decide who will be the judge of this or that court, or whether it will be a state by means of one of their respective ministries or ministers, it is quite clear that we will give priority to the state and the ministry. And if this is a necessary transitional phase, then we will decide on this necessary transitional phase and there is no dilemma and any one in the judicial chamber who tries to cover the court's autonomy at the expense of the protection of the exact autonomy of the judiciary by the body of the government as the ministry actually needs to get a clear message. It's supposed to be a message right here. The police are right, the authorities of the state repression have the right to reach for measures repressive in cases where people do not respect legality and do not respect their own safety, the safety of other people, and not to create some kind of repression state, in order to create measures of police siege here or there, but simply to prevent violence from taking over those dimensions, to accept those dimensions that simply cannot be accepted. We cannot be recognized as a country whose fans here and there and at home and on these types of matches appear not fans but individual groups, and in that sense, of course, will be a special responsibility to the police not to go beyond the limits of the allowed action, because then, given the sensitivity of the public to the action of any police, whether the judiciary can compromise the whole of this initiative and then, of course, it is now as the court may be the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice, so it will be here the responsibility of the police minister, or its first associates, that these measures absolutely must not be exceeded because it requires a high degree of professionality and a high degree of commitment to what is in the right sense of the word police work. The third thing I would like to say here concerns, of course, the issues of unpleasant experiences that we have had with regard to racial, religious and international impatience that has rarely moved in some completely unfavourable forms of stadium such as this case with a player Dinah allegedly in Split, I did not look at it, but based on what I could hear was a dark road of Brazilian origin to a player who had a kind of discomfort that his colleagues and colleagues from the opposing team should have responded to. It's something that can't be allowed, no civilized country. And in that sense, it's extremely important that we both work with club administrations and fans. That they manifest and send messages to those who may not yet have been able to experience such a thing as the awkwardness of a turning out that is borderline with racism and that experience simply needs to be gained. This experience, of course, cannot be obtained only by police measures, but it can be obtained by these measures that I have said. So, club administrations, players themselves and especially people who run fans, or who are responsible for the behavior of the most active and organized fan groups in this regard. Someone said yesterday that we should end games in such cases. It should, of course, be to the extent that it is possible then to control what can follow, but my opinion is that it should act preventively. It is my opinion that it should be done before such things happen, and it is my opinion that the police and especially certain segments of the police can do much more in this regard before and especially can be done by a sensitised civilised public who will send a message to their reactions that such things cannot be tolerated. But it's good that it's legal. It is good not to come players from other countries who can give us their messages regardless of how and how they manifest hurt and cause riots at games or cause general disdain in society itself. And finally allow me, Mr. Secretary of State, that part of the provision regarding the privacy of fans themselves who come as ticket buyers for games in which the distributor or agency is asked for personal information. I am not sure, Mr. Secretary of State, regardless of your desire to strengthen as much security as possible, that this is something that is in accordance with the Constitution or the law and which does not conflict with the fact that, regardless of the measures that must be taken by our citizens, our situation is not such that such measures could be taken to include privacy and private identity in the purchase of tickets for individual games. I'm afraid it will then be understood exactly as I wanted it not to be understood when I spoke at the beginning and that this is not a law against fans, but that this is a law against violence that individual groups are causing in sports competitions. And so I invite you on behalf of the club to look at these provisions, to consult with the lawyers and if possible to revise them or find some other mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57908	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57909	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! We will support this bill in our first reading, but we are not sure that we will get the results the government has come up with with this bill. We're not sure about that at all, and I'll try to explain why. When I read the bill, I asked myself why there are no fences in Europe in football stadiums around the playground. What's different about us in Europe, and I saw it again last night when I saw our team in Switzerland. According to the commentator's report, there were 10, 12 thousand viewers, but in the stadium I didn't see those fences five meters high, heavy iron bars, I didn't even see a lot of Swiss gendarmes around the stadium either before or after the football game. They played ours, they won, they did their best, our viewers were in the stadium and they didn't need fences. When we listen to the news or read the newspaper ahead of some major sports events, the games of two clubs start like this: "For tomorrow's game 486 directors and 684 police officers are hired." Then comes the news of who's coach, who's gonna play, who's sick, who's got a broken leg, who's not on the team. But always the first news of how many officers and officers are hired to play a football game, or handball or basketball but mostly football. So who in Europe has made the order not to have problems like this and to be ashamed in front of the whole world. Do we remember Heisel? What they did after Heisel so that the fences could take down and play domestic and international games. Was it just the police and the state's repression that had to work to make order? Did it really take just 600 or a thousand 500 cops to go to stadiums for a year, two, three, to say Italian and English fans after Heisel? I'm sure you don't, actually I know you don't. What's with the organizers, the clubs, the hardest punishment? The police at the stadium? Less editors. Court? The police are free, the directors have to pay, so they're good with more cops. Court, lawsuits, fines? I have not heard that no club has been punished, sanctioned by judicial authorities because it has failed to apply mandatory provisions under this or that amended law. The money, the penalty of ten thousand kuna, 20 thousand kuna? Come on, please. You know who they should be afraid of? Your alliances. The ones on behalf and within which the competition takes place. And now we have the law again that the police must have more powers, so more police work, that the facilities will have to have more trained or censored guards, threaten prisons and fines. I'm telling you, unfortunately it won't be anything. Or very little. But I don't mean to criticize the legislators of this law. Because they, out of their fields of power, offered what they believe we should give them as Parliament so as not to be co-censors of what is happening. But what about clubs and alliances? Two weeks ago, I read the news that UEFA imposed a fine on a Turkish football club for far less riots and excesses than we had in Croatia in our stadiums for the past month that 6 months should not play closer than 500km from the border of the country from which the club is 500km from the least distant resorts. So how come our football clubs are afraid of UEFA but are not afraid of the Football Federation of Croatia? Why are there no torches in Croatia and riots at international games? Because UEFA won't give a fine of 5,000 kuna or one game of non-playing in its stadium. Because UEFA doesn't need the help of the police or Parliament to make order and say, "You can participate in our competitions under these rules." When you first exceed it, the punishment will be terrible. With fines that start with 200,000 Swiss francs and so on. But it's the most severe punishment when he can't play in his stadium, on his playground, in his gym. When they get suspended, players who are instigated by violence and disorder. When suspension and banning club management, coaches or members of the management of those involved, encouraged or did not prevent any such experience from happening. And she doesn't punish fans. But he's punishing a sports subject, a club that led to it. He didn't do something the way he was supposed to. Why don't you need fences at your fellow Francis basketball games in the halls? Try to imagine that in the halls where the game is played, where the Cibona game must be set up. Why wouldn't a handball need fences like we need on Maxim or on Man? For everything that happens in our sports in football for me is the Football Federation and Mr. Markovic. In the Handball Handball Union and Mr. Raven, or because he doesn't have it. In tennis for everything he deserved or guilty of... and no one else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because if the alliances had done their part of the job and made their own rules binding their members of the Alliance on how to organise behavior, and behind that sanctioned clubs that don't do it, we shouldn't be discussing it at all today or dealing with it. And they laugh at us and the police how much worry we lay on the safety of their pollen on the burden of taxpayers' expense they collect money and laugh at us. And they're guys, they're appreciated, and I don't know what they're not, but we have to take care of how you look at these people in the workplace because it's their job where they make money to make sure they choose to play a game, earn premiums and wages, and we all have to pay there. We're proud of our football and the team then we went to Malta. We're proud of our skiers and skiers then we went to Pohorje. We're proud of our water polo players then we're in Portorož if I'm not mistaken or... Tirana, Tirana. [[The intruders don't understand.]] So why do we need it? Who did we embarrass back there? They, uh, excuse me, who'd they embarrass? Those players over there? No, I don't. The reputation of the state. All of us. All of us. And then they do the same thing to us at home. And now let's set up cameras in stadiums, in halls, swimming pools, athletic trails. And then what? Will someone please convince me that it's an accident that 100 torches in the stadium are waiting for fans? Tolls, rods, boxers. How come one cheerleading group at that same game didn't sneak through one torch and the other set off 100 torches? Can one of those organizers explain that to me? And it's not the police who are looking at them. It's the monks. Their editors who paid them like they paid for it. Well, it's what clubs do. Clubs respond to such a great deal of cooperation with fan groups because they have been blackmailed, blackmailed into doing other kinds of problems and tolerate them. They even participate and help them bring torches, rods, joints, and anything else they mess with. And for what's at football for me it's the Football Federation's fault. So long as the club that happens doesn't suspend it from the next competition and then there won't be any more. And the whole nation won't have to worry about whether the kids who went to the football game will stay alive, all of them, and come home. Whether 10, 15 tram cars and only 100 cars will be broken in Zagreb. We have a new sport law behind this point, and what now? Now what? I guess we've got to form new special police departments before, so these same sports clubs can keep doing it. The protective measures proposed by the legislators and their rigorous leadership that simply they, I must not say now what I think of them as doing it, cannot even approach sports sites. They have nothing to look for there. But not on the moon, two, three, not on the 5. For three years. And when that punishment, that protective measure breaks, it's three years in prison. That was after "Hessela" in Great Britain. The first time he broke it, he went to jail for three years. Do not allow them to approach any other damage they do to the state, to the citizens and to anything else. But the M.O.P. isn't in charge of making order for sports alliances. And that's why I'm not criticizing you because you couldn't suggest it, but I hope that the one who wrote the Sport Act remembered that unfortunately sport has this dimension, too, so he made a commitment and alliances that if he didn't sanction it then I suggest that the state sanction the use of that stadium, that object, a ban on that club that didn't do it to compete at that facility and in that competition rank. If our UEFA or other European and sports alliances can't learn how to do this, our alliances. By the way, where did they get the money? Who's funding them? How much from the State budget money goes for them? What they suggested to us and the police to deal with this problem that we have. Which is the contribution of all these alliances to this being cleared up. If you don't clubs that alliance. And everyone stays in office, everyone represents Croatia's interests in the world, but in this please, they have nothing to do with it. And just two things about specific provisions. My colleague Pupovac warned about personal data. It's not buying a water polo ticket or basketball buying weapons or poison, so we really need to give personal information. And one more thing, they warned me that a good law-reading can and, therefore, the play of words is, the secretary of state. The man who brings the torch into the field, the other one burns it, the third one holds it, and the fourth one throws it on the playground. Which of them will be punished under this proposed law? What do you think? ... That's not true. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Only the one who brought it and set it on fire. The one holding her and throwing her away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57910	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Franjo Arabovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57911	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd like to correct just one quote where Mr. Lesar said he would, so he even mentioned the Football Federation and Mr. Markovic. Well, alliances have nothing to do with the competition. The Association of First Leagues runs the First Croatian League and it is responsible for everything, both for the League and for what is happening in stadiums. The president of the alliance and the handball and basketball and football, they only run the alliance. So, the association runs the League and it sets out the rules of conduct and how to get the League through the end, when to break up. And she's punishing. We now have an example of Split. Heiduk has been punished immediately at 24 hours. ... No, no, one game, but fined cash. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And that's what the First League Association is doing to run that competition. And as far as I'm concerned, you were talking about UEFA. The UEFA three days before each match comes into the country and into town and conducts talks with everyone in town, county, from municipalities, police, commissioners, everyone and lead to perfection. And they say, we did everything, the police did everything. Who's to blame? Organiser, Hajduk, Dinamo, Cibona. It's your fault. So the problem is, it's not the law we're dealing with, it's how we're gonna apply it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57912	Thank you. Here, State Secretary Mr. Ivica Buconjic has now answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57913	Thank you very much. I will intervene perhaps strangely over the fact that I am truly satisfied with all the discussions and it is obvious that all the representatives who participated in the debates today are interested in improving the situation in sports competitions. It's really good to create a social climate that needs to be fixed. And I think that we're all together and on the same track that we're thinking alike, and that's the only reason why I'd like to give clarifications about some things that may not be read out of this law, or maybe they're not known because other measures and other laws haven't been presented yet, regulations that should regulate this matter. One of the key things that's going through here is that there's about a situation that's about to be made by clubs and the responsibility of the police. And very often it's really that kind of situation. Whenever a riot occurs in sports competitions, it is often called clubs, or organizers, and regular and always police. By changing this law, we want to change this situation to be responsible for competition and for riots in competitions, i.e. to fall on burdens and organisers, those involved in this activity and who make some less, some more, and a certain profit. One of the key things in all this will certainly be the new Sport Act, because the current state of play under the Sport Act makes it very difficult to define the responsibilities of police, sports clubs, sports alliances and other actors of these events. Under the current Sport Act, clubs are citizens' associations, nonprofits. And that's why a situation like this can happen to make a living as a club, and the responsibility of the police. According to the new Sport Act, clubs will be defined as stock companies where the owner will be known, where responsibility will be known and then will certainly be much easier to implement and implement these measures that we have foreseen for the organizers of sport competitions. You know very well that most sports clubs are in a situation of practical bankruptcy because of the failure to comply with the strong obligations towards the state, the debt of taxes, the debt of some other obligations to, above all, the state and could be subject to bankruptcy. However, it is also this law, and especially the Sport Act, that wants to define different relations in sport that you knew exactly what is whose responsibility, which is whose task and in all this I am talking first of all about the police which is the task and responsibility of the police. Namely, what the police do when they engage in the game, as Mr. Lesar said, somewhere and up to a thousand police officers at a football game in Split is not our wish because we have to hire an additional 500, 600 police officers from other police administrations because we have to pay for the transportation of these police officers, for what we have to pay overtime and all the other rights that these employees exercise. And based on that, the M.O.P. really has a lot of expenses. We don't do it because we want to do it, we do it because we want to ensure first of all that the game passes in a peaceful, fair, sports environment. So there's no mess and real fans can really watch sports competitions and games in peace. And I think that the definitive intensity of this law is what Mr. Pupovac said, not to increase the repression, but above all to increase the responsibility of the organizer of the competition, to increase the responsibility of the law enforcement officer, especially the Predictive, to increase their sentences, and all in order to ensure that the peaceful, real, civilized and cultural fans who pay the ticket for that ticket can peacefully, safely and with dignity follow the sports competition, participate in it, calmly come to the facility, calmly follow the game and calmly and safely return from that sports competition. And absolutely this law on the trail of what most MPs have said here means to ensure the safety of true fans, to sanction and move away from sports competitions, hooligans who often repeat crimes or violations, question the safety of real sports fans. And that relations, rights and obligations of people involved in sports are finally defined, that it is not always the responsibility of the police alone, that only the police have great and enormous costs of high-risk matches, but that all those involved in taking over and their part of the burden, assume their share of responsibility and costs, because it is the only right way and the way to ensure in our sports competitions the same atmosphere as the government in Switzerland, Germany and England that the games are followed without protective fences, that there are no torches, that there are no interruptions, that there are no savages.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57914	Thank you very much. It's up to club IDS and Mr. Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57915	Honorable Vice President, esteemed Secretary of State, esteemed Mr. Representatives. Here on Sunday, many of us were on February 26th at the closing of the Winter Olympics in Turin, we saw when a man ran from the theater to the pay phone and ripped off one of the microphones to the one who spoke and it looked amazing. That at the most preserved games so far or one of the most preserved games so far, something similar can happen. So this kind of mess doesn't just happen to us, it happens to others, and it's absolutely necessary to react, and that's where we probably all agree that we're sitting in this House. We see from this report that was delivered to us by the M.O.P. or by the bill promoter, that the violence from the stadium is increasingly moving to the streets. It's even logical to be kind of cynical, because in the stadium very rarely, especially football in us you have something to see and then a clear party is moving to the streets. It is clear that no one can support it and it is clear that it is good for my God to prevent it. What's also interesting about these materials is that all the younger and younger people are causing riots. It's absolutely inadmissible and it's clear that it's worth reacting to. The question, however, is just how. I claim that our existing law that has been in force so far has not been such a bad law. He's in some way some combination of fines, then banned the presence of matches and clear criminal charges. Now, if we remove these thugs, and they need to be removed, then again, we can ask ourselves who will come to watch football games where, on average, in all of Croatia by game, I don't know those who follow can say exactly, there are certainly no more than two thousand viewers. So I've been talking about thugs all along, Mr. Arabovic warned me that it was hooligans, not fans, and I couldn't agree more. All clubs especially football, as the secretary of state said just before, are bankrupt and this new sport law de facto is a modus how to keep these clubs in a way in life. We are aware that through these clubs money is being laundered largely in us, clearly it is not as sophisticated as in one Italy, because nobody here can convince me to say one spending of 5, 10, 15 or 25 million euros for a player who pays with that money in Milan their club director is not a sort of money laundering. But now that's less important, that's more like the matter we're going to discuss tomorrow. In us what is also a problem, the only financialists of clubs, so to speak, become Croatian monopolies on the one hand and public companies HT, INA, Croatian Forests, Croatia Insurance and so on. That I'd like to know what's going to happen, for example. one Croatian forest to advertise in football stadiums, where it simply leads. But let me get back to the point now. How do you solve all this mess? In my court, it's only fines. If, for example, 27 buses or 21 trams were destroyed in Zagreb from 2003 to 2005, did one of these young men compensate the city or their company, Zeet, as it is already called, mean damage because of this hooligan act? I'm afraid not. If their parents were forced to do part of that damage, maybe things in this country would change. Come to the stadium, yell, yell, cheer, do whatever you want, but don't break it. Finally, it should be as everyone says, to become places of fun, relaxation, security, not fear and disorder. Is this law going to help? The law as a law I doubt. If we prescribe an obligation to say damaged companies must be compensated before insurance companies can compensate, settle or initiate a settlement procedure from the perpetrators, we may achieve something. We have, here in this annex we have also received the Law of Responsibility for the damage caused by terrorism, public demonstrations as it is already called, for which the state clearly answers. It is logical that if someone breaks your car because you accidentally found yourself with your son or daughter or children in the Maximir zoo that day, and there was a game across the street, let the state pay you back or provide you with damage when you are unable to provide you with one normal communication, transportation and so on. In this particular case, it is not an individual who is obliged to sue someone out there who is a hooligan but will settle down from the state. But if these public carriers were to be spoken of, ZET, Croatian railways etc. It forced them to apply for compensation from individuals, and they know who did it, maybe things in this country would change. In 2003, it is good to impose standards to defend itself, specifically punish inappropriate cheerleading, etc. Like, I don't know what kind of basics in Split recently. And there it seems to me Mr. Pupovac is right, he finally fenced himself, but in such situations when such cheerleading occurs where someone is insulted by racial, religious, etc. Belongs, maybe the judges should really break up the games. But it has never clearly happened, as it has never happened that someone who comes to the stadium or to some concert with a letter "U" penitentiary, and I'm afraid neither will after the prime minister says that for him the hat with the letter "U" and the Partizan cap is one and the same. That's amazing, that's an incredible comparison, but what do we do, that's right. Article 14, gentlemen, it is literally said that the person who has been given a protective, i.e. a security measure prohibiting the presence of certain sports competitions or precautionary measures is required to enter a competent police station no later than 2 hours before the start of a certain sports competition, according to the place of residence, to report to an on-call police officer and to inform him of the address at which he will be in the course of a particular sports competition, as well as during his departure from the police station until 2 hours after the end of that competition, etc., etc. I'm afraid, Your Honors Secretary of State, Your Honor, gentlemen of the Parliament, that this is simply inconclusive. In my court, it would be far better if instead of that young man or that girl to contact the parents of the police station, he took the responsibility of making his child, namely, not him to answer there but by phone or otherwise. That his child will not do so because he must in some way guarantee or care for that child. Clearly, for older people, I don't know, 21 years old, there's nothing to report on a parent, but if someone lives in a joint household, maybe that parent could be in some way in solidarity in such cases where he is obliged to get or his child to report for the damage that that child has done. I don't know, if we really did, I'd say once again, parents would call, if the police were to inform the parents maybe in some way and prevent some of that violence from happening in our stadiums. I guess that kid, it doesn't matter if he's 17, 18 or 21 years old, starts thinking about what, how, how he's gonna communicate the next day inside that family. And especially if someone were to be charged the day after tomorrow for the damage that that child had done to the state, any private person. Clearly, the easiest responsibility for violence is to bring to Parliament, to government, to police, to courts, to cities, to all but parents. That's not how it works. I know, it's easy to tell us now who have little children, but that responsibility of family, family, family, parents, I'd say we should extend to those cases higher than the family itself. Europe was a witness, all of this, and it was mentioned by horrible violence. Let's remember these games at Heinsol, between Liverpool and Juventus. 30 dead, I don't know right now. But they sort of solved it. They managed to remove the fences from the stadium, their stadiums became arenas in the right sense of the word where people in suits, with ties, as MPs in the Parliament come to the games. I don't have a tie, but here, let's say that one way. Sometimes people come to these stadiums more politely, more decently dressed than to Parliament. Clearly, there's a lot of money out there, and it's clear that outside clubs don't live on the public side but live on private companies, which is not the case with us. I agree that amateur sports can't go on the market. He's being followed by the city, the state, I don't know. It is clear that, in some ways, a top-notch sport can't take over without money and that clearly and it needs to be taken over. And you don't mind that the state, the city, etc., invests money if it brings some results. But in our country, where it is most invested it is in football, clearly professional results are what they are even though it should be recognised that this country with 4 and a half million inhabitants and can't God know what to expect even though it is the third place in France that it has achieved in its own time, it will probably agree with me and Franjo Arabovic, the biggest success of sports in Croatia. Valuable is certainly success and yesterday's victory of the Croatian team over Argentina 3:2. So, for the end, I support this law. There's something I can do, but I assure you, without a parent being responsible for that child, that he's responsible for that child, and even materially, I don't think bread will be. What everyone was also talking about is personal data, maybe it's questionable, but we have to admit, and I wouldn't go to such a solution, let's say now for the World Football Championship Germans, if I'm not mistaken, are looking for personal data for those who come to those tickets for these games. It's all about an interesting legislative proposal, but if we don't put an emphasis on the parent at this point, it's hardly gonna bring any results.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57916	Thank you very much. Also, I'd like to inform you that it's past 10 minutes in 18 and 24. We also have two corrections. First Mr. Representative Frano Arabovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57917	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. And I'd like to correct just one quote. Mr. Cain said big money laundering was being done in sports, so he listed some 15.20m-euro contracts, $20m, it doesn't matter. No, it's nowhere in Europe because these players who buy for that money, they pay for themselves through their uniforms, ads and stuff. So there's no money laundering. There's a lot more money laundering in other things than sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57918	Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Ivo Loncar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57919	Well, colleague Cain as usual, and I can't now, for the sake of this House's dignity, say, use that word. He says the president of the Croatian government said yesterday that he doesn't care about the hat with the letter "U" or "Partisan cap". Look at the phonogram, I'm not the Prime Minister's attorney, but for the sake of the truth and for the dignity of this House, the Prime Minister didn't say that. And my colleague Cain, we're more tired than any of your provocations. You're always talking about some kind of Partisanism and some antifascism that has absolutely nothing to do with common sense. Understand, you and everyone in this House and beyond this House. Partisan was the patriotism and patriotism we must be proud of. But the Partisans also had criminals who could not remember civilization. And, please, please, you're going to want to do something like that. A five-point star is a symbol of freedom, but a red star is a symbol of evil. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57920	Let's not spread the debate to... tom. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57921	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the prevention of riots in sports competitions aims to have a more effective impact on the prevention of illegal behaviour and disorder in sport competitions as well as the application of, in fact, change, pardon, behaviour of individuals. One word prevents unacceptable and harmful behavior, data on illegal behaviour in sports competitions that have been systematically monitored since mid-2003 since we have regulated this matter point to the importance and size of the problem we are facing. Structure of infringements, the number of riots in certain sports competitions, the age of participants, requirements and misdemeanor sanctions related to illegal behaviour in sport competitions and experience in connection with this as well as the inability to implement i.e. The implementation of safeguard measures is a guidance that the Government has followed through these amendments and additions to this Act and the HDZ Club fully supports them. This Law applies also to offenders in sports competitions and are of particular importance newspapers sanctioned by individuals in the process of reporting to the police, their supervision immediately before, during the shortly after the sport competition. It is also of great importance to amend and supplement laws relating to fines that have been inadequately small so far. The aim of these changes is not to repress, but above all to try to change the behavior of individuals who are fortunately a small number, but their incidents are primarily harmful to them, theirs under quotes "clubs", sport and society in general. The HDZ Club also supports those provisions of this Act which emphasise responsibility for the organizers of sports competitions and commits them to taking all necessary measures to prevent riots and violence. Their responsibility may be the greatest. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. There is a sports competition organiser who is required to act on the order of the police to take security measures in the process of preparing, organising and maintaining a sports competition. At the request of the competent police authority, the organiser of the sport competition is also obliged to increase the number of directors when the body assesses that the planned number of directors does not guarantee safety in the sport competition. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Disturbs in Sports Competitions concerns all of us, our security, our comforts, sports and society as a whole. We believe that this proposal, as well as the proposal of the Sport Act, will contribute to the "port for all" code. Dear colleagues and colleagues live sports and enjoy it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57922	Thank you very much. And the HSS club, Mr. Agent Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57923	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Disturbs in Sports Competitions is not only a good reason for us to talk seriously here today, and thus here in the first reading we show all that seriousness, but we give that necessary infrastructure without which neither this law nor any other law will bring about the prevention of riots in our sport competitions. Namely, all these measures that are good, which are understandable, which can produce results, all of this repressive apparatus that we used in the articles to combat the riots, to rightly determine fans from non-cheers, to make sure that those who create riots in sports competitions clearly locate them, regulate them legally, and thus create fully what we want, which is that Croatian sport also has Croatian fans and that they simply have to be at the same level of responsibility where today and Croatian sport is. Unfortunately, what we will all agree on, although we are in the name of clubs, I think it is in due course to support these amendments and the additions of the law, but I would say that without one systematic approach to this problem, which is not only a normative character, which is not only a character of sanctioning and repressive measures, but it should and must contain a more complete view of the situation in which we find ourselves and a debate on whether what happens in sports competitions is just a final manifestation of something that is wrongly set in its content. It would be wrong to try at this final event that happens almost explicitly and always in our stadiums to say that by suppressing and that often mentioning the handfuls solves the problem of sports life in Croatia. I don't think that's true. Long ago, and they all mentioned the same thing by speaking of English fans, the problems they were faced with, and always at the end of the end of the end of the story that there is no more of it, no more fences between players and fans, no more pictures where there are no more pictures in the front rows of the whole family, means generational viewing, means that there is one distinct security of watching, one participation in that pleasure of sports watching, but also sports playing on the other side, but we forget that England was doing one study that showed that only in six years could be cured, that is, to bring the situation to the same way it is today. We need to start today with measures from preschool to behave differently, to have one other fund of education, education, attitude towards sport imposed on preschool education, and of course to teach it to all other educational systems that follow the child until the moment it becomes fully legally responsible and mandatory. Therefore, I think that the whole society through a whole series of instruments available to this society should act as a support to this Law, as a support that it is truly the only blade that will sanction those who make a mistake in the heat of something because it cannot not only this Law but not a single law that has sanctions in it can solve the problem. He can resuscitate the blade of it. The problem should be solved by sports workers, sports competition clubs, society as a whole and education infrastructure of this society. Of course, the family is also a very important and inevitable cell that needs to make its contribution primarily through family education. And all together must be networked into something that, for some time in five, six or ten years, will lead to this final manifestation of young people not being characterized in the way that it is popular today by gentlemen. Don't ignore that word. It's popular today to drink ten beers, get dressed, it's popular today to cause unrest and if you want to be brought in by the police. That's popular. It's part of some of me and us's unacceptable condition. But like someone popular to try marijuana, it's so popular today. These are negative tendencies that need to be contained but not exclusively by sanctions and police measures. We must combat this through clear debates, clear positions by creating a system that will be generations that are more resistant to these challenges than these today, more resistant than preschool education, as I said to student benches. Therefore, it is not acceptable for a country that has such results in relation to its population that even those countries that have 200-300 million cannot steam us. It's not acceptable for us to be afraid of our fans, because again, without those fans, they wouldn't even be the results in sports as they are. Therefore, it is one very connected and would be very irresponsible so it is not even in the interest of sport to classify these and those. I think the problem is too serious. These measures have come in handy. I believe they can be further strengthened. I would suggest to the promoter that Article 10 also means that if the police estimate that the organiser of the sport competition has not taken the measures set out in Article 5 of this law and they say they should do their utmost to prohibit the maintenance of the sport competition. I think it should be further elaborated because of course I agree, the organizer is the one who needs to be familiar, should make a risk assessment of what's going on, who's coming and he should be the one who should absolutely be more effective than the police. Only in that variant can the police be so-called. an observer who will assess at a given time the basis of this article in one way or another. Therefore, I think that, until the second reading, not only can the repressivity of this law be strengthened but certain other elements and obligations of the organisers, which are borne by those who do not speak, have income today in our sport, and we will hear that in the debate of the Sport Act. Almost no one has a so-called. positive income, everyone's got negative incomes. The whole sport is down, the only results are positive. We're a phenomenon after that. It's not just fans, but you see plus in the results and minus in the business activity that creates that result. So we're a specific person and it means we're extremely big talents. It means we have such talent that goes beyond all limits. And now, it is necessary and important that all together a single system that this society needs to develop be put on how we put it in sport as a result to put it into function so that those who look at these results and watch these players also enjoy all together. And I think it's a fundamental and crucial task not only of this bill but of society, and we are representatives of the people, so we have to stand up for it. I, too, as a former athlete, unfortunately not currently advocate, the vice president says and be, that would be nice, but then I would have to find some kind of sport that would be acceptable at this point. But in any case, we are all in some way either young or today, or we will participate in one way or another in sports and sports events, and that is why we must be as responsible as possible. And the HSS Club will join all those who expect this bill to succeed in giving a sign of solving the burning problem in terms of preventing riots in sports competitions and we will support everything that in the second reading is estimated to be useful to change this situation for the better.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57924	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. She is the first female representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57925	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Here, it's been almost two years since the entry into force of the first law that first wanted to regulate this matter. And I personally support these changes that are on the verge of tightening the repression. However, I immediately have one small remark about not assessing the situation but about the necessary means to implement this law. Here, the proponent argues, the government argues that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional resources in the state budget. However, that is not the case, or not quite the case. Therefore, new powers, new measures are being given, measures are being extended, particularly safeguards and security measures imposed by the criminal courts and carried out by the police and their control, because these persons are obliged to report to the police during a certain period of time or time when the games take place, especially if the security measure or the protection of the measures prohibiting these matches. So these are new jobs for the judges of the criminal courts, a new amount of work, and that's something that we have long ago not only for this mandate but also for the formerly permanent so the representatives of the judicial authority draw attention to. Few of the draft laws in the House come that there is neither protection nor criminal provisions. Of course, as a guarantee that the law will be respected, which is perfectly fine. But therefore, it is a constant expansion of the volume of affairs and in itself are burdened with misdemeanor courts. Therefore, additional resources in terms of or teams which are now well and carried out, however, in terms of this and material support and some overtime hours which, in any case, judges for offences and precisely because of the nature and nature of the business which they are subject to, should be taken into account in the scope of the action. If not, perhaps only when this law is passed, but certainly when the budget is rebalanced, when this Law comes safely and with another reading comes into effect. However, we need to look back a little not only on this repressive but also on prevention. Of course, we are often inspired by British experience. Let's just remember back a few years of what was going on in their stadiums and how they, just once with a violent repression, had primarily contained violence. However, the violence of young people and the violence of young fans did not generally stop young people. That may be what the Great Britain hides as a snake's feet, but there's an explosion of youthful crime going on. So what we should also be doing is making sure that, by suppressing the adequate repressive system, we do not forget the prevention. But of course it's not just the police. It's a government job, but it's also a job for all segments of government. I especially think it's about this subject here because here, always like these extreme fans, like those cheerleading subcultures, they show up young. So here it seems to me that the role of the relevant ministry, education, culture, sports that are unfortunately not there, there are few or almost inadequate programs. There are very few of them, as far as the youth program is concerned. How to come up with a relationship with young people is something we often talk about, we all agree on that, but very little progress has been made in this. And with that in connection here, it was justly apostrophealed and the very system of education itself. He's still so dramaticly conservative with us and locked up that the absolutely neglected educational component. Our young people are simply not taught that conflicts are not solved by violence. Although someone else might think that's who didn't fight at school, that's something that's normal. It's not normal because later it escalates and takes different and harder forms. So what our education system is missing is exactly that. A culture of non-violence and a democratic way of resolving conflict and conflict. Society is constantly conflicting and what is narrowly interesting and it is conflicting. But conflicts need to be taught them, that's something we're not born to be taught. How many in the family are they talking about? Neither can family take part in this, or full responsibility. Of course, it's primarily responsibility and education system. And go back to maybe specifically here and on this subject who's coming to the games today? This is where my colleague Cain set up a strange debate. He says, "If we eliminate them like that, then who's going to come to the game?" Well, then those who would like to come, who are precisely because of this aggressive minority, these hooligans aren't coming to the games. My parents would come with kids. Today they're afraid of it. It's just become dangerous places. How, in fact, do these violent behaviors besides this bill that introduces more repressive measures that I say and repeat, but how do these violent behaviors, if not completely suppress how do they become aware of the least possible measure and how to marginalize them? Somehow today, the opinion is still valid if, in these groupings that are very desirable but their behaviour is not desirable, although they should not be generalised and not all are equal, and fans also, in public, have reported that they are all equated, that they have not been communicated, and that this is how some of the individuals are seen and the true state of things. So how to marginalise them in society and how to prevent this violent behavior that is dominant today in sports competitions especially certain species from spreading to other segments of society? I think it would just be one, one of our common tasks, one of this kind of action between individual cabinets in the government so that we could and must overcome these causes of this youthful violence. But unfortunately, during the entire past period, it was almost fostered by us. Let's just remember in the former state, and then when the former state fell apart, how the attacks were considered heroic even to the former lawkeepers. Today it is with equal passion if not more and it is something that worries the conflict between the north and the south of its own state is happening. Almost Until Extermination Cheerleading groups. [[The intruders don't understand.]] It's not like that. Don't take it easy on a situation like that. Which is so, and in Split and Zagreb it is then a special relationship. And I'm saying it's one thing, it's one learned behavior, and I think it's pretty much what you should think about. So this one parole that's left, "Let's cause riots anytime and anywhere" has to be contained. In this way I think we've set these repressive elements well, but the question is, here we have the fact that how many procedures have been initiated, how many measures have been put in place? How many fines? We've got the data. How much is it, even the prison sentences are highlighted, but what seems more important to me is what are the obstacles? Some, some of the objections of the infringement courts themselves have been removed here but what is very important we have not given this one material support that will be necessary to the courts in breach so that they can make sure that all requests, or all requests, are fully applied to this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57926	Thank you very much. It's been nice listening, if I may say so. Here we go, Mr. Miroslav Korenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57927	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. I have to say that I also support the adoption of this law, but I'm going to say a few things that may not be exactly in line with my support of amendments and additions to this law. My personal opinion is that the current law has been high enough to prevent violence at our sports facilities. However, unprincipled and often selective law enforcement, either by the police, and even more by the organisers, has led us to have violence far more than we should have. However, in this introductory part where we have both the reasons and the reasons for the adoption of amendments to this law, I must say that I am fragrant with some information that shows how ineffective our system is. If you look at it, we don't have any single information as to how much punishment it is to pay for the organizers of sports competitions that they haven't carried out properly. I'm a member of a sports society that organizes a competition. And I guarantee you, if you check the stadiums and the organization does what needs to be done, you can't even put a needle in the stadium. And without the help of the clubs, I take it responsibly. There won't be no pyrotechnics or firecrackers or anything in the stadiums. However, this particular selective approach to domestic fans is most often mild. According to the guests, it's a little tighter and a little more solid that we have a lot of wildness, alcohol, and drugs in the stadium. For me, worrying is the fact that only 55.27% of the misdemeanor proceedings were brought to an end. It shows all the impotence and ineffectiveness of this system. It is likely that the most frequent guest fans or locals are if they are extremely extreme taken by misdemeanors. However, in Article 33 of the existing law, we also have the possibility that violations of a judge be kept on the watch at high-risk games. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Secretary of State, if you have this information to tell us how many clubs, or organisers, in cooperation with the police, have brought a criminal judge to the stadium and immediately punished those who made the pigs? The fact is, it's not a law-adapted law, and it gave the possibility, the right one, the real one, that the criminal judge would actually be in the stadium. Unfortunately, though, all our clubs and organizers talk and sell fog. If they really care about the order in the stadium, then the judges will be at our stadiums when we have high-risk games. Unfortunately it's just not made and it's not like that. So we don't have any data either, and here I think this argument is incomplete and ineffective, let's also see for the items where the organizers are punished for entering pyrotechnics for example. We have this last case from Split. I don't think we should generalise and talk only about Split. He may be synonym at this hour for something that happened, but I guarantee you, without the responsibility of the pyrotechnics club could not be found at the stadium. How many times is that very touching, and then there's our journalists with lots of epithets, the touchiness is talking about the anniversary club, the anniversary of that one, and the fans have torches and everything? How can they not think to do such a thing abroad? I have to say, I've been to 10 states in sports competitions, and I've been to that famous Great Britain in Birmingham. It's fascinating to come to a stadium where entire families come. There's no fence. But most importantly, and that's my point of view, there's no police in the stadium. The police with a good organization are no place in the stadium. In the driveways of the stadium, around that yes. Because let's not forget, the taxpayers of this state are paying the police. Of course the clubs are trying, because it's cheaper for them to have as few directors and directors as possible. And that's why I support the trend in this law that organizers are responsible for everything they don't do right. But we're going in a row. I also have a few concrete objections to the text of the law itself, and I don't think there's any reason why he won't be fixed until the second round. I personally think and suggest that Mr. Secretary of State be prohibited from pouring alcohol within a mile or two around sports facilities. It's not enough just in the stadium. Although even now unprincipled and now in our sports facilities, alcohol is being poured during the games. But I'm sorry, if we want to take something from abroad that's good, we don't need to learn too much. For example, in Great Britain, two miles from the stadium is forbidden to me 3 hours before and 2 hours after the game of drinking alcohol. In doing so, I would also like to hear the information as much as our inspection service at that time, so the State Inspectorate is going and controlling how many drinks are being poured to minors. It's a special story. So my proposal means, once again, I stress, a ban on drinking within a mile, two. I think it can get good results. It's another thing. When it comes to the identity of people who buy tickets. And in our stadiums and our sports facilities, you don't usually have numbered seats. According to this video, you can recognize the face, but if the ticket to the name and last name is in that and that place, I can give my ticket to someone else, he'll come to the game to make a pig's game and we'll move on. The other thing is, it seems to me our Criminal Code, but also all the laws in general, allow for the possibility of criminal penalties being replaced, these prisons, the swaps, or the cash swaps. We know what our prisons are in, especially these county ones. We're having trouble putting people in prison where there's too much pressure. People in this property would rather go to jail than pay a fine. What about community service? I personally advocate that the fine is not replaced by prison. If at all possible, but with community service. And for those who commit violations in sports competitions, let's go, and that would be my suggestion, to consider a second reading, that during sports competitions they must also be engaged in community service. But also, in case of repetition, it means in case of relapse, not a year or two, but a lifetime of not coming to sports competitions. That way, part of the people will still watch what they're doing, and for the hard work, I suggest an unconditional prison sentence. Because when he loses his job and everything else, on two or three cases, the rest of them will be careful what they do and how they do. I think that way we'd get more order than we have right now. I also support the measure that offenders must report to the police when they are banned and everything else, but in Article 14(3), not that the police can, but the police must start a search for a person who does not report or has no good justification for why she did not answer. In doing so, I believe that fines are not high enough, especially for legal persons, but also for natural persons. In addition, if a natural person does any material damage, I'm setting up a parallel, especially these infringements are often less than damage done by either a legal person or a natural person to whom damage has to be done in another type of litigation to compensate for damage. I think in this law it would be good if it wasn't contrary to some other law, I don't know enough, but in that case, and immediately pay compensation, for a minor parent with a very fast performance, for a full-time person or unconditional prison or for paying for damages. So I'm proposing here and I'm done with it. So instead of replacing fines for prison punishment, you should go and see the possibility of community service. I think they and... agree that in Croatia prisons are crowded, waiting in order and in this way obviously we will not achieve the desired effects, that the socially beneficial work is performed if it is possible to perform during sports competitions. For some, it might even be a good punishment to end a sports competition of pure stadiums or playgrounds or anything else, and it seems to me that even stronger and even more severe punishment to organizers but also these criminal penalties, because that is the only way in which we will, with education that should go completely safely through the media and everything else, improve the situation. However, media should also play a key role there. Unfortunately, when our fans in Europe made or savaged, then we started to change the laws, that's my impression, and it seems to me that we have quite enough excess in Croatia, unfortunately it is usually done by members of the fan groups of individual clubs. When you heard the Međimurje fans from Chakovec, Belup, Intero made a mess. It's usually done by those who... all over Croatia. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57928	Thank you very much. It's Mrs. Milanka Opačić's turn to lose her right. It is Mr Mirko Filipovic's turn that he also does not have and loses his right. It's Mr. Drago Prgomet who doesn't have it, too, so he loses his right. And it's up to Mrs. Dorotea Pesic Bukovac who also doesn't have one, so I'm asking the Secretary of State to address it finally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57929	Thank you very much. I will really be brief and thanking everyone who participated in the debate because I appreciate all the debates of all the participants constructive, well-intentioned and focused on what we all seek, it is that sports resorts are not a battlefield but that they are really places where families will gather, where they will be safe, where they will follow sport and not think about whether they will return home with their heads broken. I think it is clear from this, from the bill, that by this law what most MPs have said, we want to share the responsibility, or we want to ensure that everyone who participates in sports in any way takes over their share of responsibility. I think this is the first and most basic law intensities because a large part of the obligations and responsibilities are foreseen for new organizers as well. Also, this law provides for much stricter sanctions, perhaps not more stringent yet much stricter for hooligans, for delinquents, for offenders, and especially for relapsers those who are known for frequent and repeated violations of the law and hooligan behaviour. I am also aware and sure that we must also develop sports spirit and culture in all segments of society because this is the basis for which hooliganism and savagery can be most effectively contained in sports competitions, but also for all segments of society, starting with schools where there are problems everywhere. So far, there has been a real situation that sometimes an illusion has been created that the MUP may be exaggerating in the insurance of individual matches, but what I said is not the desire of the MUP because every sport competition insurance with a lot of MPs is enormously costing. This additionally burdens the MIP budget, it gives us great costs, and we want to pass on responsibility to those who benefit from that sport, these are primarily clubs, sponsors and all those who make certain profits through that sport. We also want to ensure through other laws in the design that we participated in to ensure a really good environment for sport development because I think it's clear to everyone if there's violence in sports competitions there won't be audiences, if there's no audiences, there's no incentives, there's no resources, there's no revenue from tickets so it's all very expensive and I think we're all on a good track together. And just to end, let me say that we have taken care of all this and that we have presented this proposal to the representatives of the Croatian Olympic Committee, representatives of all sports alliances and handball, football, water polo, and all representatives of the Croatian Olympic Committee and all sports alliances supported this law. There were perhaps certain dilemmas whether this law would bring additional financial burdens to small clubs that could pose a problem if adopted. I responsibly argue that not because following incidents and violence in sports competitions is the least of them in the competitions of small amateur clubs, most of them in the competitions of large professional clubs, which of these matches, or other sport-related activities, make profits, earn income. So surely this law, i.e. amendments and additions to the law, will not burden small amateur sports clubs and collectives but will primarily provide much more order, much more security, much more culture in sport competitions, and certainly all this is expensive in the interest of the entire Croatian sport. Thank you very much again to everyone who participated and I expect that in the second reading we will adopt some of your remarks and bring really good changes and additions to the laws that will provide much more culture, order and peace in our sport competitions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57930	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Tomorrow at 9.30 p.m., we start with a proposal for a law on sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-02-0.u57931	Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the prevention of riots in sports competitions, first reading. I am voting on the following conclusion: The draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Disruption in Sports Competitions is adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that with 97 votes for and 5 abstentions, the proposed conclusion has been reached. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session. It is on the agenda - Proposal for a law on sport, first reading, P.Z. No. 437. The Proposer of the Law is the Government. It's about first reading. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Family, Youth and Sports and Tourism. Minister of Science, Education and Sports Dragan Primorac will further explain the bill's proposal. Here you go, Minister.
