ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69338	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The law is before you, is the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on State Attorney's Office in first reading. The Law on the State's Attorney's Office adopted the Croatian Assembly in 2001. In the five-year application of this law, it has been shown that certain provisions of the law need to be added to the new legal decisions, and that some existing legal solutions are good but are not clearly established enough and are not sufficiently clear. The Government of the Republic of Croatia therefore proposes the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Attorney's Office with which it seeks to achieve the following in the shortest lines. First, to regulate the jurisdiction of the civil and administrative departments of the municipal, county and state attorneys of the Republic of Croatia. According to the current law, the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia must, in fact, decide by its instructions or decisions which of the State's attorneys is in charge of a particular case, and in particular in cases before commercial courts where the areas of the Commercial Court do not correspond to the areas of county or municipal state attorneys. It is therefore proposed to regulate the jurisdiction of civil and administrative departments and the powers of deputies in those decision-making departments and relations with the State and its bodies representing the State's Attorney General under the law. In this respect, it is proposed that the jurisdiction of a particular State Attorney's Office be determined before the Commercial Court by the registered seat of a legal person. In the case of the actual jurisdiction of the court, jurisdiction shall be followed by the municipal, county or state attorney's office following the jurisdiction of the court. Second, it wants to regulate representation powers in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. According to the current law, state attorneys may, on the basis of special powers, represent units of local self-government and regional self-government where justified in view of the subject matter. As a rule, the State Attorney's Office was given the local and regional self-government unit the general power of representation in all cases. There were often problems because on the one hand one party was a state, on the other hand the units of local or regional self-government, and these interests were the opposite. It is therefore proposed that these amendments that the State Attorney's Office no longer represent regional or local self-government. It remains to be represented on the basis of special powers in civil and administrative matters of legal persons owned or mostly owned by the Republic of Croatia. It also narrows down the provision that the State Attorney's Office gives legal opinions very broadly to all authorities of the state administration. Amendments provide that the State Attorney's Office shall give a legal opinion only when the specific law lays down but clearly remains its authority to give legal opinion on proposals and draft laws and regulations. Next to the changes, it is to improve internal supervision of the work of state lawyers and create a system of quality and objective evaluation of state lawyers in order to improve the work of the state's attorneys and to implement the necessary human resources recovery, create conditions for effective and quality management of businesses, propose to set up a special department in the Croatian State's Attorney's Office to supervise the work, education and monitoring of better legal and other experts in state attorneys. It is clear that without participation in education, you cannot get quality people who will get a high grade and who will then be able to make rapid progress in the State's Attorney's Office. These amendments also introduce the possibility of reviewing the evaluation by a senior state attorney and the evaluation process is particularly designed to propose not only a new range of evaluations but also a whole system of new measurable criteria. These amendments also propose to allow the establishment of a department of international legal assistance and cooperation within the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia to direct international cooperation, provide legal assistance, direct the work of deputies in the bodies of the Council of Europe, regional associations and networks of state lawyers. So this is one inevitable in terms of globalisation, given the movements of international crime and corruption, closer and more effective cooperation, inter-state co-operation and in this part of the State's Attorney's Office is necessary. The more detailed content of the annual reports is also determined that, in the context of the lower state attorneys' report, the level of work followed by specific work by state attorneys. It also sets out the content of the report submitted once a year by the State's Attorney General to the Croatian Parliament. Until now, it has only been determined that this report is to be submitted. The amendments also propose the content of this report because the purpose and purpose of this report to the Government and the Croatian Parliament is to show the general state of criminality and the protection of state property in the Republic of Croatia and to propose measures for more effective treatment in the coming period, based on such reports. Provisions are also introduced that distinguish between the affairs of the State Attorney's Office and the judicial administration, which means that there is a need to distinguish powers in the right of internal supervision from the lower state's attorneys, the chief state's attorney and the Ministry of Justice, as well as to address the issue of judicial oversight. A judicial inspection shall be introduced in order to effectively monitor the state's attorneys in the affairs of the judicial administration and to address the necessary issues in keeping records of staff in the State's attorney's office. A more detailed and improved procedure for the appointment and resolution of state lawyers and deputies has also been developed. In the current law, there are certain doubts about whether municipal state lawyers who must have the conditions for appointment in the county state attorneys may be able to run directly for the post of county state attorneys or must first be appointed deputy county attorneys. The proposal for these amendments is to establish that they can be directly appointed on a higher duty, therefore, and that they are not previously deputies of the senior State Attorney's Office. It is also suggested that before giving an opinion, there is an obligation to talk to candidates, to obtain data on their previous work, and if they agree to carry out security checks. There is also a clear procedure for resolving the state's attorney, a moment of resolution, and so on. So all the misunderstandings that exist in the current law have been solved. Dispute issues have been settled regarding the transfer of tight responsibility and the tight procedure, so the current, current provision on permanent relocation, which is not in this law, but is already being done under the orders of the State's Higher Attorney's Office, is now laid down by law. The firm work now generally which says that the tight work is if the State's Attorney's office is being treated or in what other way is now defined in a way that is said to be, the very general paragraph 6 which is now very general, is determined in a way to say that it is an act that is contrary to the principles of the ethical code. The procedure can also be conducted against a deputy who obstructs arrival at the hearings, a tight procedure and extended deadlines for the launch of a tight procedure to 3 years. These amendments also introduce an obligation to declare the property of a state-of-the-art attorney and his family, i.e. the property card and here it is established 30 days after the entry into service and the transitional provisions have established here is what we missed in the Court Act and we will fix it. Therefore, the transitional provisions have been established that even existing state-level attorneys are obliged to submit their application within 3 months of the adoption of the Application Form Decision. These changes also gave new powers to advisers. Under current law, advisers and senior advisers were not sufficiently used in civil and administrative departments and could not carry out jobs in less complex cases. The proposal for amendments and additions is that advisers can represent the indictment in a shortened procedure and in civil cases represent the debate, in disputes of less value, with a restriction of power. Provisions on the confidentiality of data have also been introduced. Therefore, it was necessary in the very law on the State's Attorney's Office to determine which data were kept secret and whose detection could result in damage to the effective conduct of the proceedings, and it was also necessary to strengthen the responsibility for keeping the information confidential. Ladies and gentlemen, these are in the shortest and most important changes. There are still a number of minor corrections in the pronunciation itself, which does not change the meaning of certain provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69339	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? The Justice Committee? President Emil Tomljanović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69340	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honors, Madam Minister, distinguished assistant ministers, colleagues and colleagues. At its 42nd session held on 29 June 2006, the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Attorney's Office, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 14 June 2006. The Committee discussed the law in question on the basis of its competences referred to in Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. The Prime Minister pointed out that the proposal regulates the jurisdiction of civil and administrative departments of municipal, county and state attorneys of the Republic of Croatia, gives the power to represent in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, improves internal supervision of the work of state lawyers, proposes the establishment of a department of international assistance, determines the content of annual reports, distinguishes the affairs of state attorneys and judicial administrations, improves the procedure of appointment and resolution of state lawyers, proposes a property card for officials, etc. On a request to represent the units of local and regional self-government, it was argued that from the practice of the state's attorney's office in representing them, he had come forward with a proposal that the State's Attorney's Office would no longer represent them. In the debate, the Committee members supported the bill, noting the next proposal. Article 7 proposes to install the obligation of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia to give an opinion on the legal validity of the legal work on the acquisition or alienation of real estate within 30 days. After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusions: First, the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State's Attorney's Office and second, all objections, proposals and opinions presented in the debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office will be addressed to the applicant in order to draw up a final draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69341	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HDZ Club, Honored Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69342	Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the amendment and addition of the Law on the State Attorney's Office, which is in the regular procedure in the first reading and we believe that this law is good and we even think that it will not have to undergo any significant changes compared to the second reading. The State Attorney's Office can say that it is an independent judicial body that has the task of sanctioning the perpetrators of criminal offences, but it is also required to take action to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia. When we tell the State's Attorney's Office, first of all, the first thought we have is actually the criminal part of the state's attorney's work, but we need to know that we have united the last amendments to the Constitution and the law in the State's Attorney's office and the former state's attorney's office that dealt with the protection of interest in the property of the Republic of Croatia, and that it is now a whole state body that deals with and the criminal act, which deals with this civil part and the administrative part. For several years now, we have regular reports on the work of our State's Attorney's Office and these reports are supported by most of our clubs, most of our clubs are very affirmatively expressing their views and opinions on these reports. In the criminal work, I think that the State's Attorney's Office has really reached a very high level of urgency and we see it in all reports that by the number of applications received, by the deadlines in which these criminal applications are being processed, it is indeed the deadlines we have to say very correct, within very short time frames it is resolved. In any case, there is a great space for progress and there is a great space to work on, it is in fact the protection of state property, the interest of the Republic of Croatia in this next period and we need to know that we have made the final conclusions regarding the privatisation and conversion report in fact given to the State's attorney to take all those measures in the cases of privatisation and conversion wherever possible to protect the interest of the Republic of Croatia. We therefore think that these amendments and additions are welcome, because all these changes and complements, looking at each individual and all of them in general, are precisely intended to make the work of the State's Attorney's Office even more effective, even better, to make these powers even more precise, to be even clearer and therefore we think that this is one step that will only help and improve the work of the State's Attorney's Office. Because when we see all of this that the minister has stated is absolutely necessary to regulate the law in a better way, it means that it also specifies that jurisdiction in civil matters so that there is no State's attorneyship of that wandering who is in charge of a particular case, whether this municipal state's attorney, whether that, rather than what is now precisely known to these provisions and actually things are solved by some automation. Also, as regards this provision that the State Attorney's Office will no longer represent units of local self-government, it is true that in certain situations, it is not often, but in certain situations there is indeed a different interest especially in property between units of local self-government and the Republic of Croatia, and now in some cases it means the local self-government unit, it is the prosecutor in relation to the Republic of Croatia and in other cases our State Attorney is as a state body, representing that unit of local self-government. And I think that these transitional provisions have affected the deadline where it was given that by 1 January 2007, there will be a transitional period for municipalities and where cities will be organised differently either through law offices or some independent legal service that will handle it. Also to welcome is the establishment of these departments of the Internal Affairs Department, also the Department of International Assistance and Co-operation. The establishment of this internal supervisory department is actually strengthening the self-control of work, it is a large organization in the State Attorney's Office that works in the entire country and it is indeed necessary to establish an effective organisation, a department that will carry out a quality and supervision of the work of our State Attorney's Office. As the need for the establishment of the Department of International Assistance and Co-operation has been stated, as we see both the forms of crime and the crimes themselves becoming increasingly sophisticated, they are actually different as well as the development of society, the development of business between entities is increasingly taking on international traits and, therefore, a comprehensive work of not only the State's Attorney's Office within the Republic of Croatia but the State's Attorney's Office and in international frameworks is therefore a very important establishment of this Department of International Assistance and Cooperation. Also within all state and municipal and county departments are established for criminal, civil and administrative matters, which is also good because these are objects that are different by their nature, by their character. And in this way, by setting up special departments, they will certainly be better able to monitor themselves, better able to work on each of these departments. We see that within the framework of the State's Attorney's Office, it is now under the proposal of this Law, and there will be separate personnel records. So far, the staff records of the State's Attorney's Office have led the ministry, but it's very good that only the state's attorney's office has established personnel records, too, to see exactly what personnel are employed, how the future staff policy needs to be run here. These discharge procedures, related to the appointment, have been developed and improved. Also elaborated and much more quality-regulated evaluation procedures were developed, as it was seen that the rather up-to-date regulation concerning the evaluation of state lawyers was indistinguishable and the existing, in fact, regulation could not in a good way assess the work of state lawyers. Now there's actually a lot more of these evaluation categories that can only help in any case, it can contribute to our public lawyers being objectively evaluated. For them to be and have one objective grade and these 5 classes and 4 classes that are proposed for the municipal and county state's attorneys will also help one better assessment of what state's attorneys we have. It is also important and we welcome the provision of Article 29 where those rights of national minorities guaranteed by the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities are incorporated into this Act so that there is no dispute whether or not this law will apply. It now explicitly and very clearly writes what rights are meant in areas where the national minority crosses a certain percentage. This Law also insists on continuous education. We see that it is also in the judiciary, so in our courts, so it certainly is necessary for these standards to be incorporated into the state's attorney's office. Because we bring new regulations daily, we see new phenomena in business and social life, and that's why education is needed not only in other segments but also in the state's attorney's office and these amendments to the law, which is exactly what we fully support. We also see that the property card is being introduced and that is something that will contribute to transparency, accountability. This is one measure that will, in fact, certainly contribute and make it perfectly clear to us that we also want to prevent any corruption in the state's attorney's office. Because it will be very clear what the state's attorney of property had before his appointment and after. When we compare it, we will see whether it was consistent with its incomes or not. So if there are any big differences, these doubts can already be justified, so you can get into some kind of procedure. The stricter rules are about tight responsibility, which we also think is fine. It will also strengthen work, strengthen responsibility and access in the business itself. We see that, as in the courts themselves, the strengthened powers of advisers and here at the State Attorney's Office are being strengthened and the powers of advisers are being increased which will be good given the scope of the work that I say, by unifying this criminal and civil work within the State's Attorney's office, will certainly be welcomed because the work of the State's Attorney's Office is therefore significantly greater and the scope of this State's body is important. The spokesman, also the institution that is being introduced, we see how much public interest it is in the work of the State's Attorney's Office, and therefore this Law also provides for an institution of speakers, which is very important that the state's attorney's office is timely and objectively, a good way to provide information to the public about its work, and yet on the other hand, to protect all of the things that must be within this process, which relate to the sustainability of certain data and that. Therefore, here, the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the amendments to this Law because we think it will contribute to a clearer, better-quality organisation of the work of the State's Attorney's Office, which has so far been high-quality according to the reports we have received in this House. And after this, we expect it to be even more quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69343	The club of HSP MPs, the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69344	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, dear Minister. So listening to the introduction of the Minister and the representative of the Croatian Democratic Community Club would get the false impression that the situation in the work and operation of the State's Attorney's Office is ideal, that the ideal situation in the functioning of the rule of law is ideal. And now, we're going to bring some more changes and additions to these 4.5 questions that are proposed here so that the situation will be even better than it was. But here we must show the perception of the Croatian public, what the perception of Croatian citizens is. On behalf of the Croatian Party of Rights Club, and on behalf of the perception of Croatian citizens, we must ask three of the most important questions and ask that we finally get answers to 3 important questions. The situation isn't as wonderful and wonderful as it tries to show itself. The first important question is whether this law will answer the question of what Croatian citizens are looking for, and the Croatian Party's Club of Rights, effective action and action of the State's Attorney General and finally, the establishment of the principle of rule of law and the functioning of the rule of law related to sanctioning the crimes committed and the protection of the property of the Republic of Croatia? What to tell the public after the case of drug dealer Jaksa Cvitanovic, who has 92 criminal charges. Well, as the state's attorney's office worked there, which was done by the police, which was done by the judiciary, and he fled from Croatia. And so it is, apparently the police have made it possible for him. What kind of messages are these to the Croatian public and what kind of messages, and what are we, can we just go through that easily? This is to be answered by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the State's Attorney's Office. People expect the functioning and functioning of the rule of law, not for drug dealers to walk around, drug dealers to avoid liability with the help of someone. If 92 criminal charges have been filed against someone, and among other criminal charges have been filed by the police, it means criminal charges filed by the police have a whole other weight than criminal charges filed by Croatian citizens, some other bodies or, say, anonymous criminal charges. And so when it comes to this part of the Law on the Labour of the State Attorney's Office, there must be a question and responsibilities for non-registration of criminal offences committed, for the fact that those who have committed crimes are walking freely, and on the other hand, the state is counting on pensioners who sell pants on the markets to raise money for mere survival. So what are these messages, and now we are looking first and foremost for the Croatian public to answer this first question. Secondly, the second important question, or another important answer that we are looking for, is whether the State Attorney's Office will act on official duty at last in all cases when the state is damaged as a case of conversion and privatisation, so this is about the State's attorney's office to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia. If the State Audit for a thousand 481 cases has found that privatisation and conversion has been carried out illegally of a thousand 556, and we have no case that the State's Attorney's Office has acted on official duty and initiated the advertising procedure for nothing, i.e. the annulment of conversion and privatisation, and why is this not an explicit statement in this section of the jurisdiction of the civil and administrative departments of the municipal, county and state attorneys? Why is that not explicit said but spoken in accordance with the law without a clear diction? This certainly awaits the Croatian public and the Croatian party of rights club. Now, when we talked about the report on the work of the State's Attorney's Office, then we all said that one issue should finally be resolved, which is a very important issue, which is the issue of disputes that Croatian citizens are leading against the state, which means they're taking the lead against the state because the state owes them. Such disputes are many and the value of such disputes is free of interest as the regular ones so tight over 7 billion kunas, more than 7 billion kunas if they take regular and tighten interest then there goes over 11 billion kunas. We all agreed that this question should be resolved by law. Why didn't you handle it? Why does the State, or the Government force the State's Attorney's Office to buy time and run disputes using all legal means as regular and extraordinary as well as to delay disputes instead of going to give power to the State's Attorney's office to make court settlements or outside court settlements over time during the repayment of all these debts because if this is not the case, it means that if the State's gonna lose these disputes because the matter is clear and unequivocal, that's what the Attorney General himself told us when he filed the report, but we also agreed that we would react. Now the law has come, we're not responding. Now we're going to discuss this part again in the State's Attorney's report and we're not going to react again. So I think it's time and time to finally put that part into law and start to solve these issues, not in this way that's being done now. As for the meaning that we first expect answers to these three important questions, then we can discuss these other situations. Of course, we at the club agree that there is a need to regulate the jurisdiction of civil-government departments of the municipal, county and state attorneys and, above all, from this point of view of acting on official duty and to see what we must be, acting on official duty in all cases when the various ministries and central authorities of the state administration make various contracts. It happens to you every day that it does, and there it would be, and we know that they have no legal personality, but for all these things that they do correspond to the state, and that the State's Attorney's office should not only give opinions but really give consent to contracts of that kind because there are lots of contracts that are at the expense of the state and we expect and responsible relationship between the State's attorney. We agree with the fact that it is not right that, regardless of what was once the former Ombudsman's office represented both municipalities and cities because there is indeed a situation that the criminal department must, on the one hand, bring criminal proceedings against the responsible persons in cities and municipalities, and on the other hand, the civil and administrative department defends the city and the municipality for the damage that this municipality has done to its criminal, say the head of the municipality, or the city or responsible person, in an appropriate procedure. So it's really notsens which is well solved in this way because we already have a lot of different situations where, say, when you ask the leaders within cities and municipalities about the issues where the citizens of these cities and municipalities are damaged, let's say the question of the City of Zagreb and the pooling of funds for the construction of the markets, then the answer where people are obviously damaged is, we also discussed on the Assembly Committee on Presentations and Appeals, meaning where contracts of that kind of nature are made where someone forces someone to give money, and in the end of that money doesn't get anything. The merger of the market's funds gives nothing, the citizens give money and ultimately it is all the property of the market, and when asked what is the state of play it is a simple answer that is a judicial dispute, the State's attorney represents us, while, on the other hand, the same State's attorney should take action so as not to contract such a nature in general and to act on official duty to advertise a zero contract of that kind of nature. These other changes relating to property cards to this part of international legal aid and these other issues of tight responsibility, moving the report is more or less cosmetics related to the part that was made in the area of amendments and the addition of the Law on Courts, with it really having to say that this property card issue is better solved and so because we have only solved for future appointments in the courts and here is also spoken for by all those who at the moment are acting in a duty which is a good solution that they too have to give their property card. We also agree with this work that in certain situations it will also be necessary to carry out a security check related to the appointment of officials in the state's attorneys. We just hope that the security check will not be politically motivated because, according to our court for the main criterion, the main criterion for working in the State's Attorney's Office or for acting as a state's attorney, deputy state's attorney should be expertise, honesty, professionalism, patriotism and honesty. Now, if it checks out through security checks, then it depends on who checks. The worst thing would be if, as part of such security checks, that political coloration was put on, because then there's a variant if you're like one government automatically when power changes, then you're unsuitable. Therefore, we ask that measures be taken for the second reading and answers to these three crucial questions of the Croatian Party Club of Rights as well as the Croatian citizens themselves who are finally expected to operate and the state's attorneyship and thus to make full contributions to strengthening the security options of Croatian citizens and to move decisively to fight corruption and all other forms that threaten Croatian society and that send false messages to citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69345	Thank you. The HNS Club is a respected representative of Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69346	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We are discussing today a state attorney whose report we spoke very highly of all the enthusiastic and way of presentation and what he did. However, it is obvious that things can continue to improve and make them more efficient, make them more modern, make them more useful. It is also evidence that the ministry is proposing, or the government is proposing these amendments and additions to the law. In the opening part, the proposing's intentions are highlighted, so what is now being done by the Proposer. Some of these intentions, most of them are actually commendable and talk about the effort to finally shape the functioning of the state’s attorneyship in such a way as to better respond to its function. Some Croatian People's Party Club are not quite clear, we see some deep solutions in them, and I would like to say something about it. The first intention is to regulate jurisdiction by setting up a situation that has so far been somewhat chaotic, so it has not always been known exactly which state's attorney's office is in charge of which field and in which case. This would explain it in some ways, and we believe that this change is actually commendable and necessary. The second intention is to abolish the power of the state attorney's office to represent local self-government or the interests of local self-government with an explanation that this is a solution that is anti-constitutional and that there is a situation where the interests of local self-government and the interests of the central state, which are actually protected by the state's attorney divergent or found in conflict and lay and in the public interest, I think it would be necessary to define what is the Croatian state. Is the town of Rijeka Croatian state, is the Primorje-Gorski County Croatian state. I understand that there may be a situation where the interests of the central state and local self-government don't really match, there may be a dispute over an object, about property. And now, logically, the state's attorney will represent one of the sides, can't represent both of them if they don't express the same interests. However, I suppose this could be regulated in the law to make such a situation clear and to offer a solution to such a situation. In all other situations, I don't really see the need for local self-government to end the possibility of a state attorney representing her. This will mean that in every situation, it will be necessary for each dispute and for each case to hire its lawyer, hire some legal service, spend another pile of money and service and potentials that can help in such a situation already exist in the central state. I think that the Croatian state does not only the central state and what is happening on this square but that Croatia also makes up all 4.5 million of its inhabitants and all the districts, cities and municipalities. One of the intentions is to introduce internal control or to distinguish the internal control of the judiciary and the state's attorney's office, which is, of course, necessary because the tasks that these two authorities are dealing with are clearly different and it is necessary to make it evident that people who are watching specialise in the part of the supervision they are doing, which they will do. Few of us at the Croatian People's Party Club have confused that the education of state lawyers and their deputies is classified under the chapter of internal supervision. It's not acceptable for these two categories to actually overlap, identify, what they do with them. Of course it is necessary for state lawyers and their deputies to be educated, perfected, and all that expensive, finally and the Judicial Academy is set up for that. But whether it's just a head of surveillance or it's supposed to fall under some other head, some independent head seems to me that this is an irrational and non-transparent solution. When it comes to education, only a judicial academy is mentioned in an article on the need for education. The formal education systems of lawyers are not involved. We think that this is not good and that formal systems, the college education systems of lawyers should also be included as one of the opportunities to perfect the state's attorneys. The possibility of setting up an international co-operation department is thus established. Of course it's necessary. The state's attorney, as his report shows, has been working together internationally so far. He'll cooperate in the future. There is also regional co-operation between deputy state attorneys with pandas in neighbouring countries, and it is good to regulate this institutionally. that there's a service, a department, whatever it's gonna be called, who's gonna do the job. We talked a lot about the contents of the report both this year and last year and scheduled when Mr Bajić submitted these reports to the Croatian Parliament. We concluded that they were systematically made and as far as I can see the definition of the content of the report came from Mr. Bajic's report. So what it looks like is so much and the law now defines what's supposed to be in it. So another confirmation that those reports were good. But I'll come back to that later. A security check shall be introduced, but not mandatory, and given to future state lawyers or their deputies the possibility of: (a) accepting a security check, (b) refusing a security check. That possibility is, of course, just fictitious. I think it should be lifted and the security clearance obligation imposed. It's about such functions where he has to be sure that it's the person who's going to do the job fairly and there's no stain on the biography that could be blackmailed. And in the final instance, if someone running for that function refuses a security check, so who's going to trust him to appoint him to that function? If a man's afraid to enter a security check, that means there's a reason he's afraid? So this, this institute is actually making sense to me. It's pointless to offer an opportunity for something a man refuses for his right. An estate card is being introduced for state lawyers and their deputies, which is, of course, commendable. These are people who are in a position to push them from all sides and press them with corruption offers and they're all just people. And this is the way of verifying property as well as all other state officials is needed. We're talking more and more often about property cards. When we talked about health laws, we talked about an asset censorship that, of course, means a card. How's that gonna determine the censorship if there's no card? It seems to us at the Club of the Croatian People's Party that we will soon have to deal with some kind of, some kind of law or amendment of some existing law where the property card will become a liability. Obviously, society’s arrangement is approaching that level so that something like this should become mandatory. And finally, more powers are given to the advisors, which naturally increases efficiency and reduces pressure on the state's attorney and the deputy state's attorney. Even if there's a limit to it. It is perfectly clear that, however, the adviser cannot perform all those functions that the state's attorney can perform and in the final text of the law, I think that this can be more clearly distinguished. A few remarks on the text itself of these amendments and additions to the Law. In Article 7 of the amendment and addition of paragraphs 4 and 5, I compared them with the preceding text, I see no reason. I think the text is identical, I don't think anything has changed except numbers, item numbers, so I don't know what it's doing here? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The government is in some way ruling in the sense that it no longer gives instructions to a state lawyer but an opinion. That sounds much nicer, but does not mean "God knows what" because the government's opinion of course obliges the State's Attorney's Office if it's given in a rather clear and explicit way, the State's Attorney's Office will hardly oust that opinion and even less disprove it. Article 13 I have already mentioned these talks on perfection and supervision in an article, in one, in fact, item. I think those two things should be separated because they definitely don't mean the same thing and they don't fall into the same kind of work. The control referred to in Article 19 and the amendments to Article 44 shall refer to the conduct of judicial affairs. I suppose the definition was taken over by the Court Act, was it? Here it is if it is not more sensitive and it is at least as sensitive as in the Law of Courts. This control must indeed be strictly limited to that administrative and administrative part of the business and must not go into the measure of the matter with any finger. in what and how does a state's attorney really work? I think that would also make it clearer and more concrete in the very text of the law to be defined. The security check referred to in Article 22 has already been made in our opinion necessary. The only thing to take care of and what should not happen in practice and it has happened hundreds and thousands of times that this safe check actually stops at, at a level of politics, at a level of moral-political and I don't know what it's called. Therefore, a security check should be a check in the interest of forming or drawing up the character of that state attorney as an expert, honest lawyer who is able to commit himself to his work, not revealing whether in his political or similar attitudes man has defined himself as left, right, middle or fourth option. Articles 24 and 68 discuss the termination of the duties of a state attorney and one of the ways in which he ends his duties is when he turns 70 years old. Let's imagine a little bit, shall we? This job seems more dynamic, stressful and requires more and physical energy and intellectual energy than most jobs in the country. Is the 70-year limit that should be respected as in the judicial titles and titles of a regular university professor and so on. I'm not sure that's quite the way it is. I'd just like to see more time draw attention to one thing that often happens to us especially with the first readings of the law. Materials come to the bench that apparently no one has read them at least twice from those who propose, so it happens that in an explanation in one or two places instead of a state lawyer writing the judge's obvious definition and the explanation were taken from the Law on Courts. Well then, in Article 52, it is replaced by words that will give you what it is to simplify your thoughts illiterately, there is no infinitative in futur and so on. I would ask the Proposer to submit the texts they send to the Parliament to submit the previous lecture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69347	Thank you. SDSS's respected representative, Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69348	Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I will immediately say at the beginning that the SDSS Club will support this proposal because we see or at least I can say so we want to see that it wants to improve the work of the State's Attorney's Office. You might also say this way to raise and ensure the authority of the state's attorney's office simply because it's actually an emergency. Now, when we talk about the authority of the state attorney's office, it can be said that we need to talk about the authority of expertise, further about the use of facts and arguments in the process as a force. Then talk about the same relationship with each individual, talk about quick action and what seems kind of important to me that the State's Attorney's Office functions as a system. I want and there is a sign that this proposal wants to improve the authority of the State's Attorney's Office in this sense as I have now said. There's something else to say. From this pay phone and from this home, we also talked about courts in a similar way. This means that judges and courts actually need the authority of the profession and the authority of the system. Of course, this cannot be resolved and resolved only by one proposal or by this proposal and cannot be resolved by law alone at the very end of the line. And that's why I'm saying that these attempts that we have here on the agenda seem to me to admit that they're going in that direction, but it seems to me that they're not enough for what we'd like the state's attorneys to be real authority and that it all works together as a system. A few segments that are processed here I'll mention separately. First, this question that falls under some kind of title of personnel renewal and surveillance. First of all, it's about state lawyers looking for better quality work. In fact, they're asked to do better. Professional and human identification is required. This is where the more active role of advisors is proposed. I think that's good and what should all be expensive or what should be summed up into some common denominator that's that the State's Attorney's Office is doing and acting as a team. In order to act as a team, this professional authority and this more active role as advisers and joint action of the entire team in one of these jurisdictions is also needed. The second thing this proposal mentions or which this proposal is being processed is professional progress. A man is amazed at the explanation or attitude in the explanation or observation that some people do not have the will or refuse professional training. This fact means that they don't actually understand this that the role of a lawyer is the role of a profession and that it is a role of professional authority and that it cannot be achieved or maintained without professional advancement. I am somewhat skeptical that it can only be done by this proposal simply so that you would from a man in the State's Attorney's Office, at all, that you would from a man who behaves as a state officer in order to get a profession from him and not an official there is, of course, the law there needs to establish certain lices but also in general to pay attention to it and that man is actually valued as a whole according to that criterion. The assessment that's going to be given, I think it's a good thing that this model of evaluation is perfected in a way that this is exactly how it's going to go together and how it's all going to turn out just to see it. Next thing you know, the third thing is about what I just said. It's a matter of individual responsibility. The law, i.e. the proposal here, says that the question of accountability will somehow be brought into line with what is called the respect of the code of ethics and how it is treated by the code at all. This is what I think must and should be incorporated into the law, whether in one way or even better way there is now to be discussed, but it is certainly necessary to evaluate everyone's work individually on this matter of profession and on the matter of honorable conduct in its task. Now what the code will look like is that my actions will be monitored according to him just to be seen, because practice can have a variety of variations, so it can be sprayed into God knows what. I think it's a good question, the question of regulating the transfer in a way that it's done without a pardon, and if I have arguments that someone has earned such a transfer and if there's enough arguments for such a kind of probationary sentence. Unfortunately, the law also requires this case against a state's attorney who is obstructing the work. This is again what I said earlier that some people consider their role, this role, in fact, to be the role of officials, and then there is no greater degree of responsibility. But the very fact that we're installing this into the law shows that this thing in practice can still be ticklish and that people will behave differently and certainly act differently and it seems to me regrettably to act beyond what is expected of such a role and such an individual. The fourth thing that is being installed or discussed here in this proposal is this issue of the release of state attorneys in representing units of local self-government. Of course, that makes sense because of what's called some kind of conflict of interest here, but it will somehow lead local self-government units to a more difficult situation because it will need more money and get into some kind of more complicated arrangement. It's basically standing, and I'm afraid it might have some unpleasant consequences. I think it was possible for the state's attorneys to remain as general representatives of local self-government units in some segments, but he wouldn't argue that much now. And I'm going to finish with what my colleague Vuljanic mentioned here, about spelling and real writing. I, it's risky to talk about spelling because it's a question of spelling now you never know how it is, but I think how much I get that it's wrong to write it will act, will continue, will call you etc. I think it should be fixed simply because it's not spellingly correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69349	Thank you. HSLS Club, Honored Representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69350	Dear Mr. President, Ms. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. It's a little fellow Gajica gave me actually creamworth, it's a little tragic that there and the High Croatian House actually come this kind of text that belongs to somewhere really populace, namely in a mere school should be learned, but this schooling that we think is very good obviously not... Indeed, it is quite unpleasant to miss, but I believe that this one who knows what reminder will act to make it right in the future. [[You don't understand.]] Right at the beginning of my statement, the HSLS Club will support this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office. First of all, from the simple fact that liberals are just insisting on the importance of institutions, and especially institutions are important in such delicate situations that belong to our transition and indeed institutions that, with authority, independent institutions must be our goal, and everything should be done to enable them to really work autonomously, to listen to their decisions, to respect themselves, and that indeed every citizen should be proud that the institutions in his society are just like that. The same thing that proved to be very good, we brought the Law of Attorneyship to me in May 2001 and it didn't go to that sudden change, it was waiting for the right time, it seems to me that five years is exactly a good time to really see what it is, whether the intensity has always been in agreement with reality, and it seems to me here after these five years that these proposed changes and complements in some way bear witness to that one and patience and one of the analysts behind this bill proposal, and we also praise it on behalf of our club. On the other hand, we need to remember that we have recently here and had the appointment of an old state attorney, and if memory doesn't cheat on me, he's got our unanimous support. There really wasn't any club, I don't think any... A representative who had something against the appointment of Mr. Bajic. [[You don't understand.]] It also shows that the state's attorney, or his team, because he's only really the first among the equals, has a positive perception of this, at least of the political public who gave him the green light and has just given him a new mandate and in some way to do what is the intensity of every society, and in particular I say in this way traditional societies where legal certainty, rule of law, equality of people before the law is something that is, which should be sacred and should really be things that are kind of predominant in themselves. The other thing is that sometimes the reality of mocks us, so even today some colleagues have just said that it happens that I don't know that the dealer is supposed to, I don't, what if he trusts the media, drinks coffee with him, so he runs away or just shows himself if one segment in this system doesn't work then we really have a declarative fact that we have good laws, good institutions or good people at the head of those institutions, but I'm saying if only one segment jumps out of that system then there's exactly this mockery of both the rule of law and some belief that we really want to realize that we're going to make it happen. But certainly, both this reality and all that we want to achieve, and the institution of the State's Attorney's Office is exactly what we're going to put into agreement. We said, it's gone and gone, five years have passed, and in that, from 2001 to today, it's happened that the State's Attorney's Office has united itself with the jobs that were once performed by two state bodies, the State's Attorney's Office and the State's Attorney's Office. Such merger after a certain time has shown, however, certain shortcomings relating to the competences and powers of the current civil and administrative departments that have taken over the duties of the Ombudsman because their work often requires guidance from the State Attorney's Office regarding decision-making of jurisdiction in certain cases. In order to improve the work of civil and administrative departments, it is said, that the government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed certain amendments in that part of the law. The problems that often arise were situations where the State's Attorney's Office in the process represented units of local self-government because often the interests of the Republic of Croatia, whose interests the State's attorney's office are both required to the Constitution and to protect and represent, with interests of local self-governments who can be opposed to each other. In order to avoid this, the State Attorney's Office could no longer, under the general authority, represent local self-government but could only do so on the basis of special powers in civil and administrative matters owned or weighted by the Republic of Croatia. This proposed solution would fully harmonize the work of the State's Attorney's Office with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Although here, it seems to me that the colleagues from the HNS have actually well noticed that we ourselves should define what it is, which is the Republic of Croatia, and is it really possible that there really is something that I don't know, which is conditionally said, something local, Osijek, Rijeka, Zagreb, that might be contrary to the interests of the Republic of Croatia. Because I think everything that is Osijek is also Croatia, and everything that is Croatia does not have to be Osijek, etc. So it seems to me that in this, in fact, in this demarcation of units of local self-government will again actually pay a rather expensive price because it seems to me that a whole series of things that are not arranged in these land books or the property issue and the question of everything that has actually been going on for the past 50 years, and especially these last 15 have happened, that these units of local self-government go much worse, precisely in this one where their interests seem to be contrary to the interests of the Republic of Croatia. And I'm afraid and it seems to me at least from experience that the local self-government unit can take better care of what even allegedly belongs to, I don't know, the Republic of Croatia and is located on the territory of that unit of local self-government, administration. Furthermore, the fact is that until now it has been very difficult to control the effectiveness of the State's Attorney's Office, therefore the measures that are now being proposed are also internally supervised and different ways of assessing the work of the state's attorneys. However, in general, according to the assessment of work, there should be one particular skepticy, given the objectivity, since there is always and everywhere is also a certain subjective factor involved, regardless of whether it is positive or negative. It wouldn't be good for our private animosities or sympathy to actually be dominant when an evaluation of someone's work is given. It may therefore be better instead of a communication assessment system to introduce a reward system based on the results achieved. I think it's, that maybe... But it's not really. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The introduction of compulsory education for state lawyers should certainly be welcomed because it is expected to achieve quality work based on newer knowledge and standards. However, the question arises as to how certain sanctions will be addressed for those state lawyers who will not want to participate in education, even though I do have to admit that I cannot understand such a thing. Permanent education is indeed something that should be the point of doing every job, especially one as delicate and sensitive as working in the State's Attorney's Office. In fact, the deputy will be slowed down the course of their progress, but I say, what will happen to those who have fully achieved all the opportunities of progress, or who are not interested in further progress, in which way they will be stimulated to be educated. The question also arises as to why the education obligation applies only to the deputy state attorney because, in our opinion, everyone in the club should follow the paper in the legal system. Also, the establishment of the Department of International Legal Assistance and Cooperation. We at the Club believe that this is a good proposal, the more the need for such a department will become more and more important and more pronounced by our approach to the European Union and finally entering, which is probably the goal. So far, practice has shown the need to distinguish the affairs of the state's attorney's office and the judicial administration. In this way, powers in the right of internal supervision would also be diversified in relation to lower state attorneys, attorney general and the Ministry of Justice. As for security clearance, it should be subject to all candidates. So there should be a principle all or no one, and not just those who, I say, give their consent to it because the job they're going to deal with often has elements that are very important to national security. Therefore, in our opinion, it is not logical to check the security of persons who are far lower-ranking, who can be far more difficult to endanger the country's national security than candidates for future state lawyers and their deputies, if they are elected. We also consider it a good decision to give more powers to counselors because it will also relieve state lawyers of cases that are not complexly demanding so that the advisers could not do them, and thus also encourage the counselors themselves to contribute to their faster appointment for deputy state attorneys and to better prepare for fully independent work. Suggestion... The code has been taken another step, in our opinion, in protecting the integrity of this state body and calling which will certainly contribute to strengthening the capacity of the state's attorney. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what we really think, the state's attorneys will not be an honorary guard without weapons, but rather, a very important factor in the establishment of the rule of law and the security of all its citizens. The proposed text of amendments and addition gives me one seems to me a special dimension in the parts of the law that apply, so I say in our opinion it can accept in the first reading. And we hope that the legislator will consider the comments made. We're just asking questions about immunity, if that's what's left in there. Because if, I don't think that's the end of our constitution, the immunity of the state's attorneys. I'm saying, maybe it's a little bit of a nuance of the methodological amendment bill, it's written unspeakable, so maybe I missed it, so I'm assuming I didn't read it best. But we ask, I say, a question of immunity, whether it remains or does not stay, because it should then be brought into line with the Constitution. And we have on page 16 when the appointment of deputy state attorneys must take care of the representation of members of national minorities in accordance with the provisions of Article 22(2). Constitutional law on the rights of national minorities. If I am not mistaken there, this should be governed by a special law, and only in Article 29 says that the new paragraphs 44 and 5 will be added in Article 63. In fact, it seems to us that it is already in the tautology that this is not defined as the provision of Article 22(2). The Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities provides, so we would ask the same explanation, but once again, regardless of all these minor objections precisely in the interest of the State Attorney's Office being an institution of reputation in our society, the HSLS Club will give a positive opinion on this Bill Proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69351	Thank you. In 10 and 48, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. SDP club, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69352	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. President, for the honor of the Minister with her associate, colleague and colleague. The SDP Club supports amendments and additions to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office. These amendments and additions are found to be essentially on that trail, essentially on the same concept and settings of the passed law, which meant then an important step and an important amendment, namely to remind ourselves of the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, so the whole new law was passed on 24 May 2001, as the Proposer notes, and was adopted after the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia from 2000, when the Constitution declared independence of the State's Attorney's Office. So we have a system based on the Constitution, we've introduced a system that we have the State's Attorney's Office as part of a judicial system, that is, a non-judicial body, but part of a judicial system that is completely independent of the executive authority. It's a constitutional starting point. Unfortunately, however, in the recent past, we had a case for top state officials to publicly issue orders to the police and the State's Attorney's office. It's something that's for every conviction. On the other hand, we have systems such as the United States, until recently Italy, and many other countries under which the State Attorney's Office, which is solely responsible for the prosecution of the perpetrators of criminal offences, is part of the executive authority, but in these and such systems that have declared not independence but part of the executive authority, they do not think of touching the work of such a body responsible for the prosecution of the perpetrators of criminal offences and other criminal acts. Of course, at that time, it caused great resistance and suspicion. Let's think of those times. That is why we are pleased today that the promoter particularly supports the HDZ club, therefore, and suggests further additions that are just lying on these principles, at this concept, in these settings. And to remember what the promoter now admits, and sometimes fiercely, he resisted it, which is the merger of the former Attorney General's Office with the State's Attorney's Office, where, right now, these changes want to improve this work precisely in this segment of the State's Attorney's Office's work, i.e. in the affairs of civil departments, which is of paramount importance in the area of economic crime, as assessed only by the State Attorney's Office and accepted by the Proposer. There were major disputes, we remember only in 2001, but that we were on the right track then saying exactly what I'm saying, once again, what the State's Attorney's office claims not only improved their work but that it protected the state's property and that's something that this is the State's Attorney's office that's good part of how I see from their lexus and made this bill requires exactly and additional minutely development of exactly that part of its powers both constitutional and legal. However, this is a state of concern because in no democratic country, the State's attorney is representing the state but is only concerned about the prosecution of crime, but it is obvious that the state still needs to monitor its work at its disposal and protect state property. You see in the foundations of a republican state, a democratic state has been built on the defence of public goods, the protection of public interest, the protection of state property, and not the sale of the same property, and that is why this is an action and this is the demand of the State's attorney's office that his powers are not yet increased, but in any case, they're being specified gratefully, and even if they increase, it's something that the SDP club supports with great faith and hope that the time will come for the State's Attorney's Office to deal with those issues that the State's attorney is dealing with throughout Europe and the whole world, i.e. to be relieved that he deals only with criminal prosecution activities, i.e. the processing of perpetrators of criminal offences. It is good that it is finally being relieved, therefore, in this very sense, of the State's Attorney's office that it no longer represents the local self-government unit, because this job has really been an additional burden on their work. As regards internal control and monitoring of the work of the State Attorney's Office, this is commendable where the State's Attorney's Office, as well as set up under the Monocrat regime, is precisely seeking one greater responsibility, of course not including the parallel responsibility of the Ministry of Justice itself, which should continue to have this administrative oversight over all segments of the State's Attorney's Office, so it may not be the happiest solution that the Ministry of Justice, if it wants to control a lower State's Attorney's Office, can do so directly. Of course, in that case, it would be good to inform the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, but it cannot be denied by the Ministry of Justice its authority and nor to restrict it from communicating with the lower State Attorney's Office only through the State's Attorney's Office. But we understand the need for the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia to then have control over it, not only of the supervision but also of the necessary control required by the Ministry of Justice over the lower authorities of the State's Attorney's Office. It is also good that a good part of the improvements are also related to education and for the sake of better quality and objective assessment of state attorneys, so it is a shame to take a little care of these very criteria that are so minutely worked out here that we at the SDP Club already support for those beginners who will become state lawyers tomorrow, and these are state lawyers. So, in this sense, we expect to see this new law as soon as possible to break the newly established practice since 2003 so that they can compete or threaten worse candidates both in the judiciary and in the state's attorney's office, because then it all seems to be pointless if we don't have developed criteria of excellence, quality, excellence, so something that's being proclaimed from many ministries and at the level of the entire government. We also welcome the establishment of this department of international legal assistance and cooperation and this special department within the state's attorney's office itself, but we note that it could really work, so that it could enforce this legal authority which is now being established is a damage and we are wondering here how it will be satisfied if the necessary funds are not provided. We see that, in the light of this bill, the means are not provided for in the assessment of the funds. However, the applicant argues that there is no need to provide funds. So, we hold that that is not the case because a whole series of new records are being established by the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia and I am specifically a state lawyer and each of the records and especially the departments require additional funding. Therefore, if the proposer seriously thinks that this and life is going to be necessary to provide additional resources, we suggest that the proposer consider this in any event that, until the second reading, funding would eventually be found in the state budget. With regard to the very property card for officials, we welcome very much the awkwardness that happened with the Law on Courts, where, at the end of the day, only the new judges had to subscribe to the public of the property card, and that is exactly what the SDP Club had to do with a special proposal to amend and supplement the law on this particular trail, and as we have now heard from the minister that this would be corrected on that trail. However, we must be consistent. These property cards are not delivered for the control of their leaders but for the control of the public. They're not for some bunker or some archive at the Department of Justice or the State's Attorney's office or at a judge's card in the Supreme Court. They have to be public-based because they're losing any sense of purpose. If they are not, then this is exactly what we are insisting on here and objecting to the fact that the applicant amends and complements it and is fully congenital on this trail and, therefore, if the property cards are already envisaged, they are being done to remove suspicion or for the credibility of the performance and for the public to know about the property status of these officials. I think it's very necessary. What is special to highlight is the provision of Article 7. Giving legal opinions to the state's attorney's office so far. The State Attorney's Office rightly claims and objectes to the state that until now it has given an under-knowledge of certain matter, and often such an opinion, please serve as an excuse for legal matters that could or could have had consequences for the interests of the Republic of Croatia. What was required of the state's attorney's office? Often, if an affair were to arise in public, it would be submitted to the State Attorney's Office for the Prosecution and that only the one who wanted to and to the extent that the State's Attorney's Office wanted was normally made out of such papers, such materials said that there was no basis for prosecution. And then, in public, there was a decision or opinion of an independent judicial body, i.e. State's attorney's office. See, that's what the state's attorney's office warns him about, and it wants him removed from such a duty and giving such opinions. I think it was a clear abuse of this institution that they are very sensitive to and rightly warn. The relationship between the state's attorney's office and the state is a very sensitive issue. On the one hand, we have an institution, therefore, and a declared constitutional principle, and until the end of the law, it has been elaborated that the state's attorney's office is an independent judicial body. On the other hand, we have an irrefutable fact, i.e. the constitutional authority and legally elaborated situations, that the state's attorney general represents the same state. And now the question is, to what extent the state can give orders in these civil matters how to act, whether to admit the claim, whether to give up any legal remedy, whether to conclude a settlement. This provision of Article 8 promotes such a situation but fully on the basis of those of our 2003 amendments to the Law on the Procedural Procedure under which the State's Attorney's Office is obliged to conclude the settlement of obvious claims. How, and why? It is precisely to prevent the state from being one hanged litigator, to generate further costs to the state itself, and also to act on its own example in terms of strengthening civil and business morality. Unfortunately for him so far, although we have special express norms not only in the Law of Prosecution, we should finally see how much this provision is respected. But we also passed a whole series of provisions, i.e. a complete law on settlement and other peaceful dispute resolutions in October 2003. Here, the government only recently talked about the need for a peaceful solution to the dispute. It's a shame. He's been running that law for three years. We have already been able to significantly improve peaceful resolution and thus eliminate needless or always expensive litigation. Because at the end of the day, and no matter how cheap it is, it's always been done with a waste of time and at the expense of both states and litigation parties. It is good that the attorney general can decide precisely for the sake of the effectiveness of acting as a state attorney to represent a number of local and real competent courts. It's something to track down those changes we also have in the courts themselves. It's also good to form a say international department but it also needs to be provided with funds. However, what we cannot accept, which is what article 62 of the amendment, namely the information that is considered classified, is the determination of the confidentiality of the data. We believe that this provision is fully relativised by the Law on Access to Information. It is quite clear that the procedure must be, it must be a secret of what has been declared a secret by law, but not what a lawyer would declare to be a secret. Then it's completely absurd. And then here's the final one: the SDP club therefore supports these amendments and additions to the State's Attorney's Law. We'll get a good organisation, but "no tools" in vain. But the State's Attorney's office doesn't have a good tool. It's been warning the government for years. It has warned the Parliament for years that it is necessary... criminal law on the grounds of changes in economic incrimination. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's already been suggested to the Ministry because it's The ministry's in charge, but unfortunately it's not accepted. [[- Okay. - Okay.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69353	Thank you very much. The HSS Club is a respected representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69354	Dear Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Since the adoption of the amendments to the Constitution in 2000 and in 2001, the adoption of the Law on the State's Attorney's Office where the merger of the State's Attorney's Office and the State's Attorney's Office has been carried out in these past 4 years has shown all the advantages that such a principle has taken, as well as the difficulties that have been met specifically with regard to the civil and administrative department, which has been at least affected by the total of all the measures that were adopted by such a law. Of course, these 4 years have confirmed, or if it were to look at analysts through the work of the State's Attorney's Office during these 4 years, there could still be a crucial direction in which the State's Attorney's Office is heading. First of all, the State Attorney's Office as an independent and independent judicial body and not for no reason, I will say at first that of those three basic functions held by the State's Attorney's Office, it is the primary function of treating the perpetrators of the criminal offence but also other criminal acts should and must remain at the head, at the top of the pyramid, and that precisely a strict hierarchy characterized by the State's Attorney's Office in relation to other judicial bodies must be precisely with this order if we are talking about functions that the State's Attorney has, precisely the function of handling against the perpetrators of the crimes must be primarily at the top of that pyramid. Of course, legal actions to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia are a very specific function which, in Croatian conditions and in our circumstances, often causes the most opposition. The third function, which is the legal means to protect the Constitution and the law are also one of the functions on which to say a few words. It is unquestionable that in the past four years, there has been a single rise in the State's Attorney's Office. That there was a more acceptable relationship against the State's Attorney's office. That, in all categories, if we want to measure one judicial body in terms of independence and independence, progress has been made. Of course, these changes and additions also contribute to the fact that it is often nevertheless, despite these good directions of movement, the State's Attorney's Office was also used as an alibi. So he sometimes served to get an alibi through him that at some point responded clearly always for politically motivated purposes. Whether it is through opinion, whether it is by setting it, whether it is less important at one level or another. But in part these changes and additions are avoided and such traps are given to the State Attorney's office to be truly in full and independent and to represent that institution in this society that will be beyond the reach of the daily policy and which will be dealt with, in recent times with various tasks and therefore at the very beginning, although I would like to praise the introduction of those, those departments of international and legal assistance and cooperation that it is, it is absolutely welcome in the proposal of this Law but I think it must be even more important to stress that financial resources are definitely necessary, but also the working conditions are adapted to the very opportunities that they wish to achieve, but also to the problems and challenges that appear on a daily basis. Namely with regard to the perpetrators of criminal offences, but also with other criminal acts on this particular field, it is, in that framework, that they lie potentially already today, tomorrow certainly with the integration of economic, monetary, military as you will. These challenges are far more difficult. And it's far more difficult to track possible perpetrators, but also the consequences of committing crimes that occur in the so-called so-called crime. international frameworks. And that's why, in fact, the backlog that already exists today in that section and the state's attorney when he spoke here in his report just referred to that part where the threat is greatest. She's definitely the most present there, and we can definitely do the least, unfortunately, under these and such circumstances. Because the challenges unfortunately, the perpetrators of possible crimes and other criminal acts are no longer so harshly ranked. He, that first level of criminal offender, was far sophisticated. A whole series of institutions, under quotes, were in the monetary, financial or economic sphere, increasingly imposing and moving along the legal margins of possible sanctions. It is not just a question of Croatian legislation, the Croatian judiciary, the Croatian State's Attorney's Office that is otherwise a global challenge set before all countries. So, one integrated system, I think that the minister is definitely aware of what I'm talking about because the subject of a broader debate in the European Parliament has been under discussion for almost 6 months now in the special departments of the European Parliament, but the greatest step has definitely been made by the US Senate in such a procedure which in the annual report does not exactly generalise but directly points to the possibilities of legal challenges that are not within the reach of sanctions, which are in international trade, economy, financial institutions, etc. Therefore, this Department of International Legal Assistance is something that is extremely welcome. However, if we do not want it to remain just a dead letter on paper, we must clearly provide very significant financial resources, and also create otherwise good conditions which, unfortunately, there are neither in the State's Attorney's Office in terms of space nor in terms of possible education, nor in terms of stimulating work, nor in terms of the employment of those experts that are necessary in order to detect the perpetrators of criminal offences in due time. Namely, when or if we refer again to the fact that it is the civil-government departments are the basis on which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has entered these amendments and complements, and that most of the proceedings against it are being conducted, because the State's attorney represents the interests of the Republic of Croatia in a variety of disputes conducted by private, natural persons, legal persons, international institutions, etc. etc. We're also the most vulnerable here. Why? So because I will not name and name a concert in a dispute with the State Attorney's Office, i.e. with the Republic of Croatia represented by the State's Attorney's Office at the disposal of a whole set of legal aids, international experts, the best paid people in this field, many of whom have emerged from the State's Attorney's Office, the Croatian judiciary, and Croatian policies which mean the entire arsenal of legal and in-house tools to defend the interests of their customers or to defend their interests, so to speak, is the potential of the State's attorney at an average salary of 7 to 9000 kuna, 10000 kuna. So in the stimulating part, it's very difficult to deal with, and I'm not saying that the infrastructure that supplies both sides doesn't give equal opportunities and chances of getting that slow. Of course, since we are talking about an independent and sovereign aspect of the overall judicial system of the Republic of Croatia and of course no other measures, and it is not possible to obtain the measures of the arguments, it is the need to strengthen the entire State Attorney's Office and these amendments and additions make a part of the contribution to such a way of empowerment. But also in the state budget, we need to find additional resources to strengthen two key ones for us at the HSS Club of Categories that are precise and that are introduced into these changes and additions, which is the quality of work. So, improving internal surveillance of the work of the State's Attorney's Office. So, a new system of assessing the quality of objective evaluation where the question is immediately asked whether it is possible in such an important body that there is a possibility that someone does not want to participate in education, that someone does not want to improve, that someone does not want to acquire the knowledge that is necessary to cope with the difficult circumstances and circumstances that happen daily. Of course not. One who is not ready to learn, one who is not ready to arm himself with knowledge as a major institute or a major tool in a battle ahead of him, of course, will not be able to monitor everything that is wanted by this law. That is why we absolutely support these quality improvements that want to be prescribed by such interpretations. What's also important and what I want to refer to is the procedure for the appointment and resolution of the state's attorneys and their deputies. Namely, what hasn't been good so far is to check out the information on who's who's appointed to the state's attorney. Who's the one who's appointed deputy municipal, county. Who he is and whether by the time we appoint him we can say yes, we have appointed the right man in every way. Unfortunately, the current system did not know previous checks, so including security checks. In my view, there is no valid reason for a security check to be possible only after a mandatory interview with the candidate provided that the state's attorney so requests. I think a security check for such important functions is in these circumstances that we live in, and with the knowledge that we want to achieve the goal that we want to achieve something that should simply not bother anyone, but that is the result of Article 2. The Security Services Act is precisely one of which is the bodies of the state administration, the authorities of the judicial authority, offices in the professional services of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Professional Services of the Croatian Parliament and those carrying out activities of particular importance for the interest of the Republic of Croatia. I think it is of particular importance for the interest of the Republic of Croatia, and I don't think it should run away from that security check that simply has the exclusive character of protection and preventive action, and cannot possibly have a system of elimination, and especially without reasonable elimination. What is especially important for us is the content of the annual report. In fact, we have repeatedly reached conclusions that we remember all together, and we are unanimously in charge of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we are in charge of the State Attorney's Office to examine all the irregularities in privatisation with the exact indications that need to be examined and to report on this, that the State's Attorney General has initiated a whole series of proceedings against these, a number of times so has the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security concluded. Many times this House has brought such a report to the State's Attorney's Office to initiate this and that. Unfortunately, of these conclusions as well as of most similar content conclusions, nothing. I think this is an opportunity for the State's Attorney's Office to refer to this part of its responsibility in terms of protecting the interests of the Republic of Croatia when it comes to the matter of removing I will not say anomalies but serious oversights, serious violations, serious crimes, serious disorders which in the legal system but also in the mental context of a country are always severe consequences. Therefore, these changes and additions have come in handy. We absolutely support them and give absolute support to the State Attorney's Office and the Ministry of Resort to continue the installation of such a system primarily independent, independent, who will never refer to policy demands, which will not be an alibi for individual opinions and with this amnesty, even if it was both public for anyone and for nothing that would simply implement the policy of punishing those who commit crimes. And that is, of course, the primary task and that is the task in which they will find their legal measure and those other 2 functions, which is the protection of the property of the Republic of Croatia, but also the protection of the Constitution and the law. Therefore, the HSS Club supports these amendments and additions to the Law on State Attorney's Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69355	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Representative of the Crown of Peronja. He's gone. He's losing his word. Representative Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. She's gone, she's losing her word. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69356	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear minister, fellow MPs. Well, I'd like to set this law on a second basis. Are the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament satisfied with the state of crime in the Republic of Croatia? Why am I putting it like that? Well, because the State's Attorney's Office is an important link in the repression of crime in the Republic of Croatia. It's an important link. Perhaps the most important for the state of crime in the Republic of Croatia, and if we are not satisfied with this situation have we at least analyzed the causes that the situation is not changing? We're neither. I estimate that we are not satisfied with the state of crime, crime, and neither with the changes we offer whether the changes in the law, the laws, whether the changes are in the judiciary, whether the changes are in the State's attorney's office. What do I come to the conclusion? First of all, I think we have the terror of the authority of certain state bodies. In fact, if we look at just how many applications or found and reported illegality in conversion and privatisation, any of the state bodies, we'll see that it's very little, and how little it's been found to be illegal. Let's start with the State Audit and figure out how many criminal applications were made from the Audit. How many criminal applications were made in the privatisation process from the State Audit findings? Then how many valid applications, not just valid, but how many did the State's Attorney's Office succeed in persecuting crime from privatisation? I don't think we can be happy here either. At the same time, we treat some things formally. Here's an example. This Regulation shall enter into The proposal to amend and supplement the Law as a measure of the quality of the work of legislators provides for how many State's attorneys, i.e. deputies, use legal medicines. If this is an element for assessing the quality of work, the number and the constant lifting of legal medicines, this in other words goes to the mill, let's stall the procedures. If this is the basis for the assessment of work then it is indeed formalisation, raise legal medicines regardless of whether there are grounds or not. The following are added in Articles 16 and 17 of the EEA Agreement: The proposal for this law provides, in fact, for a collective body, a college to evaluate the work of a state attorney. My colleagues and fellow MPs, the state's attorney is incoherent. He's the only one here who's responsible for the work of the State's Attorney's Office in Parliament. The only one who answers in the Parliament and has and must have the authority to do so fully. The legislator then proposes to create a legal obligation for officials in the State's Attorney's Office to report on the property 30 days after the adoption of this Act. That would mean, and that means that there is no obligation for officials, actually by passing this law it should stand, not stand. Therefore, it is necessary to amend that all officials submit evidence of the property after the entry into force. And when it comes to the merger of the public defender's office and the state's attorney, or the state's attorney, I could put it this way. If, if the civil law and constitutional solution is that all in Croatia are equal before the law and before the court and that property is the foundation of the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, such a solution legally favours the protection of the property of the state. Because the court is represented by the State's judicial authority, before the court, is represented by the judicial body. And then it can't be and it's not the same position in the courtroom of the state's attorney and attorney... This is based on every principle of favouring the protection of state property and state interest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For this reason, no matter what the State's Attorney's Office says now, I know that in the first years of the application of this institute, and in practice I know that the courts have called, this is the state's attorney's position regardless of the arguments the lawyers used in the litigation. So, I have no doubt and I agree with those who say this is a proposal to amend and supplement that will improve in one segment, and in another it will reduce the efficiency of the state's attorney. It's like grading through colleges, not a personal relationship to the work of individual lawyers, which, in my court, will separate the role of the State's Attorney's Office in the management of that organization. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69357	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. She's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69358	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, dear Minister. So I think it is primarily important within this Act that the public, the Croatian public, Croatian citizens get unequivocal answers, and related to the functioning of the rule of law, the fight against crime, the fight against corruption, the fight against the drug mafia and all other forms that affect Croatian citizens. In fact, Croatian citizens expect effective action and action of the State's Attorney's Office in these cases and these situations, and we ourselves know that the media is full of cases that speak exactly the opposite. One of the ecldent cases that take up these days media spaces is the case of Jakša Cvitanović, called Cvitanović, who is a drug dealer from the Korčula area against whom 92 criminal charges have been filed, and these are not subject to criminal charges anonymously from citizens, but are linked to criminal charges filed by the police, and we ourselves know as lawyers that the character of the criminal application filed by the police is far more difficult than any other criminal application, we saw what happened two days ago and therefore on behalf of the HSP club, and also on behalf of his colleague, Ruža Tomasic, a parliamentary representative who has shown how and in what way should be fought against the non-work of the authorities, how and how should protect Croatian citizens, we seek the final answer that the State Attorney General has made for these 92 criminal charges and what is he intended to do? If it happens in such or similar situations as it is related to this part, let's say it was interesting that it went unnoticed when a list of cafes in Zagreb was published last week when cocaine was sniffed. After that, other daily newspapers spoke about the Adriatic coast. In any other normal state, the police would react publicly, the State's Attorney's office would react publicly to us as if nothing had happened. So the weekly publishes a list of cafes in the City of Zagreb where cocaine is properly sniffed, none of us in this country is concerned, then after that information is published about the Adriatic coast, it is a matter that really needs to be deeply concerned and the Croatian public and all of us that the competent and relevant authorities are doing and that they generally intend to work in such or similar situations because there is no establishment of a rule of law without the effective work of the State's attorney, without effective sanctioning, means sanctioning all criminal and criminal behaviours and, on the one hand, it means immediately taking prevention. The public also expects answers when and how the State Attorney's Office will act and take measures related to everything the State Audit has found illegal in the procedure called implementation, in the procedures of revision, conversion and privatisation, such as a thousand 481 cases of a thousand 556 which the State Audit has supervised. In these situations and here we ask that it is legally correctly established that in such and similar situations the State Attorney's Office must act on official duty because the work of the State Audit is in force, which is worth all of what is worth the various demands of workers who are damaged when they only form objects in the Croatian Privatisation Fund, and there is no evidence of that part of the conduct under official duty, which is important in these situations. So one such procedure or process is not open. And secondly, what Croatian citizens expect is a large number of disputes, property-law cases, i.e. the civil area where the sued state is, where citizens are seeking compensation, and we have seen ourselves reports from the chief state attorney that the value of these disputes is over 7 billion kuna, with the fact that these disputes have been going on for a long time and, unfortunately, there is such a fact that the government, there is the State Attorney's Office working on the government's orders. The government is asking the State's Attorney's office to take all legal measures and to make it regular for extraordinary legal medicines to delay these disputes and procedures, although in most of these disputes the matter is clear that the state has to pay for it. Therefore, when we talked about the State's Attorney's report, I proposed on behalf of the Croatian Party's club that in such and similar situations it would go into a settlement procedure whether court or non-judicial settlements in order to finally begin to resolve the part because this creates additional costs of the procedure, that amount would be increasing with the words of regular and extraordinary, with interest that they would press, it is already somewhere over 11 billion kuna, in the meantime opening up other new disputes, and means only the State's attorney can't deal with it because the deputies of the state's attorneys are engaged in these and such procedures where they only buy time while other procedures stand on the other side where they have to protect the interests of the state. Therefore, it is also, we finally brought to the Croatian Parliament on Friday a declaration of condemnation of all crimes of communism. Me and us at the Croatian Party of Rights Club have received a large number of anonymous, criminal applications with a name and a last name where it is openly indicated what are and what crimes it has committed. That's what we've been forwarding to the State's Attorney's office. It is expected that these changes also contain such provisions where the State's Attorney's office will begin and such cases will be processed because we know that there is no statute of limitations, that it is criminal acts of genocide or already depends on what kind of crimes have been committed and that it is normal for the families of those who have been killed in such a way, to expect both the Croatian state and the official state to act if the State's Attorney's Office can be active in the persecution of Croatian defenders, then it may be in this part because it is the same description of the job. Therefore, we cannot simply go beyond all these situations, through what the Croatian public expects, and we cannot be satisfied with the situation in which it will always happen next, the State's Attorney's office will say, see, the police are filing criminal charges, they are not such a nature, and we cannot use a large number related to the procedure whether it is a criminal procedure or a procedure in part of the property, or a civil procedural nature. Then there will be another variant for you, the judiciary says hear me out of the State's Attorney's Office we get such unskilled indictments or indictments so that we can't take... and always one, the other or the third get away with not making this one, that the police didn't, or that they didn't, that the police say we didn't give the D.A.'s office anything, the court says that that's how it was done, he didn't have the proper regulations. [[You don't understand.]] So when we're finally going to have a debate like this one time, it means all of these are presented and put into a legal proposal that we can finally tell both the police and the State's Attorney's office and the judiciary. Here are the frameworks that you are constantly talking about, now finally show what the Croatian public and Croatian citizens expect and that you are doing your job, to sanction crime, and not to let people with countless criminal charges walk free, escape, or even escape from the country with the help of the police, and on the other hand we are conducting a legal state over the poor. You have seen the contribution of the New TV that part of "The Investigation" where the Green Mafia trades normally, and the police tend to drive whom, for example, the pensioners who sell shoes of old, pants or similar situations, and unfortunately the situation is increasingly that we are dealing with petty things and we are not dealing with, say, drug dealers who walked freely with Korčula, a drug dealer who sent a shower to both the Croatian government and the Croatian police and Croatian citizens. Therefore, if we will once begin to introduce order and answer for everything else, and we will continue to talk about such situations as Ruža, our Ruža Tomasic and everyone else are asking for the state to act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69359	Replica, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69360	Dear Mr. President, I am extremely pleased that my colleague Kovacevic mentioned Ruža Tomasic, because her civil gesture, courage and determination deserve great attention and I think that this House should also do something about it. If anyone this year deserves some form of reward from the Helsinki Committee and related organizations, it's her. And my question is Peri Kovacevic's antidote, we have a president of the SDP, who publicly boasted that he enjoyed marijuana, is not there, though, since you will fight addiction if you have leading political people in Croatia who are trying to get some political points thanks to that one weakness in human and dangerous social habits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69361	Dear Representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69362	Your Honor, Mr. President, Ms. Secretary with an associate. So here's the first thing that I would like to say, or the opening point, is that the need to adopt this regulation no doubt stems from the fact that the Law on the State's Attorney's Office itself, in terms of its application, has indeed pointed to the need to build up, on the one hand, new legal solutions, and on the other hand, the need to regulate so far existing legal institutes in a better and more precise way. Of course, all exposed to the context of the constitutional provision, Article 124. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which defines actually the State's Attorney's Office as a whole, is discussing its jurisdiction, so the State's Attorney's Office is authorised and obliged to act against the perpetrators of criminal and other criminal offences, but the State's Attorney's Office is obliged to take legal action in order to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia. The establishment, establishment, district and jurisdiction of the State's Attorney's Office is, of course, governed by this law, the Law on State's Attorney's Office. Second and therefore, the paper really needs to be particularly highlighted, in particular to highlight the development or legal provisions in the draft laws relating to the jurisdiction of the civil administration departments of the State's own Attorney's Office. It is indeed necessary to welcome, support the proposed solutions relating to the detailed regulation of the jurisdiction of the civil administration departments of state attorneys because they are now avoiding those situations that the State's Attorney's Office is dealing with its instructions. The competent State Attorney's Office shall represent the Republic of Croatia in all proceedings conducted to protect its property rights and interests, of course both before courts and other administrative and other bodies. In this regard, as a particularly important norm, I stress a solution under which the competent state attorney's office will have a duty in cases where property matters of particular importance for the Republic of Croatia or are extremely high values, and which must be denied, the claim of the opposing party should be accepted, a plea shall be concluded when it comes to the withdrawal of the legal medicinal product or an extra-parnical procedure shall take a decision which has the importance of giving up the right, therefore it is a duty to notify the State Attorney of the Republic of Croatia which, without delay, will inform the Government of the Republic of Croatia without its opinion. On the other hand, it is necessary to highlight that provision when the competent national authorities of the Republic of Croatia are also obliged before the conclusion of a legal transaction on acquisition or alienation of real estate to obtain an opinion on the legal validity of that legal transaction. Therefore, if only the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia does not give an opinion on the legal business itself within 30 days, it will be considered positive and there are no legal obstacles to the conclusion of the legal deal itself. Since it is the first reading, two questions are really being raised here, or whether it may be necessary to prescribe the obligation to give a legal opinion, so as an obligation, to set a precise deadline or to adhere to such a proposed solution. And the second question, so what about other forms of property that don't represent real estate. So it is with shares, shares and other forms of property which, of course, do not or do not represent real estate. Furthermore, in this context, it is necessary to support those solutions which determine that decisions by courts and administrative authorities and other letters must be delivered to the competent national attorney's office, otherwise they do not produce legal effects. In a procedural, legal and any other sense, I think it is very important to stress this proposed provision. Thirdly, as regards the new organisation of the State Attorney's Office itself, it should be noted that two new department structures should be singled out, on the one hand, the Department of Internal Affairs and, on the other hand, the Department of International Assistance and Cooperation. Namely, the Department of Internal Control, Education and Monitoring of Quality Legal and Other Experts in State Attorneys as a special organisational unit, in my opinion, should be seen unequivocally as an extremely good solution. In fact, the supervision of the work of state attorneys, the review of the overall work of district attorneys, the management of monthly and annual statistics and the care of professional training of state lawyers and so far, and in particular in the future, will be a mirror of the quality of the work of the state's attorney, considering its constitutional role as a whole. In that context, Article 2(2) of the proposed law should also be observed. In this regard, the Special Department for International Legal Assistance and Cooperation will make it possible to communicate and work further on the provision of legal assistance and work in the bodies of not only the Council of Europe but also on other inter-state institutions responsible, of course, for the prosecution of perpetrators of criminal offences. Furthermore, the proposed legal text elaborated on judicial inspection matters. Namely, judicial inspectors of the Ministry of Justice are carrying out direct insights, so direct insight into the work of the state's attorneys, of course, in the affairs of the judicial administration. The legal obligation to raise property cards or reports by state lawyers on their property and on the permanent incomes and assets of their spouse and underage children with specific provisions of the laws relating to the ethical code of state attorneys and deputy state attorneys are indeed the norms that will provide the state's attorney's office in the entire justice system but also to the Croatian society as a whole in the right way to ensure the position or role that this institution certainly deserves and deserved. In line with everything laid down in this law in the first reading, absolutely related to all proposed legal solutions should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69363	Thank you. The Honorable Vice-President of the House Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69364	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I will also support the amendment and addition of the Law on State Attorney's Office myself, and in this respect, regardless of some minor minor objections that can be put right in order to actually improve these amendments and additions to the law, I should commend the bill in all twelve points of the proposed amendments and additions. Why? Because it first introduces some new innovations from internal organisation and organisation related to internal control and supervision, then international co-operation, education, etc. to the issue of actual working discipline, responsibilities, dispute resolution and relation to relocation, report content and reports themselves, etc. Therefore, all of this should be supported and in that part should be kept in mind that the new solutions that are offered are very high quality. However, there are several things to be warned about first. First of all, the question arises whether education as such especially finishing courses cannot get a high grade or actually whether it can be a cause of progress or not. Doesn't mean someone's a great prosecutor because they finished class. The assumption is that the new education will give him more knowledge, skills and ability to perform his work better but to put that course issue is a condition of progress or not I think it should not be so strictly set but should be placed that it is one of the criteria of evaluation but is in no way exclusive in either positive or negative terms. The second remark I have in this section is related to Article 5, or where Article 15 is amended where paragraph 3 is said to represent the Republic of Croatia in all proceedings conducted in order to protect its property rights and interests against courts, administrative bodies and other bodies, if the law of the competent national authority does not provide otherwise. The constitution goes here a little differently asking a question. As a rule, the State Attorney's Office always represents the interests of the Republic of Croatia and protects its property and, of course, takes account of it because, in addition, the simplest fact is Article 124 in this respect, in this respect, paragraph 1, and read which it says: "The state's attorneyship is an independent independent judicial body authorised and obliged to act against the perpetrators of criminal and other criminal offences, to take legal action to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia, and to bring legal means to protect the Constitution and the law." It is therefore necessary to set up here if the law on the basis of the structure is to say when it is exceptional that the law may authorise another body to represent the interests of the Republic of Croatia and the protection of its property rights, etc. and not in this way set because it is practically alternative here. And it needs a little bit of my deep conviction to fix it and try to fix it. Furthermore, it is a very interesting solution in Article 6(5) where municipal state attorneys can, of course, go to the Administrative Court. But the question arises and what about the High Court of Commerce. Could they go there in certain situations when it comes to the protection of property rights and powers? I think that question should also be included in some way and that the issue should be resolved. A similar situation is particularly true, but now from another aspect of Article 7 where it is said that state attorneys can, on the basis of special powers, represent in civil administrative matters legal persons owned or mostly owned by the Republic of Croatia. Now I'm asking the question. For example, mostly owned is no longer the T-HT of the Republic of Croatia but is of interest to the Republic of Croatia. Could then, on the basis of special powers, the State Attorney's Office represent, or today if INA is sold, or if we are in a position to sell land of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia, etc. I think that these issues should still be reviewed until the second reading and should also be left in the situation when the Republic of Croatia has individual stakes regardless of the size of the share. If it is a legal person with an interest in the Republic of Croatia or an activity of interest in the Republic of Croatia, then the Republic of Croatia may request through the State's attorney to protect certain rights. In this context, it would be quite interesting to consider a particular issue which was covered here and where units of local and regional self-government to consider a specific issue which is covered here, where units of local and regional self-government would no longer have to and should finally be resolved in accordance with the Constitution. 'Cause I can't take any more... But you should also leave the possibility that units of local and regional self-government can from the State's Attorney's Office and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] to ask for it to represent him. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As minors on the market offer services that may appear. However, a specific question is now being raised. When it comes to border areas between units of local and regional self-government and state-owned, the state regarding areas of interest for the Republic of Croatia and for a single unit of local and regional self-government may then and in such a situation intervene the State's Attorney General and without the authority of the unit of local and regional self-government. Of course in order to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia, in the extreme line as... in a concrete dispute. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that this issue should be further considered until the final proposal, given that it is very important issues that will be. Take, for example, agricultural land and agricultural land provided by units of local self-government with prior consent, i.e. the opinion given by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. In such a situation, I'm sure some questions need to be resolved further, don't you think? In this respect, it should, in particular, be considered as well as this amendment and the addition of the law to the obligations of individual departments of the State Attorney's Office. So both criminal and property law. Not only as a method of work but also a legal obligation when they are obliged to inform each other, to exchange information on individual cases if at the same time of interest, the interest of the Republic of Croatia is needed to protect both the property and criminal interests of the Republic of Croatia in the pursuit of a criminal offence. And in a situation like this, I think it would be a good idea to discuss that part and take care of it further. The most interesting or one of the most interesting solutions for, which I like is the issue of an article on the security clearance where the candidate has the right to learn about the results in accordance with specific regulations if the verification procedure is prescribed. However, here I join those who claim that all those who have submitted to the competition should be covered by a simple check because the application for the competition itself is actually accepted and the procedure prescribed by the law that certain things can be checked. The second question is of course that in such a segment the possibility of each candidate being informed should be opened. And the third question that has been partly mentioned here, which is the question that can be, that the candidate can, of course, expose his opposition to such a check and based on facts and evidence that the verification may not have had, but... is the question how can he protect his right? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is not only a question of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, but this is a matter of the protection of human rights and of the freedom of man and citizen in all the procedures of the checks that take place and which have not been resolved by any law to the end. The question arises whether these security character checks have the character of the administrative act or do they not have the character of the administrative act and can slow down? On the basis of these checks, it is decided far-reachingly on individual issues and individual rights in certain procedures, competitions and so forth, and that it is practically except in this case where it can now presently expose the facts and arguments to the State's attorney, in fact, it does not have the opportunity to challenge these issues in view of the so-called. The secrecy, the covert checks, and I think that's not the secret of the covert checks. In civil society, citizens must be able to protect their rights unless such information is of interest to protect the defence and security of the Republic of Croatia. I don't think it's really about questions like that. It is necessary, therefore, to ensure first that all candidates who have applied for the competition are covered by the verification. And secondly, that everyone has the right to see the results of checking their personal, not others. Thirdly, that they may address a senior state attorney with an anti-arguments or facts covered by the implementing rules which claim that they are not true and, of course, the possibility that they may also have an administrative dispute to prove to the court that the issue is not competent. That should be reconsidered because it's a question that will certainly be... and which will eventually probably end up as a constitutional dispute as well, in a constitutional lawsuit before the Constitutional Court because a conflict over several matters is opening. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the one hand, all citizens are guaranteed access to all public services in accordance with the law, and on the other hand, you are effectively eliminating them. You cannot allow them in accordance with the Constitution to protect their rights against the competent judicial authority. So in such a situation it is obvious that there are some contradictions and therefore, regardless of all these objections which can help to be even better text in my court, I will support this proposal for a law in the first reading, and I hope that the Proposer will consider it, and these remarks to include them until the final proposal, draw up a final draft of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69365	Thank you. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69366	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, dear Madam Minister. Every law and procedure of adoption and after adopting it has its own shortcomings, holes, ambiguities or the possibility of different interpretations. And this debate... /The speaker has been excluded./...the possible problem of this Law, believing that you have proposed these changes in the best possible way, but I am not sure that you have removed one problem that is present in Croatia, and many people who work in the State's Attorney's Office have confirmed that it is true. When we discuss in this assembly, we often use examples of other people, other citizens, and I will be the one to tell you about in my own example that there will be credibility and that I am not hiding behind other people's problems. Mostly a few years ago, the president of a Roma association filed a criminal charges against me. That I spent their money unauthorized. Just three days after that, police inspectors visited me. I answered about 108 questions and photocopied 15 kilos of documents. They were correct, they did their job, and they left. After 30 days, I asked, "Okay, what next? How?" he says, "We came by order and request of the municipal state attorney, we finished the job and handed the report to him. And that's what was ours." I called the municipal state attorney and asked, "When will I get the indictment?" He says, "Never." Okay. "And when will I get the paper that there will be no indictment?" he says, "Never." "I'm sorry, I don't understand. How?" "Mr. Lesar, you were not a party to the procedure." I said, "Wait for how criminal processing has now been carried out," I quote "and the accused and I was actually suspected of the crime of abuse of official office, theft of money, non-intentional spending of money." There were six points. "No, you are not a party to the procedure." "And who is the party to the procedure?" He says, "He who has submitted the request to launch and determine... ""And what now?" he says, "Nothing, I told you there was nothing." But I would like the paper, because the public was informed that I was suspected of stealing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have neither the practice of quoting nor the practice nor the legal obligation to give you one piece of paper that you did not commit a crime. I couldn't believe it. I thought the law was wrong, so I asked all the relevant addresses and laws and it really is today the State's Attorney's Office, municipal, county and here in Zagreb citizens against whom criminal charges have been filed after the completion of the citation of criminal processing and the determination of the facts of the situation have not been issued any document showing that after the case has been processed it has been found that there are no elements of the crime. The fact that the rise, or conduct of criminal processing, was in public, is that the procedure was said to have nothing to do with it. After that you can only have the strength of your argument to tell people they've processed me and I'm not guilty. Now, I believe, and I know that the state's attorneys are buried with a large number of anonymous reports, that they're acting immediately without wanting to get into a situation without reacting to unwanted consequences. I know they have a lot of work to do. I know they especially react when people are known to the public and that's all, but I just can't believe that even now this novel of the law, by changing what we're doing again to the citizens, the citizens of this country who are proven not guilty we're not going to give a single piece of paper and say we're done and we're done ok. so I kindly ask you not for yourself because such cases have been very much known to some public, some unknown that until the second reading and final text of the law resolve this problem in the law that simply can't be the fact that after the end of the procedure and the adoption of the law of the State's Attorney's Office, the document only gets the applicant, and not the person who was the subject of criminal processing. Society is sensitive to such things. Especially because of the possibility of anonymous reports, imaginary accusations are caused by enormous damage to people who later do not have any means, mechanisms to explain to the public what it is. I believe that one provision in the law and one piece of paper that the attorney's office would issue to such a man would not be too much of a cost to the state budget and a great burden on the state's attorney himself would be enough. This is my appeal to you, Madam Minister, that in this law we now take advantage of this situation and let no more, and often the reasons and motives of submitting anonymous applications are just discredition. It is not important to complete the procedure, it is important that it be branded as a potentially possible suspect at the beginning of the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69367	Thank you. Replica. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69368	Well, it's legal to say exactly what the esteemed colleague Lesar said, but he forgot one other part. Because it was a criminal report, so she was going to the State's Attorney's office probably, she asked the police to act, so regardless of all the facts in your police file, the fact that a criminal application was filed against you, and that means the next time you talk about that security check, when it comes to security checks, then they first enter the police base. And now that part of you, even though you don't have any responsibility, was an anonymous criminal application, but if one day they're doing a security check, it's going to be minus because the police have recorded that you've been charged with criminal charges. This is the whole problem, and this needs to be resolved, so not only within the Law on this, and to order the police to delete it from the record in such cases. Because every time something happens, they're gonna tell you and he's a suspect, or whoever's already been a criminal, you know how it's already going in that sense. So it's a good example just doesn't know what to do with the money later.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69369	Yeah, yeah. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69370	Comrade Kovacevic, thank you very much for extending this possible problem in police files. You know, when that kind of stuff in a man's file is written to a man, then he can be happy. Because the more such reports of non-determination of committing a crime means that you have good indifferences to do so and should really consider the obligation to delete such filed criminal charges from the citizens' files especially in the police. Because, you know, times change, authorities change, political situations change. A man is never sure when it can be used or abused. And what about the money that I got the state's attorney's answer then you could now document what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69371	Thank you. Final review by Justice Minister Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69372	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here I thank everyone for contributing to this debate on the amendment and addition of the Law on the State's Attorney's Office in first reading. Both the ministry as a promoter and the government will take into account all the observations made mainly and most of them are heading towards improvements in the proposed text. Still under the impression of Agent Lesar's exposés probably many here have experience with anonymous criminal charges and I've heard one remark from the bench here is not that you're not guilty, but there's not enough evidence that's very ugly and what's left. But unfortunately, it's not the subject of this law, it's the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Law on the Police, through which we could really handle it mainly because anonymous applications are very often the subject of personal accounts, and somehow it's not a democratic achievement that everyone is innocent until proven otherwise, but is very happy to be found guilty immediately. We had on behalf of the HSP Club one quite explicit question as to whether the State's Attorney's Office will continue to act on the official duty of prosecution and on the preservation of property. Of course he will. This must, even now under current law and by a clear constitutional definition, which states that the State Attorney's Office is an independent, independent judicial body authorised and obliged to act against the perpetrators of criminal and other criminal offences and to take legal action in order to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia. So, fellow Kovacevic according to the constitutional provision, it must, and the report on the work of the State Attorney's Office was here in front of this Croatian Assembly and was accepted almost unanimously as much as I remember. So unless we're satisfied with it today, we'll probably show it in this year's report. Of course, you repeated in your breakout hearing, 80 and how many criminal charges, 90. This is why amendments and additions to the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Law on Police are being made, since in these cases it is extremely important to investigate and investigate the case for the purpose of ensuring and collecting evidence because it usually falls in court when there is insufficient evidence, although it is a matter of particular actions. The issue of security clearance has been raised on several occasions. I think these remarks should be taken into account, therefore, that the security check should be not at the discretion of the State Attorney but for every reported candidate for a state's attorney's office, and why, with the application, so the Security Service Act also requires their consent to a security check, and consent is simply required for transparency not to say that people are being checked somewhere behind their backs and secrets, but that they know that they will be screened and certainly that each person is serious and agrees to that security check. There have been comments from the SDSS representatives that it may not be necessary to abolish the power of attorney for local and regional units because it will cost them money so many small units and have no funds. I note that even so far, the State's Attorney General has not represented free local and regional units but has paid representation fees under the law. The reference will also be made to the observations and I think it should be taken into account, and this is an observation on the direct supervision of the Ministry of Justice and lower state attorneys that the ministry can do so directly and not through the senior State Attorney's Office and we will also consider this observation on the availability of property cards to the public both in the case of state lawyers and in the case of judges, for reasons why we do not see it as not being as in the case of all other officials. This amendment of the SDP club, I did not fully understand the opposition in Article 69, which determines which data are secret for the reasons why here we have heard that this basic text of the law is actually from the era of the coalition government that it is excellent and that these improvements, is identical to the text in the basic law regarding the fact that state attorneys and their deputies that the secret information they provide is identical, this identical substantiation has been transmitted to the new text as well as to what is added to this law, the protection of the confidentiality of data in the case of minors and minors, so on youth and progress of this law is as far as it will no longer be subject to the Internal Affairs Regulation to determine what is the secret already laid down by law, and the regulation will only establish the way of keeping business secrets. It was presented on property cards, but I don't think Mr. Leco saw in the transitional provisions that he was a duty and for the already appointed state's attorneys, so that's how we corrected what we missed in the Law of Courts. There have been talks about peaceful dispute resolution, this is what the Ministry of Finance and the government has just encouraged, that wherever we can try to make big disputes with the state in a peaceful way, but this is about inherited commitments that were made before this government and that there was no overlap in the budget towards kidnapping, but certainly because of the burden of the courts and because of the unnecessary increase in financial commitments it should be resolved by a peaceful means. And there was one more thing, someone said in the debate that the State's Attorney's Office was stalking Croatian defenders. In no way is that nor should it be said anywhere, the State's Attorney's Office is persecuting persons who are found to have committed a crime, so in this case this war crime, and certainly the State's Attorney's Office must act against all such perpetrators of a crime, no matter what age they were still alive because it did not take place in this war crimes case it does not represent the statute of limitations. It is also necessary to consider the observation and will likely be incorporated into the final text of the law by the commentator Tomljenović, who is asking what is with the consent to contracts of great value if it is not about real estate, and the values are often much bigger than the shotgun of real estate and also the comments and improvements and the development of representation issues with companies and companies in the majority or owned state, so this really needs to be worked out and we will do so until the second reading. Here's another thank you for the debate, for the proposals for a solution that we're going to put into the final text of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69373	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Attorney's Office. I am voting on the following conclusion: "The proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Please vote. Let's get on with it. The result? 77 votes to, 7 abstentions, 8 against the accepted proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69376	Thank you. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Law on Public Literature entered into force in September 93, and this law is a fundamental document that returns to the Croatian legal system more than 50 years later. Today, 259 public notebooks work in the Republic of Croatia. Their number, seat and number is determined by the regulations on official seat of public notebooks. There are 316 public places in total, and today it works as I have already said, 259 public notebooks and 181 public notary. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Literature proposed by the Government is going towards technical changes and some major amendments to the Law. In the course of the 10-year application of this Act, provisions have been laid down which, due to the inaccuracy, inaccuracy and poor technical arrangements, have created difficulties for public notaries and have led to a different level of conduct when drawing up and issuing similar public records and carrying out other public records, as well as the different conduct of supervisory and other bodies when deciding on the rights and obligations of the public notary. Therefore, this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Literature sought primarily to remove the perceived inaccuracies and inaccuracies of certain provisions, as well as to build up legal solutions, given the new tasks entrusted to public notaries. Inheritance law, therefore, and the executive law. The relevant amendments to this Act are that since the number of public notebooks and public office seats was established in 1994, criteria are needed to determine the number of public notaries according to the number of inhabitants in a given area, according to the degree of economic development and legal traffic, and for the reason that public notaries are now acting in executive procedures on the basis of a credible document, and in accordance with the Law on Inheritance and Disputable Leaven Procedures. New powers and increased scope of business impose the need to increase the number of public notebooks in a particular official area. Therefore, these amendments and additions suggest that the Ministry of Justice, respecting the development of the economic and financial market, can also determine a greater number of public places than has now been established, i.e. in a particular area, to reduce the number of public places. Here I refer to this particular information that I read at the outset, which shows that 316 public places that are set out in the regulations on official public notebooks have obviously not come to life. So that, as I would say, the economic development of certain parts has led to the fact that we have 259 public notebooks only compared to 316 envisaged, and that this disproportionate number and traffic and certain areas have been resolved through public records where, then, in certain public places other than the notaries have worked. This Law also proposes that the conditions for the appointment of public notebooks are prescribed in such a way that this service is accessible to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia on equal terms. Which means that an advantage has been excluded in the appointment of public notebooks for public notifiers. As regards the prescribed conditions to be met by the candidates, the number of years required is reduced in such a way that it can be appointed as a public notary of persons 5 years of employment following a judicial examination. The deadline is now reduced to 3 years in legal affairs, which brings that condition closer to some conditions for judges who are 2 years for court advisers, or 4 in other legal matters. The Law also abolished the obligation that the candidate must have equipment and space when applying for a public notary. That made it difficult for the candidates because more candidates would apply. Everyone had to secure the space and equipment in advance, and they were often not appointed, so now it is necessary to commit themselves and to make a statement that they would provide space and equipment for the public record office. Up until now, the Law on Literature has not been limited to the number of public records. These amendments and additions propose to limit the number because in certain public records offices, 2 or more public notaries are employed and thus the creation of large public records offices in which the citizen loses contact with the public notary because the public notary transfers his public records to the neighbours. The importance of the Law is that the public notary be the bearer of the function of the public service, not to pass it on to other persons. In the end, the state is and gives confidence to the public notary when it conveys it, in fact, part of its work. It is therefore proposed that these amendments be laid down by the Law so that no more than 2 public notaries can be employed in a public record office, which can be a guarantee that even in developed economic, financial, legal and other places, citizens will be able to meet the requirements. So far, public record offices have had employees, public record practitioners, and graduate lawyers with a judicial exam, whose status has not been determined. In view of the fact that the Law has laid down the tasks carried out by a public notary and an apprentice, and has not set out the tasks carried out in the public record office by a graduate lawyer with a judicial examination as well as his powers, these amendments suggest that such graduate lawyers be given the status of a public notary advisor as a legal solution as a model to judicial advisers, and here are state counselling. It is also proposed that the public office may be employed by a public commentary. This Law also proposes that legal persons representatives, i.e. their pronouns, may deposit signatures with the public notary. So far, it has been an established practice and it has been done in public records offices, but it has not been regulated by law, so we think it should be regulated by these amendments and additions. As regards the responsibilities of public notaries, the Ministry of Justice had no power to initiate a disciplinary procedure against public notebooks, although the Law of the Ministry of Justice authorised the Ministry to exercise control over the work of the public notary. Under the current Law to launch the disciplinary procedure, Croatia's public records chamber, the Law, a certain state's attorney and damage. Given that the Ministry of Justice is overseeing the work of the public notary, these amendments suggest that the Ministry of Justice be empowered to launch a disciplinary procedure against the public notary. In the end, the disciplinary procedure for irregularities as well as for the disciplinary offence of the public notary is carried out by the Croatian public records chamber, i.e. the disciplinary council and the competent disciplinary investigator, but the Disciplinary Procedure and Prosecuted Disciples of the Ministry have no knowledge, and therefore it is proposed that the disciplinary bodies are obliged to initiate a disciplinary procedure and to report to the Ministry of Justice on the grounds of the Law on Public Note to the Ministry that the discharge procedure of the public notary is carried out. Ladies and gentlemen, these are short amendments to the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69377	Thank you. The Justice Committee, President-in-Office of the Honorable Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69378	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Minister, Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. At its 42nd session held on 29 June 2006, the Court of Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Literature, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 14 June 2006. The Committee discussed the cases of the law on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. The Proposer's introductory representative pointed out that the proposal in question regulates that the Ministry of Justice may increase, i.e. reduce the number of notebooks, suggest a limit on the number of public note-holders and determines the status of employees in the public record office. In the debate, the members of the committee supported the bill with the following opinions, proposals and remarks. It is proposed to review in detail the existing criteria for the determination of the number of public notebooks in a given area by analysing the existing situation and analysing the financial indicators of the work of the public notaries. The opinion is that the proposed amendments need to open up competition in the work of public notebooks and a detailed analysis of all segments of the normative arrangement of this extremely important proposal and the precise regulation of the responsibilities of public notebooks is proposed. Following the debate, the Committee on Justice unanimously proposed the following conclusions by 7 votes to the Croatian Parliament. First, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Literature is adopted. Second, all comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Literature will be addressed to the Proposer in order to draw up a final proposal for the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69379	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HDZ Club, Honored Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69380	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister. We have before us a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Literature. Public notation is an institution with which each of us, quite certainly and our citizens, is very often fortunate because we always go to the Public Note Office when we go to verify some kind of signature on some sort of correction, we always go when we have to legalize some previously signed document and then very often we do, and we say we used to do these signatures and we did those certificates in those former municipal secretariats, and it didn't cost anything, and look how much it costs now. It's one thing that our citizens meet very often, but I don't think we can just look through it. The notebook is a very important institution that I would say has contributed largely to one culture of business, one better functioning of the rule of law and one legal certainty. In what way? So let's just combine how very often our business people either as craftsmen, either as head of companies do and do business. Somewhere along the lamb at lunch they agree, they don't, of course, write the obligations in real contract in real form, but they make arrangements, I'll do you a favor like this, it costs so much, and it's all wonderful and wonderful, but then we get into trouble, someone doesn't meet something, and what does it come up with? There's a trial going on, we're bringing witnesses, we're hiring experts, we're hiring the judiciary, and we're actually hiring a whole state apparatus from a business relationship. However, if a public notary is correctly used, if institutions that actually allow our legislation are used, then this business relationship can be resolved much faster. This means, if a contract is written, if a specific and clear means of insurance are indicated in the contract for the performance of that contract, if we come to the notary, and the notary solifies that contract and puts the performance clause of that contract, then business entities do not have to be tried, they do not have to pursue endless litigations and prove their claims but go to that final stage of the procedure, they go directly to the end. It seems to me that our market is best recognised by business banks, and that's how it works. There is no loan without a solimnized contract, no fiduciary, no purchase of a car until such a thing is done, but all together it is true that it costs, however, to contribute to one greater legal certainty, yet one more quality business on our market. The Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the proposal to amend these laws because we believe that those fundamental institutes that want to be implemented through the amendments to this Act, which is not big, we don't want mega offices, we don't want small administration factories, but we want one appropriate public record offices that will have two neighbours at most and that will really meet their basic legal definition, and that is that they are not party representatives, but they are commissioners of the parties and, of course, they are in major notable offices where when the party comes, when the head of the company comes and neither sees the notary but contacts exclusively with the neighbour, they are somewhat actually going into another plan. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community Club considers this to be one of the most significant changes proposed here and, of course, we support it. It is also very important, and it is related to this that it is actually abolished in some way a privilege in the appointment of public notebooks which so far had neighbours and in some ways, if it was one privilege we slowly close that circle of people who deal with this business and prevent some who can also be quality and good at it tomorrow. So I think these are very good changes, too. Moreover, as regards the relationship between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice, it is quite logical to inform the Ministry of Justice of the strict procedure and the measures put forward by it, it is necessary and necessary to inform the Ministry of Justice. There is a practical provision that is also good and related to the tender procedure and application for appointment for a public notary relating to space. So far, it has been all those who have competed, all who have asked for the authority to be public notebooks, that they have secured a business space either owned or leased, which, of course, required certain costs for such candidates, and now the proposal for this law introduces a more practical solution and that means that one who is appointed undertakes to provide those conditions within a certain time. Also, given the number of business events that occur in a particular environment, we think that it is a good authority given to the Ministry of Justice that regarding changes in a particular environment, the number of business events that can be changed, that it can also name new public notaries if it is shown by the number of cases that it has justifications. The Croatian Democratic Community Club believes that the amendments to this law because the law was passed in 93 and entered into force in 94, will contribute to a better performance of these tasks because a series of provisions are also harmonised with both the Constitution and the law. Let us not forget that, in a few years, we have seen a lot of these powers that the state has passed on to public notebooks, and about the powers to act in hereditary matters, we have also seen the latest amendments to the Implementing Law, and we have also passed on significant powers to public notebooks and that is an institution to be developed because it contributes in any case to legal certainty and better functioning of the rule of law. This is a very good text of the amendment that is here to the second reading, with certain finer and less nomotechnical corrections, I think it's completely satisfactory. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69381	Thank you. The IDS Club is a respected representative of Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69382	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Minister, And only two sentences about this law. By 1993, as Mr. Bosnjakovic mentioned, as Mr. Bosnjakovic did not have a tradition of public records, and it is logical that after 13 or 12 years, the law adjusted to the current moment because life in those thirteen or twelve years has changed significantly, it has become somewhat more dangerous, it has become less humane, the opportunities are less social and the individual institutes that we do not have today. However, if we didn't pass this by my court, the necessary law wouldn't be tragic in Croatia, nothing would have changed, nothing would have happened. Life would go on and on. But something else matters. It's public-book tariffs. They're exaggerated, they're absurd, they literally tear the skin off Croatian citizens. The most painful caste of Croatian citizens not to say the most greedy today is the public notebooks and lawyers of the Hague indictees. So, the Croatian Parliament should first amend the Law on Public-Booking Tariff in a way that charges all of these in half at the very least, it should do so immediately now and then go into writing one of these laws. So in no way can this law be a priority, it can wait, but the Law on Public-Booking Taxes or those tariffs must change urgently. What does it look like? For example, Article 5 when the prize is determined according to value is determined according to the value of the subject-matter of the public-booking service, etc. and then the value of the public-mark stock burden is determined according to the value of those of mutual practices which is more valuable. Of course. The value of the thing is its market value, so it is said in the acquisition with compensation is the applicable level of counterproduction unless the market value of things is higher. Of course, it's good for them. In the case of a lease and lease contract, the value shall be determined according to a one-year lease or lease unless it is a short-term lease or lease relationship. They're always going towards that higher price. The value of the company’s establishment contract shall be determined according to the total value of the investment of all members. If the stake is a defined business activity, the drive and similar value shall be determined according to the amount of the assets and the activity reduced for the liabilities it charges. It is incomprehensible that such a provision may be in that law. In the case of a change in the contract for the establishment of a company, the value of the transaction is determined by the size of the change in respect of the property of the company reduced by the liabilities. If the change concerns a certain amount of cash, that amount shall be relevant. Always clearly higher. Then, setting the prize according to the value of the subject of the public-book act there are points, up to 5,000 kuna 25 points. That should be multiplied by ten, so that's 250 kuna. As a rule, it's legal business from 50 to thousands. Any such act is simply paid with a thousand or I don't know how many kunas. Gentlemen, in one word, what is happening in that segment is at least excessive. Before we heard from the minister that 316 notary offices could be opened in Croatia, that at this point we have 259 if I wrote this information correctly. Thus, someone might even conclude that they do not give God a bad position because they are not enough. But I repeat, tariffs should be reduced at the moment. Maybe you could even say about that caste that there are few but those who dove is extremely large. So the first thing that needs to be done is to cut those tariffs, so come out to meet clearly the citizens of this country. And secondly, to increase that number of public notebooks to come "to such competition" because this no longer makes sense to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69383	Thank you. Respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic on behalf of the SDP Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69384	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. President, the honourable minister with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues! This Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Literature contains a whole series of amendments that improve the work of literature. However, there is one change that is inadmissible and makes changes to the SDP Club cannot vote for such changes. In fact, I will immediately say that it is a special now power of the Ministry of Justice itself that when it comes to it, the truth here is told in accordance with the law, by certain criteria, but these criteria can also be a rubber provision. So, apart from the relevant data and other than the exact data, which is the number of inhabitants in a given area now only the Ministry will be able to determine, it gives itself the right to determine how much economic power is in a given area and can only increase or reduce the number of public notes. So far, it could only have been done under the law. Of course most people can change the law every once in a while. But no, the promoter considers this a right to hire people as public notebooks, and there have already been a lot of words and animosities here from fellow Caine to this service. Why is this so important that it doesn't happen? Because this service, even though it fills in time the tasks entrusted to it by law, why not enjoy trust among citizens? Well, it's a good part because of the one that's a little bit of couscous and not the detail of a colleague of Cain. So in these changes, we must do everything possible to make that animosity that exists against this service diminish, that this service may gain that trust because, on behalf of that trust, the state has given it these powers and not in this way. With such amendments to the law that the Ministry of Justice alone or the Minister of Justice is empowered to reduce or increase the number of public notebooks in a particular place raises suspicion and suspicion of objectivity. After all, what will the minister and such authority do? Even if the most conscious use is going to be an objection. Because there aren't any control mechanisms right now, did it really happen if necessary? And that is the need to open up new public places and new ones, and a larger number of public notebooks that is beyond any doubt. Beyond any doubt, a significant part of the work was transferred to public records back in 2002 and 2003. So has anyone heard from anyone since that he's had any leftover problems, any desert debates? It's not. It's happened back a whole series of years ago. And it works fine. I mean, no backlogs at all. It is a shame that the 2003 Act of Conduct was not applied, but that the Ministry was wandering for two and a half years whether to give public notaries an additional job or not? However, after two and a half years when we could have and a significant dispensation of the judiciary comes still with the transfer of business to the public notaries but only to, due to a credible ID. That is, on the basis of a credible document, which is devastating for the citizens for whom the exercise continues to be an insurmountable other case, but when the state or public enterprises are facing that citizen, then it acts quickly and efficiently. Not to mention banks and other financial institutions that don't even have to deal with this stuff at all and not this expressive because they've been secured by fiduciation. We welcome this provision, which limits the number of public notary neighbors. The fact is that many public notebooks were almost no longer working in their public record office, but the work was done by increasing the number of public notaries who could completely replace it. But the point of public records is direct contact with the party. Of course, he needs it just for rest and for the greater number of jobs a public notary has, and a public record neighbor. But I'm saying the point of public records is lost in a way that the number of public notary neighbors was not limited. However, what was not done and what was to be done and what encouragement was certainly coming from the notaries themselves to the Ministry and even to the Public Bookmark Chamber and this, when I mention the public record chamber, it would be interesting to look at how much it is and in what cases the Ministry of Justice listened to the opinion of the Public Bookmark Chamber that a certain person was appointed as a public notary. In the last two and a half years, not once. I don't know what it's like right now at this point. So you should see why there is no public, public-booking chamber opinion accepted? And in any case, if the ministry or resolution minister disagrees with the opinion of the Public Bookmark Chamber, it would be quite logical to make such a decision in this regard and explain it. However, the Public Bookmark Chamber has been ignored, I say for the past two and a half years, that no proposal has been proposed, which therefore causes suspicion and suspicion as to the name of the public notebooks? And so, rather than working out transparency mechanisms here, this additionally gives power to the Ministry or to the Secretary-General that he can therefore not only choose people now but also, which is nothing bad if this is done in one transparent way and with the opinion of the Public Bookmark Chamber which must then be founded rather than determine or reduce the number of public places. But something that needs to be done and what I think is precisely in order to gain confidence and remove sodium from the public against this important and important service is to introduce quotas. That's what the vast majority of public notebooks are looking for. He doesn't ask for those 15% of the notebooks I hope my colleague Cain spoke of, but also no, it's a shame he was talking about the whole and all of his public notation because it doesn't stand. What you said to your colleague, and what my colleague said at the SDP Club, we think it could only apply to 15% of those who work and live in an environment that exclusively has large banks, bigger, stronger businesses. And not on behalf of those who barely make ends meet because they don't have any entry jobs like this. Few of us who haven't met with this service at least that's when he bought a car on loan or on leave. It was addressed to a specific public notary. It is something that the Law on Public Literature excludes and treats as serious, as a serious offense and a violation of discipline. But that's what's happening. The Ministry of Justice may not only be a good part of these matters, or a strong responsibility, is being carried out by the Public Note Chamber. But precisely in the law because it is a notorious fact that it is hard to now jump to the end is precisely that a system and a system of quotas such as almost all the countries that have a public notary is introduced and that jobs are evenly distributed to all public notaries. In such a way, the best part of the paid jobs such as those that have the OU code in the public notebook so that one notary would not have 3,000, and the other barely 300 were all trained under the same conditions and all of them as good court personnel, of which this service was recruited and entered public records. Therefore, it is also to enable further education and equal professional opportunities for all public notebooks who could in such a way, not only can they but also be obliged to attend seminars and conventions. Therefore, to be precisely within such and mandatory minimum quotas, this would mean that with such redistribution and compulsory quota introduction, 5 hundred new jobs would be opened, which is certainly not few. Based on the results achieved last year, here in one city, in one of our larger cities as they write to us public notebooks, and ultimately Croatia's public record chamber owns analytical data for each notary, and thus for each city a quota was allocated that could break through as anywhere in the world, in Europe on its own for plus or minus 5%, and then be sent to the next fellow who has not yet reached that intended level. In addition to these five hundred jobs for officials, three hundred jobs for the legal profession would be opened in this way. Not just for the neighbors, and now you limit the number which is good, but for new places, but also for public record trainees. This would also introduce a unique working time for party reception. So the sodium that now exists with this one even distribution of work because we see that good intentions were also in the existing law. It doesn't change now, but since practice says something else, and since there is a ministry, it can get that information from the Public Bookmark Chamber itself. So, in the SDP, we plead until the second reading, so to make one more significant step in this regard, and especially since public notebooks expect a whole series of additional jobs probably both about calming down and why not. But if I told you jobs were evenly distributed by the quota system so that citizens would be satisfied and I say that degree of trust that is very important for each public service and on my own for public records, I think it would be at one larger and each case quite a bit. Finally, they would also reject the objections to favouring certain notebooks. I will recall once again on behalf of the SDP Club those situations when the transfer of desert items, undisputed abandoned items to public notebooks began. So it went perfectly, quite fine by certain criteria, how the law predicted it and under the laws. However, we already have an objection to the SDP Club coming from the public notaries themselves that already, that this system of equality has been violated, that already some of the courts are getting more complicated and some simpler objects and all are equally tariffd. Therefore, the most difficult thing to respond to about these contentable objections may be to establish this kind of justice and justice. But the weight of the task in any case is no reason to give up the solution to this problem. Simple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69385	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69386	Says Mrs. Anticevic I'm expressing some animosity towards the public notebooks. God forbid, I'd say Kramaric, but to skin the Croatian citizens and that the tariffs are absurd they are. Ask the citizens. They are transformed in the right sense into the most greedy caste, and this can only be solved by reducing tariffs. You mentioned yourself that notebooks don't work with parties. So why aren't they working? Well, because they need a little time to spend the money. So the solution is to cut tariffs. There are 50,000 leftover items in Croatia. The value of the dispute shall be determined on the basis of the assets. So are we aware of where this policy and the writing of tariffs that the notebooks themselves write, and we adopt simply water for them?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69387	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69388	The Rules of Procedure of Article 209 were broken by fellow Cain. He was correcting, no, you don't. So what are you, his lawyer? Don't give a shit in the middle of this! Well, he was correcting something I didn't say at all. So to further spread your demagogy. Because public notebooks don't set a tariff. Why didn't you take care.../The speaker went off and turned it back on./... So I was just talking about the problem facing public notation and correcting a whole series of injustices that citizens are experiencing as injustices, but also some public notebooks versus other public notebooks.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69389	According to my assessment, Agent Cain didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure. If you disagree, let the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system take it into account. Don't do this to me! Since you agree with my opinion, then there will be no need to give the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You agree because you've remained silent and you agree with that... Honorable representative Jozo Radoš for the Club of HNS Representatives. [[/Intruder Antičević, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69390	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. While we are often ruled by the so-called Parliament. Normative optimism, which means more laws are passed more often than should be hoped that laws will change everything, and it is not the law especially not the bad law that can do it. This law is an example of normative pessimism. For 12 years, this law has not changed. In the meantime, much has happened, and the law was likely to have a few changes over the past 12 years. In the meantime, several laws have changed which directly concern this law, i.e. the work of public notaries, the Law on Inheritance which gave them greater powers, the executive law which also passed some powers, or jurisdiction, have changed the Family Law, and therefore this law has not changed for a full period of 12 years, and it would certainly be good that this law also followed the processes that took place with other laws, but also that it also followed the number of public notes in the Republic of Croatia, because it is almost impossible for the first time that the number of public places to be hit immediately by an optimal number. It should have been if for no other reason, then it might have introduced some new criteria when it might have been seen that these criteria that are indirect are not exactly the best criteria. But I actually support the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party of this change, but I would like to warn of one of the most important issues, which is precisely the issue of the number of public notaries, i.e. the number of public notes. It would be good for us to have an analysis of the work of public records offices along with this bill of law. What my colleague Cain was saying is about some, I guess some public notaries who are in a position to make really extremely high money, but it's not about some other public notebooks that aren't able to do that, I guess it would be a good idea if we had a view of the public record offices here. This is a real opportunity. We have no other opportunities in the Croatian Parliament to discuss this. What is the scope of their jobs, the number of cases solved, the number of their incomes, the number of employees, etc. in order to be able to speak more metrically about the need to increase the number of public records offices. I, of course, can only speak on a flat-rate basis about this without these data, and that means that in the meantime there has been an increase in the scope of the business by changing these two laws, so part of the executive procedures, part of the succession procedures, and then part of the business related to the issue of book-keeping certificates. This, in the meantime, has become a public notary's jurisdiction, and it is normal to increase the number of public records offices just for that reason. I, as an agent, referred the question to the Ministry of Justice, so they said an increase is being prepared, i.e. an analysis and an increase in public places, and I am sorry that it has not been done now. If it's true, and I think it's true that some public notebooks actually behave more like entrepreneurs not as public notebooks and that's not the idea of their appointment. They have some kind of monopoly and therefore this monopoly needs to be limited especially where business shows that they make a very good living, of course in this process, and this problem can be intervened through public note tariffs, but it can also be through this law and therefore there are two possibilities for intervention. One is to increase the number of public places, and the other is to limit the number of employees they can have in their public records offices. And, of course, the fundamental purpose of all of this is that the number and network of public notebooks are more developed so that the public notary, given the increased needs that the citizen has towards him, would be more accessible to that citizen that is the fundamental meaning of change and that is why I think it is good to think about it, but I'm not sure that the way the ministry has approached this problem is good. I believe that the number of public notebooks that are trying to determine here would be through Article 8 and that means the arbitration decision of the Ministry of Justice and, somewhere, the Minister of Justice, if it is not a matter of setting public places, that this would be much more correct by the procedure of amending Article 16 when it comes to the criteria for setting public records. If there was an increase in the scope of public records, then it would be logical to put these criteria into law, so that it is no longer, for example, 20,000 inhabitants, but that is 10,000 inhabitants, it is very logical that it would be so. Of course, the question of those uninhabited parts of the Republic of Croatia again leaves the question of what, in these cases, some exceptions can be made, but if there is going to be an increase in public notebooks, it must not be a free assessment of the Minister of Justice, it should be in line with the criteria set by this law and it is therefore more logical to amend Article 16 to reduce the number of people who belong to them, introduce some other criteria which would then allow that appointment to be in accordance with the law and to exclude as much arbitration as possible of the Minister of Justice in these matters. I therefore propose that the criteria for increasing the number of public places should be laid down in the Law in Article 16 rather than given in as a possibility for the Minister of Justice to have a flat-rate judgment based on the powers which we are now laying down for him in Article 8 of this Law. So these are the fundamental things that this law is talking about when it comes to changing this law. We have here quite shyly constrained the creation of a mega office, the conversion of a monopoly that someone has and someone doesn't have, the question is whether that monopoly is in the right way someday. We tried to limit it in only one way, which is by limiting the number of public notary presidents to two, and the question is why not to limit the number of public notary advisors and public notary practitioners. A public-marker advisor and a trainee who passed a judicial exam of his own quality can be equal to a public-book president and here we do not have a limit of numbers or public-book advisers or public-book practitioners. The number of public-book presidents, as the law suggests, should be limited to two, as well as the number of public-book advisers and the number of public-book trainees. I am opening another question here in this sense to prevent the creation of a mega office with a monofilament position, that the number and advisors, both the president and the trainees, may even be limited to one. This would be closer to the fundamental intensity of this law and the fundamental intensity of this law is that the public notary appointed is doing the job and not only to be a manager or entrepreneur in such an important branch as the judiciary and that is, the administration of this country. So that's the idea of the Justice Department to think about whether we should limit it. So, I'm sure you should limit both the number and the advisors and the trainees and perhaps you should go even more drastically in that regard, so that the number and the advisors and the trainees, and limit the president to one so that both the public notary and those several graduate lawyers with a passed judicial exam do their job and not to do business and behave entrepreneurially in something where a state protects and gives a monopoly. That doesn't make sense. And that's why these measures should be introduced. Of course, as soon as those measures are followed, an increase in public-booking sites or the number of public notebooks should be followed. And finally a few more very practical remarks. In heading VIII. If an adviser is already introduced as a new institution and I think it is a good solution and the counselor is a former trainer then it would be logical to list him in the title of that head and in all other references you list immediately behind the counselor and not behind the trainees. If there's a public notary, president, counselor and trainee, not a trainee and counselor, it's absolutely not logical, so I suggest that it changes logically. And another question I'm going to ask in my first reading will be enough for the Justice Department. When it comes to the legal position of public-book presidents, advisers and trainees, Article 126 of the Law states that they are determined in accordance with the courts, thus establishing a parallel between judicial advisers and public-book advisers, court practitioners and public-book practitioners but also concerns the president. And as we know in court, there are no presidents as far as I know, so if that's the case, that Article 126(6) should formulate differently. It reads, "In the legal position of public-book presidents, advisers, trainees, the rules on judicial advisers and trainees are properly applied" and there are no court presidents anywhere. Therefore, it is not logical to regulate the legal position of public-book presidents referred to in this Article 6 of Article 126. So we think that this law should have been amended, it had to be changed before, there was certainly a need for that, a lot of it happened. Of course, there is a need to increase the number of public notebooks and their places. That service should be made closer to the citizens. This is of course a good way, but it should be done as precise and clear as possible, and therefore we propose that the criteria for increasing public-books and public notebooks are left in law rather than being an arbitration decision by the Minister of Justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69391	Thank you. The HSS Club is a respected representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69392	Dear Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The public service carried out by public notebooks since 93 years of application of the 94th Law is based on the selection of a system of free Latin notaries or a public-book service carried out by free professionals with public authority. In the world, there is either that variant or the variant of the state notary system, meaning when public officials are doing jobs. Between the two variants, Croatia chose in 93rd to rely on free professionals with public authority. Since 94, the system has shown first that it has been accepted in society because society needs it. Secondly, it has shown that the biggest lack of system in public records is the position of citizens. In fact, if we tried any of the possible ways before this debate and a dozen surveys were conducted daily in Croatia with more or less success, we would ask the citizens how they refer or what their opinion of how the public notation system works is certainly also the fact that the introduction of public records led to an increase in the cost of regular life, economy and anything else. It is also evident that the powers laid down by law or by those activities which are on the margins or are partly prohibited by the articles of this law through the practice of how public notebooks operate are partly challenged. It is evident that some institutions were the financial institutions, they were the institutions of some work, they were the state institutions, they were the institutions of the court in some way each found its public notary. Almost certain economic or public structures have been defined for their authorised or their special public notary, so it is true that you know exactly when you talk about any financial institution that has its public notary, you can usually do more than just verify it. You can get a full set of quality information, you can be referred to another part of your business. At the same time, as we specialists in everything, we have so sophisticatedly developed this system that you today can come to the conclusion of a story about a business inspiration that can almost be realized. Of course, such a system that, naturally you would say, suits you because in one place it can supply you with a whole set of information, you can do the other part of the job or get quality information. On the other hand, it represents exactly what the Law did not foresee. Because the Law very strictly provides for what is forbidden in its articles, and it prohibits connecting with lawyers to do business together. However, we cannot just say what we want to say, say that today is the case and that today it is fully applied when we know it is not being applied. It is also like the judges to them, for they are in the same rank in that sense, for they are not party representatives, but they are impartial commissioners who take care of him who has entrusted them with something. Clearly, they are obliged to keep a public record. I'm not going in there as long as they're watching her. So, a whole series of things have found their own actions that are forbidden or on the sidelines of the existing Law. Therefore, I think it is good after all this time to say that it is good that these public services have been introduced, that it is good that public notation has shown resilience and that it has taken place in the frameworks and circumstances in which Croatian society exists. But I think it would be good, too, that these changes and additions that we want to refresh the system, strengthen it, and adapt it to the needs of citizens, to move on in the second reading and step forward, to move on and move forward in this second step of this irregularity that may possibly appear very clearly. To make a distinction between what is done and what is existing under the Law, but especially under the Law of Amendments and Supplements can work. And a very important principled but concrete remark. Public notation tariffs. In Croatia, we are known to have, when we introduce something, usually after a few years it is much more expensive than in the countries where we have introduced this innovation. So in Croatia, for example, I don't know if you knew, but the cost of banking services is 10 times more expensive in Croatia than in Switzerland. So, when you want to send a letter from Switzerland to any country and from Croatia, you want to send the same sign to any country, from the same bank that founded the bank in Croatia, from the same bank. Then your difference is no more than 100,000 euros. In Zagreb, you will pay 300 euros, and in Switzerland you will pay 10 euros. You'll pay the fees. It is very interesting, so we are standing with all the fees that are introduced in Croatia and that always fall on the citizens. That's how it is with public record tariffs. They are gentlemen, simply overpriced for the state of the economy, for the possibility of particularly retired people, especially pensioners, and nothing goes wrong with them, and they have to come for some sort of correction, they have to verify something, and they're missing something, so they're necking them twice, etc. Therefore, the tariff of the public notebook is waiting everywhere and waiting for everyone. Of course, it's a good thing you can get a property sheet through a public record office, it's a good thing it can be done, it's good that you can solve the legacy. However, it always costs you all, and it costs you at least 22% more than in court because the VAT is expecting you here. It's unquestionable here. Well, now that that's how it is, and if we've already made public notebooks live better, that they can develop, but what they're public service must always be, up there, write. The public service predicts something that is not adequate for a free economy because a free economyman is fighting on the market and it is not a public service. He's in business, he's in business, he can make money, and the public service has to take care of the citizens. That is why this is an opportunity for us to amend and supplement this Law to establish this tariff order. I absolutely don't want it to be misunderstood that this debate is against public notebooks. No, I don't. This is a debate aimed at citizens' rights, and that is why, and of course, I will also rely on the possibility that public note offices can be opened by the Minister's decision in other places. We agree, the criteria can't be just the number of citizens. At the time of the creation of a public record office system in Croatia, it was created at the time of war and porn. There were different economic circumstances, there were certain other circumstances that were significantly different than today, and today the public record business needs have grown. They haven't grown unfortunately from the point of view of the number of citizens. It'd be better if there were one 30% more of us so we could open up. Unfortunately, there's not so many of us anymore, there's a little bit less of us, but the needs have grown no matter what. The needs have also increased to increase the work cycle, from the performance, from all the major jobs where they can be done within the public record office. But those economic specificities and needs of specific areas in the Republic of Croatia deserve to be taken into account in particular and they are regulated in how a new public notary can be appointed. Is this as provided for in the new Article 8 or in a more concrete way so that there is no possibility of discretionary decision-making? And for that reason, I think it's very good that in the first reading all these opportunities that should be used are simply to put this public service into function of the citizens, so that it is not a generator, that it is not a cornerstone of the negative trends that can follow, they are now on the sidelines, but therefore they need to be very clear and strictly conscious in the allowed frameworks again not to protect themselves, to take up the space of public notebooks and to immediately go with suspicion of something, but I think we need to do it for the reasons that we simply see for ourselves that everything must simply be precise so that the public interest of the citizens can be protected as best possible because the public interest of the citizens and what citizens are ultimately interested in two simple situations. The first is that the public notebook office is close, the second is that it's cheap, they pay less for it and the third is that the institution they came to do doesn't point to the other part of the city because only there can they do their part of the job. These are the things our citizens are interested in, of course they're always looking forward to and the fact that something will make their job easier, but that relief can't go for... to pay 22% higher, 35% higher or 40% higher than what you once had, or compared to the possibility of doing it directly at a place where the same kind of ID is issued. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So public interest, the public service can't be just a substitute for the price difference and for the greater cost that citizens will have. He is a substitute also in quality, but at the same level of price must remain as those where a citizen will lose more time, but get the same correction. Therefore, it is a good opportunity to correct what our citizens are most hampered and to facilitate the system of functioning of public records offices, and that those spaces, those places that have not so far for these or those reasons, have had the opportunity to have public records offices to enable them and create conditions for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69393	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69394	Well, my colleague said, I'm correcting it as incorrect, so you can get an update through the public notebook. You could have done so by law in 2003, which after two years instead of being put into effect then. Now only through the public notebook can you get the performance of the public enterprises and others who act towards you as a citizen. Unfortunately, when you appear as a citizen with an executive proposal and a request to you, it is up to you to say that the exercise continues to be as complicated as the case before.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69395	HSP club, respected representative Miroslav Rožic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69396	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam Minister. I'm going to start actually, I've decided on behalf of the club to start with what I usually end up with, and I'm already boring myself, but this really irritated me to the point that I can't stand not to start with it. First of all, I am correcting the incorrect quote of my colleague, Rados, who said that this law has not been changed for 12 years, and then I did not want to report because this law has not been changed since July '93. years, so that deadline is even longer. In view of the reasons for the amendments and the addition of this Law, which cite many and many new powers of public notebooks, public records offices as well as many of their new tasks and tasks that they can actually carry out, it is truly amazing that 13 years of such a law has not been amended. But what surprised me even more is this explanation along with some of the amendments to these articles. So let me read to you in article 51, which speaks of article 108 on paragraph 3, says that the score is 140, and it is to be written 141, and in Article 53, it says that in Article 109. 3. point 3. I don't know what, I guess the item because it doesn't say that, also the drop number one, and the correct number two should be number two. And then in article 79, he says, "It's an obvious breakdown in law making, so it's necessary to correct it." So, whatever the word "breath" means, and I'm going to ask the minister to tell me exactly what it means because I don't know the meaning of the word "breath," it still took 13 years for such a slip to be observed in the law. Well, whenever this happens, it is still good to notice and to admit what is even more important, but what is interesting is that in Article 63, the amendment of Article 63 states: "In paragraph 128(2), point 8 is added." I would comment that this is obviously about one obvious slip, not in the item, but in the article. He says, "It is changing because it is" he says "normally that the deputy public notary except for the rest of the government in Croatian." So if that's normal for a deputy public notary, I guess it should be normal for the ministry that writes the bill to rule the Croatian language. There's so much about this first one, and now I'm going to do a little bit about the metrics actually of these amendments and the additions of the law. There are several things that are unquestionable and good here, and above all it is actually accepting the fact that some of the provisions of this Law, I repeat once again for 13 years, as unconstitutional or better said here are not in line with the provisions of Articles 14 and 54. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. It is truly amazing that the Ministry of Justice admits, but it is nice to see that something 13 years does not comply with the Constitution, but it is nice that it has been seen and that it has been amended, which is the provision of which the minister spoke about where candidates with a longer internship had the advantage of setting up a public record office that really does not comply with the Constitution. However, what we at the HSP club really hold with a bad solution in this Law, namely by amending this Law is that many colleagues have already criticised, which is actually one, the opening of a discretionary right and the possibility of a minister and ministry responsible for these affairs to actually open and close public records offices. Although in his explanation, he says, "It is necessary to establish criteria for identifying the number of public notebooks not only according to the number of inhabitants in a given area but also according to the degree of economic development and legal traffic. And who will determine the degree of economic development of an area, and what is legal traffic in a particular area? Are there such statistics? Whether these data are known, and above all even that there are statistics determining the degree of economic development is indeed something that is always casual even with statistics. However, such a formula without working on clear criteria, and the only criterion that is here is a clear number of inhabitants, and it is also quite clear that this population criterion cannot be the only criterion. It was supposed to work out some other criteria in the law. Is that a geographical area? Is that how I say population density in a particular area? Is that the number of legal entities registered in a particular area? And so on and so on and so forth, but in any case some criteria, not a flat-rate assessment of the degree of economic development and degree of legal traffic, because at some point you can have a high level of legal traffic, for example, in some parts of the country, for example, on the coast of our beautiful Adriatic, where certain purchase jobs are constantly taking place, especially now, because even when it is finished, there will be no more such volume of payment, then the ministries, the Ministry will probably shut down those public records offices and so on. So I think that it is, this flat-rate assessment and the possibility that this one formula that actually discretionary rights of the minister and the ministry that he determines the number of public records offices is actually something that we disagree with and we think we need to develop quite clear criteria. He says, however, that's what's bothering me in the way of reason. He says, among other things, he's counting. He says: "Specially with the fact that the Law on Inheritance and Public Notes were given to the commissioners of the court in the jurisdiction of the undisputed legacy. By law, public notebooks are authorised to issue performance solutions on the basis of a credible document. Then they are authorised to issue land-book extracts and so on and so forth. Therefore, an increase in the volume of work is described, and then it is said: "This increase in the volume of work given such extended powers and thus the jobs of this Law suggests that the Ministry of Justice can increase the number of public notebooks or reduce in a particular official field of public notary." If there's an increase in the size of the job, then why can it shrink? It would be clear to me that it can increase the number of notebooks, but why can it reduce them by justifying it by increasing the volume of work? There are likely other reasons for reducing the number of notebooks in a given area, and then they should certainly be listed. All that the Minister said and what it says here in an explanation, which is the change that goes towards the Ministry of Justice which is authorized to exercise control over the work of public notebooks, should be regulated by law and allowed, in fact, to initiate a disciplinary procedure, to follow it, to be informed of it and so on. The HSP club certainly supports it because it is indeed something that the Ministry both by law and by the logic of its work should and must work and of course should enable them to do so in law. But there are a few other things we might want to comment on. This is Article 7 which is amended in Article 13(1). He's replacing word 5 with word 3. So it's certainly a matter of years of work experience or, as they say, years of experience for need. I see absolutely no real reason to have years of experience needed to carry out this activity reduced from 5 to 3. And I didn't hear in the opening minister's explanation why it would be reduced from 5 to 3 because 5 is a perfectly normal and standard number of years of experience needed to do public affairs. So this is about public affairs, and I think it's totally, I don't see any reason besides that, except that it might allow for the establishment, easier setting up of new public-book offices, but I think there are enough of those who have 5 years of experience with the judicial exam and who might respond to these demands. Something about what some of my colleagues have been saying, and this is what they are asked as to how colleagues of Cain expressed themselves, peeling by public notebooks, and I am still interested in the fact that the Minister may explain to me why this provision, which so far reads in Article 164: "The public notary is authorised to ask that his reward be paid immediately after the job has been done, and may also ask for an appropriate advance." So maybe it's just another known public authority with me to say so, this is the only one in which you can ask for an advance. I don't know why it was in the old law. I think that needs to be changed because really public notebooks shouldn't ask for advances because if I don't see any reason why they should ask some party for advances. If they suspect that the party can pay for the job he has to do, then it is enough doubt enough that he does not put the job together at all, does not Solomon such a contract or everything that comes here. I don't see any reason why public notebooks should have the right to claim advances? And even worse is what these changes suggest. And these amendments are now proposed that this article, which said "can look for" actually reads as follows: "The Party is obliged to pay the reward immediately after the work has been done." Not that the public notary is authorized to ask for it to pay. It's the party's duty to pay immediately after the job's done. I guess that's because they're now entrusted with executive procedures, so if he can't protect himself how only a believer will he? Therefore, the party must immediately trim for that fee that belongs to it. And the public says the notary is therefore obliged to pay immediately after the job has been done, and the public notary may also request an appropriate advance, so that's the pantry. So on behalf of the HSP Club, Madam Minister, I would really ask you to consider in the second reading why the public notebooks would be the only one with public powers that can ask for an advance along with of course other public affairs which I would not mention here because they are not legally or constitutionally regulated, that is, what people like to say legalised, and that you simply abolish that provision, and also to return the possibility that they will immediately charge their business, or that they may ask for, and not that you can clearly justify that the party is obliged to pay immediately what has been done because most normal people and without such provision in any law immediately pay their dues or debts, and those who do not anyway end up in court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69397	Thank you. At 13.30, the time for individual debate expired. Representative Vesna Škrare Ozbolt. She's gone. He's losing his word. And yet another respected representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69398	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In the assessment of the situation and the issues addressed by this law, the applicant says that in the application of the Public Note Act, many of its provisions allow public notaries to act equally when drawing up and issuing similar public records and carrying out other public records, as well as the different treatment of supervisory and other bodies when deciding on the rights and obligations of public notebooks. Since the number of public notebooks and public records offices was established in 1994, so during the Homeland War, when in the Republic of Croatia were completely different conditions and different situations compared to today, it is necessary to establish criteria for the identification of the number of public notaries according to the number of inhabitants in a given area and according to the degree of economic development and legal traffic, and especially with the extension of their powers from business through the fact that the Law on Inheritance of public notaries as commissioners of the court was given in the jurisdiction of the uncontested desert, and the Executive Law of the Public Notes is authorised to issue solutions on the basis of credible documents and are authorised to issue land-booked articles. In view of these changes in business in order to fully regulate this activity, the law should also regulate several other very important segments in the system of public record activities related to the organisation of the system and the resolution of individual cases. Already, counterpart Anticevic Marinovic stressed on behalf of the SDP Club the importance of the quota and would like to relate to it. For example, we now have a situation where some have a hundred tasks per year, and some more than 15 thousand, so there is a question of these so-called small ones. small offices and their business at the limit of survival. Municipal courts generally adhere to the principle of quotas, so they evenly assign the cases left behind even though there are pressures of large notebooks on the courts to send them cases of large, rich deserts and small ones. In order for the public notary to operate profitablely, it should have a minimum of 1500 stronger tariffd transactions relating to the general register and at least 10 000 signature certificates per year. This would allow new jobs to be created. Furthermore, in order to achieve the competitiveness and quality of the work of public records offices, it is necessary to regulate their working hours. I mean, the kid can't work more than eight hours because I can't pay the clerk, because there's not so much traffic that big in this case I can. Therefore, in order to level the quality of the service and to introduce order, quotas and working hours of the public records offices should be set. Public notaries should also be subject to the obligation to provide free legal advice, for example once a week for two hours. This would make legal assistance more accessible to citizens, and this is possible because public notebooks are actually the most educated persons in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. Namely, after the Faculty of Law, they must work for 4 years in the profession, then pass the judicial exam in order to work again for 3 years in the profession and only then on a public record exam, and education, for example, by the Supreme Court judge, ends already after the judicial exam. Therefore, the question arises why a tax is paid if VAT is paid. For example, for the verification of the signature, 30 kunas of the book prize are paid, with 6 kunas and 60 liters of VAT but 10 kuna of tax is also paid. The question arises why and the fee and why when VAT is paid. The system also has a problem with the cost of loan insurance, i.e. solemnisation. In fact, instead of a bank, it is paid by a party or a party to pay insurance against itself, and everything in practice happens so that the bank only sends a party to a specific notary because it will not otherwise receive a loan. In the real estate market, sales should be abolished through agencies because it is a legally insecure business. Namely, it does not provide for a property check, so it happens that the buyer has to raise desert debates for the deceased former owners in order to register as the owner. In order to control the value of the property and the amount of the transaction as well as the real property over the real estate, it is necessary that the entire purchase is made through a public record office. The implementation should be excluded from the powers of the public notaries because, under this system, the notary is automatically placed on the verifier's side to issue an executive order on the basis of the request of the credentials, the warrant becomes enforceable and the debtor does not even need to know. The notary is thus placed on one side which is contrary to the essence of public notation because it is not to be classified on either side and does not know the facts sufficiently. For the purposes of this exercise, a private service should be established, which would mean around 1500 new jobs, i.e. 500 executives, 500 economists and 500 employees, and this would cost no cost to the state. Finally, tariffs should be arranged in a way that makes them more socially sensitive and acceptable. For example, it is the same tariff to verify that you do not have the means to live as well as the announcement of the sale of villas, houses, cars, ships or the like. I want to illustrate with one more example the poorly solved tariff model. In the event of the death of a retired wife's husband, the apartment remains, say, 60 square feet. Therefore, in order to transfer ownership over the apartment to itself in view of the value of the apartment, it must pay the maximum amount of the tariff of two thousand 500 kuna increased for VAT. This is due to the height of the pensions of the party most often unable to pay, so the real estate remains on the deceased, i.e. the leave is legally not regulated. However, the same tariff is also paid for the purchase of assets consisting of, say, a house, a cottage, a business space, a Mercedes and a yacht which is indeed negligible at the value of such a transaction. Let's just say that, she doesn't pay the tax I mentioned earlier, so only VAT is paid. So it is obvious that many more things in the public record business need to be solved, and this is an opportunity for these things to be resolved in order for the law to be quality and to achieve those goals that you, Madam Ministers, in the opening presentation to be underlined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69399	Thank you. Final review, Justice Minister Ana Kirin, Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69400	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here I am thanking all the MPs who have constructively discussed the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Public Literature. We will be accepting proposals from the debate, even those relating to the public note tariff, although they are not the subject of these amendments and the addition of this law, but on the occasion of the tariff debate, we will keep them in mind. What may not be understood and what we will explain better in the final text is that even the number of consultants in public records offices will be limited to one if the proposed text does not result in this clearly enough. Also, the idea of quotas should be considered, we will see whether the individual burden of a particular state-level attorney's office is the result of guessing or some specific contracts, or whether it depends on the quality of a particular public notary, so in any case we will consider and consider that solutions would be more quality. Spelling errors will also be corrected in the final text of the law and I apologize for words that do not comply with the Croatian standard language in this proposal. And finally, the most important provision that has been pushed through is whether the justice minister will independently determine the number of public records offices. This is one proposal that's here for discussion, the debate will show if it's the best solution. What is obvious, and from this data is introduced, about the number of public places identified and the number of public places filled out. So there was talk that there was a need to increase the number of public places. No, we need to redistribute them. They are determined by a sufficient number, only these data clearly say that in some places, in some areas there are too few, in some too many, that they are not well distributed. Therefore, it was thought that it would be faster and more effective for the minister to resolve the real situation of life. But it won't be a problem, because until now these public records have been established by the Justice Minister, so they are not established by law, they are based on the framework criteria laid down in the law laid down by the rules adopted by the Minister of Justice. Therefore, I am opening the possibility also to remain with the existing solution that this is determined by the regulation because the number and place of public places is an integral part of the rules adopted by the minister. Here's another thank you for the debate. We'll consider the final text proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69401	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We will continue at 3:00 with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Transport Act, first reading. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Registration. I am voting on the following conclusion: "The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Literature is hereby adopted. All comments, proposals and opinions shall be made to the Proposer in order to prepare the final draft law." Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 72 votes for, 20 abstentions and 1 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69404	Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! With a small apology for this misunderstanding and a delay of which a few seconds allow me to take a brief look at these amendments and to supplement the Road Transport Act. First of all, several in the legislative framework and the moment at which these amendments are adopted and the amendments to the law are complemented. Therefore, the basic law was passed in December 2004 with a very significant provision that was then postponed in transitional and final provisions with a 12-month period of effect. In December of last year, the Croatian Government delayed the entry into force of the Regulation or the provisions laid down in Article 6 of this Act until 30 September 2006 by a regulation and basis of the Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Today's amendments and additions to the law seek to fully integrate the basic meaning of the Government of Croatia's regulation into the material law in such a way that the provision in the law of Article 6 whereby public transport carried out by freight vehicles and passenger vehicles may be carried out if it is not older than 18 years and 10 years, respectively, delayed until the beginning of 2012. In addition to the most important provisions of these amendments and the addition of the law, I would mention and stress three more elements. One is that the law also improves in the section where the technical preparation that drivers must have, or from that obligation, excludes carriers or drivers carrying out transport for their own needs and particular emphasis on the fact that this law also harmonizes the age allowed by drivers when operating vehicles of certain categories of freight road transport. Also, criminal provisions are harmonised and served in such a way that the minimum penalty for a certain category of offences with a thousand kunas is determined at 7 thousand kunas, which is approximately in line and in terms of what is actually charged to our drivers if they are found in a breach in the countries of the European Union. Here, so much in this opening part. I'm at my disposal for all questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69405	Thank you very much. Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Committee President-in-Office Alenka Košisa Chicin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69406	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison at the 48th session held on 4 July 2006 discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Transport Act, first reading P.Z. No. 511, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee discussed the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act as a home working body in accordance with the provisions of Article 89. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The opening statement was given by a representative of the applicant who pointed out that this proposal proposes, among other things, to regulate the issue of the coordination of the business of legal and natural persons carrying out the transport activity in such a way that the time limit for harmonisation relating to the age of the vehicle 18 and 10 years respectively is extended by 1 January 2012. He also pointed out that it proposed to increase the minimum amounts of fines for infringements of the operation of liner transport without authorisation, to carry out transport from the Republic of Croatia to third countries and vice versa, and cabotage to bring them into line with the countries in the environment and the countries of the European Union. In the debate, the members of the committee accepted the bill, however they consider it necessary to introduce a tax on the age of the vehicle, etc. an ecological tax which would detimise the use of old vehicles in such a way as to gradually increase the tax so that it would be a really stimulating measure to replace the vehicle. It is also an opinion on the inclusion of the Environmental Protection Fund, which should encourage projects from the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development in the replacement of vehicles. The need for a phase replacement of a vehicle within certain time limits to be replaced by 2012 has also been highlighted and the balance of the vehicle on the ground would thus be established. After the debate was held, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach the next conclusion. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be taken into account by the applicant when drawing up the final draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69407	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Zivko Nenadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69408	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! This proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on road transport is about a small change but there is far-reaching I would say positive consequences. The new Road Transport Act of December 2004 also lays down conditions for carrying out activities. The adjustment was set for a year, so December 2005. . /. However, seeing that this deadline is too short to apply the law, and the law must be applied by a number of carriers would have to stop working without a basic means of working and thus by many without a job. By its regulation, the government moved the deadline for harmonisation until 30 September 2006. We've got three months left. With this proposal for amendments, which we are discussing today, the Government is proposing a new deadline for compliance with the existing law by 31 December 2006, except when it comes to the age of the vehicle in public road transport of passengers and freight. That period shall be extended until 1 January 2012. Why? One of the important conditions for road transport refers to the age of vehicles which can carry out the transport activity and this condition says that the activity of road transport of passengers and freight may be carried out by vehicles, buses and trucks under 18 years of age and for the transport of of students to vehicles under 10 years of age. Although the new law under quotes forced many carriers to rebuild the rolling stock to make them more competitive both on the domestic and international markets, it did not extend the deadline for harmonisation that was December 2005. 16% of freight vehicles and 38% of buses could not be on road traffic during 2006. It's a total of about 20,000 vehicles, about 25 thousand vehicles. What would that mean for car owners? For those who drive, for the economy? A certain failure and a lack of work. The Croatian state is not so rich that it could easily handle it. It is also necessary to have a very serious view of the fact that in 2012, the number of vehicles over the age of 18 will be almost 50,000, and that is twice as much as now. And so we're going to show up again in front of the same problem. In addition to the most important in terms of age of the vehicle, the applicant has seen several other shortcomings and has proposed certain improvements and clearer definitions of some... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69409	Comrade Nenadić, one moment please! Ladies and gentlemen, just to welcome a visit to the Committee of the Croatian Parliament on European Integration is the delegation of the Committee on European Affairs of the House of Representatives of the Dutch Parliament that are here in the gallery. There's Mr. Ambassador of the Dutch, and the president of the Committee, and let's welcome our colleagues and colleagues... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69410	Thank you. In addition, the most important thing about the age of the vehicle is that the applicant has seen several other shortcomings in the existing law and has proposed certain improvements and clearer definitions of some of the provisions of the existing law. Such as the situation where transport is carried out under its production or service needs such as the age limit of drivers for certain categories harmonizes with European norms and some others. As the existing adjustment deadline expires on 30 September 2006, this procedure should actually be accelerated. Therefore, the HDZ Club supports the amendment and addition of road transport laws in the first reading with the recommendation to further consider ways and incentives for the restoration of the rolling stock either through a higher eco-innovation of the vehicle's proportional age and by stimulating the replacement of vehicles for a new and, or by any other means, using experiences and solutions from other countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69411	Thank you. HSP club Miroslav Rozic. He's gone, the club's losing its word. Honorable representative of the Chicin-Shain Alenka Košisa, the club of representatives of the HNS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69412	I thank my colleagues, and I thank the proposer. This Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Transport Act proposes to regulate the questions of compliance between the business of legal and natural persons carrying out the transport activity in such a way that this deadline, which was designed until 1.1.2007, is harmonised in the light of the possibilities and is related to the age of a vehicle up to 10 years and up to 18 years respectively, depending on whether the transport or transport of children is concerned. Prolonging this deadline de facto opens up different possibilities. It was debated that the deadline was of course too long and the debate went in the sense that it was left to another government to make unpleasant decisions about it, however, what is quite certain is that in one, in no practically European country today, we do not have as the main criterion of age of the vehicle. For example, we recently read in the media, in the newspapers, that in Britain, buses were pulled to the floor, so to speak. "double deckers" after 50 years of age. So the main... for the transport of vehicles and for the registration of vehicles and thus the conditions for carrying out such activities are primarily the only technical correctness of the vehicle. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The technical correctness conditions of the vehicle shall be met with the age of the vehicle by setting stricter criteria for both the braking system for both the steering mechanism and the vehicle suspension itself. All of which, for all of these, periodic and periodic technical checks are also available for older vehicles. No one argues that the technical checks in our country are of a higher quality. They even got some international recognitions from making such technical examinations. We know that in Britain it's so-called. Mott views or examinations of motor vehicles, however, what we think and what might happen to us in view of the number of vehicles that we received as data today, we have about 24600 of these old vehicles while it is expected that in 2012, we would have about 46 thousand of such vehicles. So by making a decision to declare it all 1.1.2012 old vehicles, we believe in the HNS Club that it's not good. In order for this to be done further and for these vehicles to be excluded in several ways, i.e. by different and stimulating and criminal measures. Therefore, in terms of incentives, it would certainly be one of the options to use funds coming from the Fund to the Environmental Protection Fund, which today unfortunately do not remain, which remain incompletely used while in the opposite direction there should be incentive measures for the purchase of new vehicles. Of course, this is primarily about small craftsmen, i.e. small entrepreneurs who mostly own one such vehicle. This isn't about big companies dealing with transportation, so they have to change everything all of a sudden. So, with one decision that would go selectively to withdraw first those vehicles that are the oldest so that we can wait 1.1.2012. We would certainly facilitate the problem we would otherwise face if we had to at one point 46,000 vehicles, old vehicles somewhere on one of the markets probably Eastern Europe or the Far East. That vehicles are old, especially buses for transporting children, traffic accidents, are a direct example that occurred a year ago when a student in the mind of Makarska or Imotski died in a car accident. In such a case, the vehicle was only 5 years old and was technically correct, and it was likely a human factor, although the meager event was a direct cause to think about it. The basic prerequisite for making any legal decision in terms of limiting the number of years, vehicles for carrying out public, road transport or transport of their own needs is primarily a detailed, good and deep analysis of transportation in Croatia. Of course, it should bear in mind the various parameters to be considered from the number of carrier states, from the real state and the status of carrier. It doesn't matter if it's a public road carrier, whether it's an international carrier. Therefore, the status of the transport of its own needs, the transport for tourism, the actual licensing, the number of vehicles, the age of the vehicle, the purpose of the vehicle. Therefore, all of these are different criteria to be recorded in this transport industry and to see with great care how this deadline is determined and how these old vehicles gradually from the number of vehicles that are on our roads are reduced, and how to encourage entrepreneurs themselves to invest and buy new vehicles and naturally replace the old ones with new ones. Prolonging the deadlines by 2012 will only complicate the situation since we will not be fully members of the European Union at that time. The then government will face even bigger problems than they are today. We should count on those 40,000 vehicles to be sold somewhere, we'll need to find a market for those old vehicles. So today, a new vehicle over 12 tonnes of load capacity costs about 75 000 euros, plus if it comes to cargo vehicles, a trailer that costs another 25000 euros. The new bus costs about 20,000 euros. So it is also necessary to consider what incentive means to go towards these small entrepreneurs who will be most affected, at any point in time, by such a law. The legal provisions of this form apply only to Croatian carriers, and European carriers, most of whom do not have a limited age age, will be in absolute advantage of competitiveness towards Croatian carriers. Also, the very definition of this legal form is in principle non-binding and as such does not make any legal sense because there are no certain sanctions for its non-execution. The solution is to make a legal provision through this article 6 which we are actually talking about today in this proposal. After a detailed analysis of its above state, through a series of sublegal acts that actually follow this problem and this activity and thus slowly remove this outdated technology from Croatian roads. It should also enable owners of such vehicles to perform and sell their vehicles without legal restrictions, so that we can get rid of them and stimulate the purchase of new vehicles. Tax policy and relief. One of the proposals that can be heard today and on the board, and our party also advocates the same thing, so-called. environmental tax. Namely, this green tax which is progressive means that it is exponential to vehicles that are older tax more, those younger tax less and thus through actually one stimulating measure and through one restrictive measure could practically come to the conclusion that we do not welcome in 2012 with 46,000 old vehicles, but that we do so in one conflicting time until then. Of course, we as a club will support this bill with all the notes we have already made through the board. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69413	Thank you. Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69414	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. So this bill is a typical law that shows that they come to the government with knowledge a year or two after the first debate in this House when and when this law was passed, there was a lot of debate and there was a special opposition showing that this measure could not be complied with. I'm talking about the age of the vehicle. It means that trucks or buses older than 18 can't drive Croatian roads. We have indicated that the current situation, i.e. it is not important now, that the largest number of carriers in particular of these small craftsmen who have a truck, two or three simply will not be able to comply with their regulations or will not be able to purchase and purchase new vehicles. At that time, we are told that this is in line with the rules of the European Union. It has not been said, however, to anyone, although we have insisted, and I think the transport criterion should be the technical correctness of the vehicle in no way the age of the vehicle. There's something else you can go to when you're older. We have brought and we have environmental taxes, energy efficiency and higher taxes for older vehicles, we will surely force the signs as one economic measure that a rolling stock must be restored on the one hand, and on the other hand we have a number of European states that do not exchange licenses for exit of freight vehicles and passengers, of course, I mean buses that simply can't get in with old vehicles that are environmentally unacceptable. You cannot go outside Croatia's borders with them. It wasn't accepted at the time. We had that going with the government regulation. This is what we discussed when the regulation was discussed that it was a little bit on the border of constitutionality, that it seemed to me even at the time when the Croatian Parliament was sitting and everything else. I'm glad the government has an ex-post mind, so let's accept in the end what the opposition has proposed before. However, I am asking you, and I would also like to hear these active measures of government economic policy that will help Croatian transporters survive on this difficult market, especially the smaller ones, because here when it comes to 16.5% of freight vehicles that could no longer drive foreign roads. What will the government do, and how will the government help them to rebuild their fleet? Are these any kind of incentives through more favourable loans where the government will influence business banks through its programmes and subsidise interest on these loans. Will it be possible for such cases to reduce VAT or anything else? I'd like to hear something from the Ministry about it. Because if you haven't already accepted in 2004, what we have persistently said from the opposition, how now that suddenly so much social sensitivity or we are ahead of the elections, and all of a sudden it's about 20 or 30 thousand small craftsmen and their families, that's a pretty good number of votes. The other thing I'd like to point out right now is that I welcome as a measure. If we want to have a higher education structure in Croatia, then it is absolutely certain that drivers who drive in public transport should also be those with a high school traffic direction, i.e. that they have a qualification of drivers. However, I would like to hear and this is now what within the government should be inter-resorial, whether the network of our secondary schools and professions that are being educated in our secondary schools, adapt to the fact that in different parts of Croatia all have equal opportunities especially young people, there will be a driver's profession. I would like to hear from Mr. Secretary of State, how many high schools currently in Croatia can enroll the program – driver. Because it seems to me that there are no more than 3-4 high school in Croatia, I think, which have this class program for driver occupation. So we know for ourselves that the largest number of professional drivers have completed some high school, they passed B category, so they have to go to school with them. Therefore, Mr. Secretary of State is not well to take one legal measure without it being in line with a network of high school professions. These days, they're enrolling, and I think, and I believe that you have the information that you're going to get before us Parliamentarians. And as far as this means the age of the vehicle, I'm glad there's been an ex-post mind in the government to accept suggestions from us from the opposition. The truth God, here he is, almost a year and seven months, eight months late, but better ever than never. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69415	Thank you. Honorable representative Nikola Sopčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69416	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. I support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Transport Act. This bill corrects certain things that are also some of the provisions of the previous law that we passed in 2005. Of the fact that people who are now carrying out road transport do not have to have medium professional training for the driver, it means that the existing condition is accepted. And also those young men who finished high school by profession won't have to wait three years to do their job. So when they're 18, they'll be able to drive vehicles whose permitted mass doesn't exceed 7.5 tonnes, and over that at 19. I think it's a good provision and it basically eliminates the lack of a previous law. Also, what was very current today is with our carriers and in freight transport, and also to the bus, this is an age limit. Simply, the threshold also shifts to the possibility of adjustment by 2012. Although I think we should think about this difference, let's say, on a bus ride, we have an 18-year limit on regular lines, and on the transport of school children for 10 years. The fact is that lineage also drives school children and cannot be the only measure of the age of the bus. You have a bus that's a few years old that's been torn up, that's got a big mileage, and you've got the same old buses that fully meet all the conditions. The most important is the technical correctness of the vehicle. The fact is that the current law has also brought about some shifts and that a good part of our carriers have been trying and trying to adapt to the existing provisions. Now it'll be practically another six years for an additional adjustment. With some support through the Environmental Protection Fund and this proposal to introduce environmental taxes on old buses, trucks will certainly give certain effects. The current government regulation gave a break and a break practically until the 9th month. It will probably need to pass another regulation because it's hard to come up with a final proposal, we'll have a certain vacuum, it'll be a problem how to easily bridge it by the 9th month. I don't think I'd talk much more, mostly my colleagues said everything. Those shortcomings, most of which were observed on the ground by the carriers themselves, these changes and additions were largely removed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69417	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivan Vukic. Excuse me, we have a replica. Mr. Korenika, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69418	So to me, respected colleagues and vice president, I'm extremely glad to hear that from the ranks of the majority, there was also a story that the most important technical correctness of the vehicle was in traffic. I'm the only one asking you where you were a year ago and seven months ago when we said that and when you guys used to mock us how we could even come here with such suggestions. And you won't need... My colleagues listen to you and I don't talk, so be so polite, at least you could be. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I know I'm asking too much, but good. But, and now I'm curious, there's been an ex-post mind, and why should I need another regulation from a respected colleague, so this session is still going on for about a while, we still have seven working days, including today, seven working days. Therefore, there is no reason for the government to go with another regulation, and I hope that you, from the majority, will influence the government to have a second reading of this law come next week. There is no reason in particular that I see the position of all clubs to support such a thing, therefore it is only a matter of goodwill and the summit of the Parliament that it will simply vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69419	Mr. Sopcic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69420	My dear colleague, I really don't mind if it comes back to this session and we pass a final bill, though. It doesn't matter, just to move that period. It's not a matter of expedience. The fact is that the existing law has also given certain effects, that the rolling stock is restored. I don't know if you're in contact with the carriers, but many of the foundations of the existing law have gone to adjustment and reconstruction of the rolling stock and the good part of the old age has been resolved in this way. So the simple combination and technical correctness, and also the age of the vehicle will certainly give its effects. I'm sure it wasn't bad that the law was passed. I'm the only one who brought the dilemma to the bus. So, in line road transport, a bus can drive up to 18 years of age, which also carries school children. And for school kids, it could mean up to 10 years. That's where I don't think you should have made that difference, but good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69421	Thank you. It's Mr. Agent Ivan Vukic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69422	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen in front of the Government of the Proposer. That Law lays down the conditions for carrying out road transport activities and regulates and improves the current Act on the age of vehicles and trucks and buses, which I certainly support, this new provision on the age of vehicles and buses, and the prolongation of 2012, as well as the conditions they prescribe, which must be met by drivers of those same vehicles as regards the age of 18 or 19, but as the Law regulates, whether up to 3 and a half tonnes or 7 and a half tonnes of vehicle loadability. Certainly, we here in Croatia and here in the Croatian Parliament can politicize everything from hunting dog to truck. And we're politicizing this one law. Well, here I am, and I admit that maybe we should have and that maybe we were wrong when we were bringing it in if we were looking from today's position. But we go back a little bit, I responsibly claim that the Law was not passed, that Croatia would become almost a cemetery of old cars. We know well that during the past period in Croatia were major infrastructure works where cargo vehicles and passenger vehicles, buses of various contractors from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Austria, Germany, America. All of them, after the completion of these major infrastructure works, wanted to sell these vehicles in the territory of Croatia. They did not want to take them back, and it was this law that we passed, and which the Government had prolonged with its regulations that must have prevented the good part of these old vehicles from staying in the territory of the Croatian State. They've already gone further, depending on how a highway contractor or some other infrastructure works got a job in Romania, Bulgaria or elsewhere. Regardless of what I'm saying, for prolongation, I think the law has absolutely achieved its goal as far as this fleet is concerned. Although I personally believe that the age of the vehicle, I agree with my colleague, Korenik, is not as important as the man, and so is the vehicle, that it is the technical correctness of each vehicle. Whether it is road, air, sea or rail, it is the most important technical correctness, and in that part until the second reading, I see the possibility of improving this Act mainly with those car transport organisations that have their own station for the technical examination of the vehicle. And right from knowing and talking to them, with drivers, that's the problem. That in such stations for technical inspection of vehicles in organisations that have these cells, I say, they look a little bit through their fingers and they're being put into traffic and technically invalid vehicles. We remember that until about 10 years ago we had on Croatian roads until there were so many highways, buses with school children followed by the police. I don't think it's nice to see us first, let alone some other people who come to Croatia, tourists or others. And that this Law and its application will certainly improve the situation even though we know that in Europe no country has a similar law regarding the age of the vehicle except, I think, Slovenia. I also think that we need a general Transport Safety Act, not only in road, but also in rail, air, traffic. So today we are aware that the Croatian air carrier has aircraft of a few 10-year-old age, that Croatian railways have locomotives from 62, that they have wagons and older ones, which also carry children and passengers, and more than that can be translated by a bus and can, in the event of an elemental accident, be a car accident and unfortunately a bigger accident. I therefore believe that, indeed, in that part, we need to bring the age legislation into line, and above all, with regard to the technical regularity of that vehicle. Once again, I think, here, until the second reading, the Proposer tries to improve the Law in part of the technical regularity of the vehicle surveillance, whether by the vehicle centre or by any other body of the ministry in the vehicle inspection stations, where they mostly look at their fleet and save the most money on it. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69423	Thank you. Mr. Mato Arlovic and the vice president are in line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69424	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Of course, I agree with the need to amend and supplement this Act, although I must immediately object, in principle, that this amendment and the addition of the Law is actually going towards extending the deadlines for reducing, i.e. maintaining the same age of the vehicle and driver and the position of the driver, that some of the essential safety issues, on the one hand of road transport and on the other hand of road transport security are not regulated. As is known in this segment are 3 important factors. On the one hand there is a road, on the other side the vehicle and on the third side the driver. I would just like to remind you of the famous Podravska highway where it is clear to everyone that actually the axle pressure on that magistrate is absolutely, absolutely above the allowed and where, in quite certain and quite clearly not only as a consequence, there is a destruction of the roadway but aggravation of road safety and on the one hand. And on the other hand, of course, slowing down other motor vehicles traffic, traffic safety and road transport. Therefore, it would be good for this Law as well as the Road Safety Act to cover the resolution of these issues as soon as possible, for example, the road which from Varazdin practically via Ludbreg to Osijek... The connection of northern Croatia has become very dangerous for both locals and residents because it passes through populated areas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Another thing I would like to say is this amendment and the addition of the Law warns and must be first warned of constitutionality, or unconstitutionalness. Among other things, Article 2 states: "A motor vehicle driver whose maximum permissible mass is 3 thousand and 500 kilograms to 7 thousand 500 kilograms must be 18 years old and the driver of a freight vehicle whose maximum permissible mass exceeds 7 thousand 500 kilograms must be 19 years old." At the same time, the preceding article says that a person driving a vehicle exceeding 3 thousand 500 kilograms must have completed high school and passed a professional exam. It's the first two of each other in contradiction because... 18 years ago. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Secondly, from the constitutional aspect of 18 years of age, all rights are acquired, but under the Labour Relations Act, a working relationship can also be established at 15 years of age. And thirdly, if you want to increase the safety of traffic from the aspect of experience and skills of the motor vehicle driver, then you have to put 18 years of age with one, two, or not knowing how many years of driving experience in a given category of vehicle that passes so that you practically avoid this non-constitutional category, i.e. the philosophy that is provided here, and that should be corrected. The more that Article 8 of the new paragraph 4, in fact, adds a new paragraph 5, something that is completely incomprehensible: "In the provisions of this Act relating to the professional training of drivers, do not apply to persons who, until the day of the entry into force of the Road Transport Act, carry out the tasks of a motor vehicle driver in road transport." Do A-categorys and B-categorys drive motor vehicles? Whether or not they will be able to normally after boarding, without medium professional training, practically be able to get on if they pass the category now, I don't know about bus driving, etc. Under this law that, and they practically did not have those skills and experiences before the entry into force of this Law, therefore, it is entirely... , probably should have been written in the appropriate categories in accordance with the Road Safety Act, etc. that it is known that drivers who are such motor vehicles, such categories and such a type actually drove before the entry into force of this Act and the lack of school preparation replace the experience and skills they have acquired by managing such a motor vehicle. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, my third point is a somewhat surprising situation for me concerning the amendment and addition of Article 97 where in particular paragraph 4 is amended, the first point 1 has been added and I can understand it, but I cannot understand that real amendments and additions to the law and that fines from one thousand to seven thousand kuna are then prescribed for the person responsible for non-compliance with the conditions laid down in Article 97(1) to (3). You know, the Road Traffic Safety Act provides for lower penalties, much greater penalties for some banal infringements for motor vehicle drivers on road safety than here will be covered by either the above-mentioned person, the responsible person in the legal person who, for example, carries out direct transport without a licence, carries out an activity without a licence, carrying out transport from the Republic of Croatia to third countries and vice versa, etc., etc., etc. The question is, what are we doing? To what extent we are setting up criminal penalties and to what extent is this disparity of those penalties actually devalued, precisely in what is being achieved, which is the concept of the rule of law and legal certainty. The punishment instead of becoming... The measure it becomes a contradiction to itself because one who has opportunities is not punished for much more serious acts in this case specifically than to say what is some kind of violation because he has no 0,2 or 0,3 alcohol in the blood driver who will... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] , who did not commit, committed a traffic violation but committed a violation himself in a felony only because there was so much in the blood, but he was normally driving. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the question really arises as to what extent and what absurdity we are coming to and in such a situation I draw attention to, I don't know if this has been converted into two readings of this bill? It is. [[Intruder: Yes.]] Turned into two readings. Then until the second reading to try to make this right, try to make it real and, of course, embrace it. And one more thing. I think it is entirely wrong to establish the technical correctness of the vehicle, i.e. the age of the vehicle as an argument to the safety of the vehicle. I think we should prescribe here the technical correctness of the vehicle as safety of the vehicle, and then of course prescribe and may be a vehicle much older than 18 years, in this particular case if it is a bus etc. may be an old timer, but the assumption must be that it is completely technically correct, that it has completely adequate driving properties etc. Then he can drive, transport, etc. Since the age of the vehicle is not the argument of safety, but the technical conditions that the vehicle must meet in order to ensure safety in road transport of passengers and goods and services provided by the service and in this respect should be laid down by law in order to review this situation in the opposite way, you know at 9 months that we will be thinking again about the extension or after the end of this year or by 31.12 this year should be brought into line with this Act as it states in legal persons, it is difficult to coordinate only business, it will be necessary to coordinate the acts, and in fact the basic means that are being done, etc., that is something else, but in such a situation we will reconsider the extension of the deadlines because we did not really specify when the extra and older vehicle could be used provided that it meets, of course, the technical and other conditions necessary to ensure that the full security of providing of the service that, for which it was carried out in respect of the transport or of the passenger. I hope these remarks will be taken into account until the final draft of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69425	Thank you very much. It's a representative, Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69426	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, we usually have a problem, so then by law we try to solve the problem, it means we come up with some kind of solution. With this law, that's not the case. The problem is not solved, the problem is delayed. It is delayed until 2012, and what will be the situation in 2012? Is the problem going to be smaller and easier to solve? No, I don't. Now these vehicles are over 18 years old about 25 grand, then there'll be about 50 grand, the problem will be twice as big. Well, if we hear that in Europe the age of a vehicle is not a safety criterion, well maybe not, I really don't know, if there are other criteria, technical correctness, I don't know what, so what don't we do then those criteria if that's smarter? Why do we delay solving the problem, and we know that time itself will not solve the problem, but it will double. And I think because there's no desire to get into that problem and solve it differently than lightly because this is no solution. Then I think there's a slip in this bill like there was in that Law on Public Libraries, the kind that was established after 13 years. Thus, Article 6 of the current law states that the activity of road transport of passengers and freight may be carried out by vehicles under 18 years of age. Well, of course he can. It can also be driven by vehicles aged 16 years and vehicles aged 2 years, and new vehicles can also be used. He can't. He doesn't have to. If you wanted to prohibit, if you want to prohibit the traffic of vehicles of 18 years of age, then it was necessary to write that only vehicles under 18 or negative expressions may be carried out in vehicles older than 18 years of age because this does not mean anything. It can be carried out by younger vehicles. All right, all right. Well, you see that doesn't change, but what's changed in Article 6. Article 6 is amended as follows: So now the minister will no longer have to take care that these sublegal acts comply with this law and that they will have to comply with some other law. We don't know that it doesn't say that. It just says they won't have to be consistent with anything. Well, now it's a newspaper of some kind in our system that sublaws don't have to comply with the law, and when it says in law that they have to be then it's thrown out without anyone knowing why. 18 years for a driver. Look, I'm not sure, I'm not sure that's the smartest solution. First let's finish that high school, and I don't know how long it takes him to call his driver for his education for three or four years. If it lasts four years then he's already 18 years old, then he's 19. He's got to take another test, and he's got to have some kind of professional time again. But look, they're professional drivers. Are they quite ready at 18 to operate such large and heavy vehicles? It's been a 21-year limit so far. A man in two years matures as a person in that age, and in addition to that, driving some lighter vehicles acquire some kind of driving experience. You know, school is never enough for you, never enough to be able to access it right away, I don't know the most responsible tasks in any profession. Well, it takes some time to adjust, some time to learn in practice. So let's get into practice still on these slightly lighter vehicles. Let's not challenge the devil. Unnecessarily, unnecessarily, because watch out for those vehicles with a mass of 3500 kilos, that's a terrible thing not to talk about seven and a half. It's a danger on the road. Now, is that exactly what to do? Can't find a job driving some smaller vehicles. I'm not sure that's the case. And on this provision, it says that the impediment is reduced to ten, and now we're reducing it to 7,000 kuna. For your belt, the penalty for the amateur driver is 500 kn. 500 is for a belt, and here for a professional driver, for a serious offense, a serious violation of a minimum penalty of 1000 kn. Well, that wouldn't work. We're either too hard on amateur drivers or we're too soft on professionals. A professional, a road driver must be a model driver. They are, and they are, but if that's the case, let's not be afraid of the greater obstacles, and let's not, especially when there's already a certain penalty in the law that's high and at least 10 000 kunas to reduce them to ourselves. I don't see any excuse for that, nor is that explained here. Therefore, I think that all these things should be considered. Until the second reading of the law is fixed, but this first and basic grudge cannot be fixed. This prolonging non-resolvement problem, it's not going to solve it, it's actually giving up on solving the problem. So just give the ministry a little thought, look at European legislative practice, analyze the problem and come up with a completely different solution that will not include the age of the vehicle, but take into account some other parameters when you already claim to be so in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69427	Thank you. More Mr. Representative Miroslav Rosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69428	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Indeed, Mr. Secretary of State, even here, there was a mention that the law should be supported for all sorts of reasons. It is mainly explained that these reasons are due to some failures, some adjustments, certain extensions of deadlines which are related to the fulfilment of certain provisions of the law, etc. etc. All that can be accepted. However, these amendments and additions to the Road Transport Act are, by my personal court, in fact, in a completely paradoxical relationship with the Road Safety Act, and I will tell you why. According to the Road Safety Act, we have led here a violent, lengthy debate in several readings, in several calls and passed a law that, for the sake of traffic safety, limited young drivers from 18 years of age who have just passed a driving test to have mentors. They must for at least a year under some conditions of driving with them have to be some mentor, some experienced driver, etc. So it's about personal vehicles. However, without any problem, we now want this law to the same beginner who just passed a driving test at 18 years old to put in the hands of a truck to drive it along the road without any mentor. Let me explain how it's possible. Is it because they drive trucks, that they might be safer in traffic when they're 18 years old than those who drive personal cars, for example? Are they for what reason? If it connects with the high school that these people need to finish and get the driver's call, then I will read you a sentence from your explanation that reads: "In fact, the Republic of Croatia is one of the few countries of Europe", I would say the rarest because I don't really know which other European country has "which has a specific education system or a secondary school program after which the driver's calling is acquired." So, the fact is that we have one truly rare, quite specific system of driving education in secondary education. Instead of harmonising it with most countries in the European Union, we actually prescribe that because we are specific, we have the right to drive trucks when we are eighteen even though in the European Union they do not have the right to drive 18-year-old trucks but only with twenty-one. So now you explain to me what logic that is. So, just because it's raining, we claim that the roads are dry. So, precisely because we have one specific system, we are making one solution that is contrary to the one in the European Union and I am calling for that article to be the one we are in line with, in fact, with Article 5(1) of Council Regulation (EEC) 3820/85. Be kind, explain to me what the Council of EEZ is, and whether it's a 85th regulation, whether we agree on that. As far as I know, there is no directive of the European Union that we would have to agree with, there is no obligation to bring this issue into line in our regulatory harmonisation programme with the European Union adopted by this Parliament, I have checked it. So, the question arises, what are we harmonizing with and why, so that our 18-year-olds who, specifically for Europe, can finish high school for the driver, can drive trucks at the same time at the same time pass a law that does not allow our youngsters of 18 years of age to drive their own cars. It's not really clear to me, so I'm going to ask you to explain it a little bit. And not to mention how personally, let no one be offended, I personally think that a young man of 18 who had just passed a maturity exam, even if he had acquired a driver's call to our specific high school system, I wouldn't be happy to give him a bus ride, especially with children, even though that bus was under the age of ten. You know why? And not to mention the 30-50-ton trucks with nineteen-year-old driving experience because I always remember that young man who was 21 years old and who practically with his tanker running into a house on the Adriatic magistrate's side of Kruscica behind Karlobag actually burned down his entire village and destroyed his young life because he was driving a tanker with 50 tons of dangerous flammable fluid with a year of driving experience. And instead of prescribing that young drivers, even drivers are not allowed to drive trucks carrying dangerous substances from 30 to 50 tonnes without having at least three or five years of driving experience, any driving experience, not trucks, but any driving experience, we actually trust trucks, even slightly less tonage and buses to young people from 18 years of age without any driving experience. Not a truck, but without any driving experience. I have to admit it vaguely. As for the obligation required by this law that drivers should meet the requirements of high school, then I remind you of something that you certainly know that at this time of professional drivers this condition meets maybe 20%, if 20%. 80% of that condition doesn't satisfy. And now, what's the solution that you're proposing? The Government's Decision is Article 8(2), which states: "The provisions of this law relating to the driver's professional training do not apply to persons who carried out the tasks of motor vehicle drivers in road transport until the day of entry into force of road transport." So you're actually setting one constitutional question standard because constitutionally it's certainly an inequality, an inequality to do some work. Some of them have to finish high school and some don't have to. Which ones don't have to? Those who already do it and don't have it. It's actually an inequality. I think it's even constitutionally questionable. Of course, it will not become constitutionally questionable at the time when you allow those who are already doing so to acquire that high school education or to prescribe certain conditions for the acquisition of that high school as you prescribe for those who will only become motor vehicle drivers. I absolutely agree with my colleague Arlovic, you must have missed the fact that the motor vehicle driver is also a driver of a private car and not only. Or if it isn't then you'll explain what it's like, why it applies to all motor vehicle drivers in road traffic, whether it's because they're being talked about in the Transport Act or for some other reason. But what I would like to end by saying is that it really confuses me and I can't support what I'm talking about is the fact that by accepting these amendments and supplementing the law, we will become the only country, certainly the only countries in Europe and perhaps the wider one that will equalise the age of their trucks and drivers. They'll both be 18. Such countries in the European Union but do not exist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69429	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, five minutes is the conclusion of Mr. Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69430	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, the respected representatives of the ministry after the presentation of his colleague, Rosic, it seems that this proposal for the law for the 5th reading is because he has found these handsome details that are confusing to me and to the proposings themselves. I would call this proposal actually a kind of political terrorism because we've been discussing this in Parliament a year or a fourth time. In the former government, when ministers were reduced by 3 months twice, the former minister Kovacevic called it political masochism. And this is the third time we've discussed the same problem in the House, that we're wasting time without anyone answering for it, and that the problem is exactly the same. That there are still 25 thousand people who can't carry out their activities if they have cargo vehicles that are more than 18 years old or at least if they feel one uncertainty and fear, then it's unusual at least. And now we're gonna talk about the same thing one more time. And it's interesting when I proposed the same amendment to the law in December 2005, when I said it was not good to limit the age of the vehicle to 18 years, the government's response was that it was actually a regulation that would extend that deadline by December 2006 and then the drivers in Croatia would adapt. How it's going to adapt in such a short time, I guess only the government and the competent ministry knows that. But what's most interesting is an explanation for what these provisions do in relation to the current law. That is how you achieve, be careful, encourage entrepreneurial freedom in accordance with the possibilities of the carrier. All of a sudden we're opening up freedom for an entrepreneur to drive a truck if God forbid he's over 18. We also allow such an entrepreneur who has an old truck to be equated with the conditions laid down by the regulations of the Member States of the European Union. So so far, according to the government's regulation, we've been limiting entrepreneurial freedoms because it says it unequivocally here and our entrepreneurs have not been leveled with the conditions as prescribed in other countries that are members of the European Union. Now, thank God we are finally discussing the same problem again, these 25 thousand trucks and 1848 buses, which by 2012 will continue to operate if their vehicles are older and do not fit these conditions. And we're probably going to talk two or three times again about the same problem that will be extremely simple, and we need to adapt the law to what it says in the normative acts of our neighbouring countries and finally everywhere in Europe for vehicles is the technical correctness criterion, not the age of the vehicle. Gentlemen, I am asking you to finally get such a proposal that you would probably unanimously accept because I see colleagues from the HDZ who last time radically attacked my proposal agreeing that technical correctness is a criterion, and once again I am particularly pleased that the Government notices that this time we are no longer restricting freedom to entrepreneurs and that we are equating conditions like those in other countries of Europe. The last time it was an opposition proposal, it wasn't like that. Well, if it's a good idea, let it happen anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69431	Thank you. In conclusion, on behalf of the motionary Mr Drazen Breglec, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69432	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we have heard a lot of constructive proposals in this debate, but also a lot of statements and sentences that are not based on facts. Before all in 2012, we can't say that there will be 46 thousand old vehicles because, of course, many of the vehicles that are old are going to fall, and new vehicles will come. The process is therefore such and should be provided for a legislative framework for the trend to be less vehicles in the future. It is not appropriate to suggest in a way that all old vehicles will remain on the road without any being bought. So this was essentially unethically spoken. But I do well to think that it should be entered into the core of actually the very intentions that are defined by the basic law in Article 6. We can all agree. We agreed, and I think, in discussions and when amending the laws or proposals for amendments to Mr. Pecek's laws and when proposing the law itself, and this time in this debate, that raising competitiveness is the only criterion that we can accept in the criteria or in the elimination of those vehicles that can participate, or that cannot participate in, traffic. It is certainly a fact, however, and there is also a reality that is currently in Croatia. The reality is that Croatia is at the door of the European Union. That the negotiations for chapter 14 of traffic with the "screening" procedure have begun. That the first phase of “screening” was carried out. That we are faced with many directives and regulations to be introduced and that, after that, after entering the single market, Croatian carriers will not happen if drastic and radical changes in a short way, in a short time they should be in a more difficult position than they should be. That's why we proposed to the law and sent a message that the fleet should be rejuvenate. That there's a need to raise competitiveness. This is provided for in Article 6(6), i.e. this is defined in Article 6 and the debate on this subject itself is already achieving its objective. Both today's debate and all these discussions in the last year and a half have achieved the goal because carriers have actually become aware that rejuvenation and competitiveness is always a survival in the strict operating conditions on the one hand, but also a great opportunity to take advantage of all the advantages that the single market offers on the other hand. What's the delay exactly until 1.1.2012? Here's one of the reasons why the delay in this way was and the foundation was actually a deal with the drivers themselves and with the profession. First of all, with their associations. One of these associations, therefore, the Croatian Chamber of crafts and the president of the Croatian Chamber of crafts, Stjepan Shaffran, with his colleagues, held a meeting with the minister and with me and the assistant, and we established this very way on April 13th. So I think the remarks when someone says it's not good, that craftsmen won't protect themselves in this way by postponing a regulation that actually triggers positive effects, I don't think they're standing. Therefore, all remarks in this direction actually clash with the interests of carriers, especially carriers associated in Croatia's craft chamber. Here, I've got a promotion from that meeting here, so she might as well be an insight into the interested. As regards several concrete remarks which were made, therefore, by the Government, in the meantime, this is explained. Therefore, the rules adopted in the meantime are set out, so the legislative framework has been completed. However, in practice trends did not follow not in such a fast and so short time they were not obtained those results that were expected and logically, it was an unusual move for this delay to happen again, I repeat in a way that was agreed with the largest, with association, so with the Croatian Chamber of craftsmen as associations which include the largest number of craftsmen or vehicles that belong to this category that could not be transported if the law had entered into force in its entirety. Also, there were also quite a few remarks concerning the Road Safety Act. If I do not now extend the subject in response to this, it should be said, however, that when the D2 sub-level was already mentioned, that the ban on the transport of vehicles in transit was in force, then the ban will be extended for each year. It is also important to mention the government's conclusion from a meeting two weeks ago held in Koprivnica that Croatia's roads are responsible for making a study of how, a cost-effectiveness study and choosing the best way to train and improve the state road D2 of the sub-level highway, certainly not in the parallel direction entirely, but on which shares and parallel direction, on which sections need to go around, where the technical procedures need to improve the technical characteristics of the vehicle. So we are not delaying a solution that was also suggested and we are not giving up on the solution. The solution is this transition period. That's exactly what the solution is. It is possible that, in full harmonisation of legislation with the European Union, we will have to shake the law of the European Union once we have a whole set of laws in line with the directives, we will surely have to shake the road transport law one more time in the next period, not to mention the new law, although it is in line in many elements. At that moment, we will assess the state of the fleet in the Republic of Croatia once again and see if it is necessary for this provision to remain as it is now proposed. There have also been several suggestions or expressed dilemmas about whether it is acceptable from the constitutional point of view to schooling, to make sure that driver training is mandatory only for new drivers and that the structures in the law allow those drivers who have already acquired that qualification before they retain and carry out driver’s duties. There are similar solutions in many areas related to where analogy can be withdrawn. Therefore, it is logical and often applicable solution that, at the time of setting a new higher standard, an existing condition is defined as valid how simply, through a certain period, what is actually required by law, which is that by stopping doing, by actively doing the driver's tasks, those who have not acquired the driver's calling simply stop doing so and that all the new ones who come also have that status or calling the driver. Here, I can finally say that I thank you for all those remarks concerning improving the existing text, that we will consider them with due attention. And finally, I want to say that we have taken certain concrete steps in terms of stimulating the renewal of the rolling stock. There is, as is known in the Energy Efficiency and Environmental Protection Fund, a substantial amount of money that is mainly used at the moment to raise standards of landfills or to collect, stimulate waste collection. However, this fund is being filled from traffic with almost 50%, and we agreed on this point and concluded that this could be a good and generous and certainly justified source of funds for a specific programme that will also help in this vehicle renewal process. In this regard, we intend to propose concrete measures within the shortest time period that the Government will consider and bring, and they will certainly be stimulating. On the other hand, whether tax is the best solution or whether it has an ecological, ecological rental mark as the terms were used here. We know it's certainly not a popular solution. I believe it's not good. Tax is always tax and compulsory. From the forwarding ministry of transport care, of course, that this measure could be assessed very unpopular and believe that it will also be assessed by the carriers, given that the source of the means from which the rolling stock in the Republic of Croatia could be improved is indicated, I am convinced that if this is well explained and suggested that you will see for yourself that the tax measures are not necessary in the introduction, but we will also consider this measure until the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69433	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Miroslav Rozic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69434	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Although it does not personally concern my debate, the Rules of Procedure in Article 214 have been injured. Indeed, the government's representative, in this case, cannot hold political lessons to MPs in a way that goes out for a pay phone and says, there have been a lot of inappropriate discussions. These are the grades that cannot be allowed here and you should have given Mr. Breglec a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69435	Article 214 speaks when a reminder is made. ... A reminder, and then are listed individual indentations here, including this 5, belittles either the president's insult or other MPs. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Is that what you thought? Well, I don't think that was the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69436	You know, it is really not usual in any Parliament for a representative of the government to assess the debates of MPs in a way "there have been a lot of inappropriate discussions". You'd also warn me if I said, "Listen, you're having an inappropriate discussion." You wouldn't? Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69437	My criterion is that "unsuitable" is not an offensive word. She may be a little critical, but she's not belittled. Let's move on. ... That's right, but when it's your turn, Mr. Zeljko Pecek comes first. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69438	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's a few things wrong, but one of the more important things is that this is how we change the law because we are faced with directives and screening Europe, which is not true. Which is not true, none of us ask for it but vice versa. Europe could only ask us to do what is now in the bill, say vehicles that are technically correct can only be a criterion. The second amendment is that through this amendment, we will achieve the competitiveness of the domestic economy involved in transport, which is ridiculous. This cannot be achieved by amending the Law but by the programmes that would help the sector because the main problem is the obvious replacement of the rolling stock, the amendments to the Law will not achieve this. Instead of 3 draft laws, it would be good for the ministry to make one proposal for a programme that would allow craftsmen and carriers to rebuild their fleet.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69439	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Representative and Vice-President Mr. Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69440	Mr. Vice President, I have to say that he's already been partially corrected by fellow Pecek, which is why I didn't think there was any need for me to correct that incorrect allegation once more. And in that respect, I will give up further correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69441	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Miroslav Rožić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69442	Thank you very much. I am correcting the inaccuracies of Mr. Secretary of State who said there are many examples in our legislation where analogy could be withdrawn where, when adopted in the new law, new standards at work remain those that meet old standards without schooling. Such an example does not exist in the law. All kinds of schooling is required if they stay at work, according to old standards.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69443	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69444	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act. I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Transport Act is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 86 votes for, 6 abstentions accepted the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69445	We move on to - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Forests, second reading, P.Z. No. 464. The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In the case of the adoption of this Act, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection, the Committee on Local and Regional, Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? He does. State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy Mr. Herman Sušnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69446	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Forests. These amendments shall primarily regulate property legal issues. Forests and forest land in the Republic of Croatia cover about 2 and a half million hectares or approximately 43.5% of the area. Forests are mastered by the principle of natural restoration and by the reforestation of unprocessed forest surfaces. Forests and forest land have economic, ecological and social importance, so it is very important that this space is managed in an extremely rational way, respecting all the components that I have cited. So, to protect space, not to close the possibility of development. Article 5 is prescribed that the Government or body which may have the authority to separate certain forests or forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia from the forest economic area and transfer ownership rights to another legal or natural person or establish the right to build. The Institute of Building Rights protects property over real estate, especially in the construction of infrastructure facilities, landfills of municipal waste and others. And it will be too difficult to make available the ownership of the Republic of Croatia. In relation to the observations from the first reading, it was accepted that there is an interest of the Republic of Croatia if the forest or forest land is to be singled out in order to implement a detailed plan of arrangements, which further protects forest land, clearly with the current regulation of giving the opinion of the Ministry to units of local and regional self-government on plans to edit space. In Article 6 of the founding of the service, the word "and similar" is put in place because it cannot predict exactly certain specific situations for which services will be provided in the forest and forest land, but the procedure and criteria for the establishment of this service will be prescribed by the Government. The granting of individual forest land will be decided by a body authorised by the Government according to the adopted criteria, not by the trading company of the Croatian Forests, as has been prescribed so far. The first reading is more clearly addressed to Articles 9 and 10 of the supervision and collection of the resources of the common useful functions of the forest. The demarcation of forests and forest land has also been regulated by the Law on Public Roads, but the addition of Article 15 of the Law on Forests and the overall work on separation will be carried out in the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy. We are interested in making sure that the items processed in one place know exactly what areas are given for which purpose and that the funds are monitored for transferred rights or temporary possession of forest land are used to purchase other forests or forest land or to take new forests as prescribed by the law of Article 55. So since 2003, 2004 and 2005, from this fee, this is about a thousand and 20 hectares of new forests and funds and compensation for these fewer profits. Also, about 400 hectares of forest have been purchased for the rights transferred, and this year, the procedure is through a public tender for the purchase of forests and forest land in the area of the Delnica forest administration, the management of Zagreb forest, and by the end of the year there will be also a purchase in the management area of Našica and Vinkovci Circka about 200 hectares.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69447	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, Mr. Representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69448	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. At today's 41st session, the Committee discussed the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Forests Act. The final proposal of the Law was discussed by the Committee as a parent body. Following the opening statement of the representative of the proposer and the representative of the Croatian Forest Society, the majority of the members of the Committee supported the adoption of that law. Its adoption will allow the Government of the Republic of Croatia to transfer only its own but also the right to build in the process of detaching forests and forest land for the purpose of building entrepreneurship zones and municipal infrastructure. The debate held that a forest balance should have been established before the adoption of this Act in order to determine the preservation of their capacities. On the basis of the debate held, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to the Croatian Parliament was held with a majority of votes of 2 abstentions and 5 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69449	Thank you very much. Do the other committees want it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative and Vice President Mr. Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69450	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. Let me read right away on behalf of our club. Unfortunately, the SDP advocates' club cannot support the adoption of this Act, and we will be against the adoption of this Act and for both economic reasons and constitutional and legal reasons, and let some of them turn to it. First, allow constitutional and legal reasons. The fact is that, under our Constitution, Article 124 is clearly prescribed that the State Attorney's Office is an independent and independent judicial body authorised and obliged to act against the perpetrators of criminal and other criminal offences, to take legal action in order to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia, and to apply the rights to the means to protect both the Constitution and the law. It is said here that Article 1 immediately at the beginning that it will no longer have to be given with the preliminary opinion of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia when, where this happens, or when certain forests and forest land can be used by the authorities of the state administration and legal person whose founder is the Republic of Croatia in a manner and subject to the conditions laid down by this Act. Look out, the Republic of Croatia is the founder of a large number of institutions and state administrations that can use such forests and forest land and without even prior opinion of the State's Attorney's Office that it can be established because... In fact, the Republic of Croatia allows this to be made possible if you want to qualify and even that part of the form of shared ownership, and in this respect the argument that this is not a matter of agreement on those lease agreements is not valid because, among other things, it is related to Article 7 or the amendment and the addition of Article 58, where an opinion on the legal validity of the contract from jurisdiction is required before the conclusion of the contract on the lease of forest land. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is not just about the lease of forest land, but about the use of something far more serious, which is why we feel it is necessary to at least keep the previous opinion if not the previous consent of the State's Attorney's Office to protect the interest of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, I am the property of the Republic of Croatia in relation to possible establishment through forms of shared ownership of certain power relations and benefits for collective users, institutions and other legal persons who are the founder of the Republic of Croatia. The second question on which we put economic reasons and social and political, political and legal and constitutional law is Article 5. It is amazing to say that the Government, or body which it has powers, of certain forests or forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia, is to transfer ownership rights to another legal and natural person if it says there are interests of the Republic of Croatia, and then in paragraph 4 of the same article that is being amended, Article 51, which is amended, states: "The procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article is to be initiated at the request of a legal or natural person whose benefit is changed." Now the question is, what's in force? The benefit of a natural and legal person whose benefit is transferred to power or is it the interest of the Republic of Croatia? Well, of course they will explain their benefits, not the interest of the Republic of Croatia. And the question arises, on what basis and what will the Institute of Enlargement of the Institute and Authorisation through the so-called so-called. The Institute of Self-Employment here which the Republic of Croatia is doing because it empowers itself and transfers power to it without any argument when it is believed that the interest of the Republic of Croatia is fulfilled in such situations and that it is then prescribed by this Act and to say so. None of this and it is quite clear that it actually opens up the possibility of great avalanche and recklessness, so if you want possible conjecture which simply cannot and must not happen, where it is actually under a state-interest company, and indeed in favour of what the law itself has written by a natural, or legal person whose benefit under the extradition procedure is transferred to ownership or detached forest and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia could simply not be accepted, we in such a situation... It's completely clear. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We do not mind to consider the possibility that the Law on Forests should be changed and complemented when there is an interest of the Republic of Croatia in building objects of particular importance for the Republic of Croatia that certain forest land and forests can then be singled out from under... The Republic of Croatia, even the Republic of Croatia and that they can be transferred, but then the question is how to actually restore... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In second place? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The third serious remark is related to the amendment and addition of Article 68, where it is said that in the future, the Republic of Croatia will now write as instead of the Government of the Republic, the Government as Founder, however, is then further prescribed that the regulation will set up an institution that will manage forests, etc. There's a question about what this is about because... The advisory service. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Gentlemen, it's simply a regulation that can't be done. We would like to remind you of Article 116. The constitution that says, quote, "The structure and affairs of the state administration, the way they are done is governed by law." Therefore, this is about administrative organisation, administration or administrative organisation at best, but it also writes "certain public administration affairs can be entrusted by law to the bodies of units of local, regional self-government and legal persons with public authority. Therefore, there is no chance of this being established by a regulation but must be a law and in this law it should be said the same. That's number one. Number two, it can't be said that the Republic of Croatia is like this, as the founder was illiterately written. So as soon as the law is passed by the Republic of Croatia, which is founded by the Republic of Croatia, then, of course, it is Croatia, but it must be said who is exercising the founding rights. This must be done by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And now we need to say a minimum of what this forest-counsel service will do to be set up by this law. The development of jobs and tasks under the law can then be done, but only the establishment and establishment should be passed by a special law. All these reasons point to the fact that the really important remarks we made in our first reading on this bill and particularly on constitutional and legal protection, on the protection of the economic interests of the Republic of Croatia and of course on the ecological protection of forests, forest land and forest funds have not been adopted and therefore the SDP's Club of Representatives will vote against this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69451	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69452	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of this law for the following reasons. The implementation of the Law on Forests has identified difficulties in resolving the requirements of legal and natural persons for the deforestation of forests and forest land from the forest economic area for the transfer of ownership rights or the establishment of the right of service on that land for the purpose of its use for other purposes. Therefore, the proposed Law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests regulates property and legal issues in the separation of forests and forest land for the purposes of demarcation for the purpose of building municipal infrastructure, entrepreneurship zones and other objects. A more detailed procedure for the establishment of services in the forest and forest land is being arranged. In addition to these two basic and large issues that were to be addressed by these amendments, the Proposer proposed that some other issues that are very important and important for the management and management of forests and forest land be regulated. So he suggests that natural persons who are forest owners are free from the obligation to pay compensation for the use of generally beneficial forests. In addition, the amendments to the laws are governed by the administrative procedure in the implementation of the laws and ways in which procedures are initiated under the provisions of the previous forest law. As you know, he was brought in 1993, he had about 12 changes and the latest changes were published in "The People's Newspaper" 160/04. the years as well as the ways to resolve the procedures under the current Law on Forests brought by this House last year. And since certain provisions are being amended, then it was also necessary to prescribe how they will be dealt with. In view of the first reading of this law, the applicant amended the text in Article 5(2) so as to consider that there is an interest in the Republic of Croatia if the forest or forest land is to be singled out in order to implement a detailed plan of regulation. The amendment was explained by the assessment that the acts adopted on the basis of spatial order documents are not a credible basis for determining the interest of the Republic of Croatia. We believe that this is a good solution because these acts are adopted on the basis of documents that self-organise the purpose of the surface and cannot read out of it a detailed purpose. The new Article 9 is amended as follows: In order to initiate the forced collection procedure, the company responsible shall be in accordance with specific rules. The method of accounting and payment deadlines referred to in Article 62(2) of the applicable Forest Act will be prescribed by the Minister. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The supervision under the provisions of the law was carried out by the Financial Agency. As the payment of this contribution is already controlled by the issuing of legal supporting documents for forest exploitation products issued by only the commercial company and the Forest Advisory Service, there is no need for that supervision to be carried out by the Financial Agency. The new Article 11 is amended and complemented by the provisions of Article 62(2) in a way that comply with the provisions of the Law on Institutions which are prescribed to be the founder of the institutions of the Republic of Croatia and, as this is a matter of forestry and advisory services and the establishment of the Government, it was necessary to amend Article 62(2) of this Act. The new Article 14 adds the way in which procedures under the provisions of the applicable law that would be completed under the provisions of this law are completed so far because certain provisions of the applicable law are amended. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on public roads with the provisions of this law in a way that the provision of the Law on Public Roads does not apply to the separation of forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia. And we consider this a good solution even though it could be changed by amending the Law on Public Roads. The Croatian Democratic Community Club considers that this proposal for a law which addresses all key issues related to the management and management of forests, and in particular to, the procedure for the resolution of property and legal matters in the separation of forests and forest land from the forest economic area and the transfer, whether owned or not the right to build or at the end of the line of use that these issues have been settled neatly and the Club will support the adoption of this Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69453	Thank you very much. It is up to the HSP Club and Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69454	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. This Law is proof that in the adoption of important laws in the Croatian Parliament, laws must always be passed in regular procedure. As a result, the HSP Club, together with other clubs, requested the removal of the emergency procedure when the final draft of the law appeared at the last session and was intended to bring it into an emergency procedure. And now it is evident that the pronoun himself admitted that there was a lot of inadequacy, indeterminateness that he had partially removed from the first reading in this second reading. The largest number of such indeterminations were indicated by my colleague Ledinski on behalf of the HSS Club and I on behalf of the Croatian Party of Rights Club, but the promoter will not admit it, but he says there have been these and these changes compared to the first reading. It wouldn't be hard if it were, you can see a phonogram, but it's not a big problem. It is essential that in many situations shortcomings have been removed, and many of the shortcomings in the first reading were such as to serve as a basis for various manipulations, manipulations, and all other illegal or legal acts because of the fact that the law was not laid down or was missing in many of its matters. Although the words have been removed, a number of shortcomings have been removed compared to the first reading and it is good that the Authority becomes an exception rather than a rule. In essence, those solutions are best when it comes to the issue of service and in other ways that are being dealt with in these other situations that are being spoken in these other articles. Articles 6, 7 and other articles where the situation is best. Why? Because the state remains the owner of this forest land, or forest, and whoever uses it in the form of a service has an obligation to put in a state of deforestation and everything else in order not to reduce the forest fund. Now, unfortunately, the solutions contained in Article 5 did not explain enough what the interest of the Republic of Croatia is, or that it is of general interest when it comes to the issue of extradition. Why do I say that? Because exorcism is essentially a sale. So the state is getting rid of it. When it says "own" it means "state" is selling it now. Will they sell it to the municipality, the city? Is he going to sell to some legal person? But it's basically a simple dictionary said it's about selling. The problem is that the interest of the Republic of Croatia when it comes to the Law on Excretion and when it was taken is measured, when it is related to the construction of the meaning of infrastructure and what is necessary, there is a simple situation in determining that part and perhaps it was necessary to improve these provisions a little bit and to say that the general interests are primarily determined in accordance with the Law on Execution which precisely lists what is the general interest, and how can this be done? Why do I say that? Because you have put here in Article 5(2) of the Implementing Regulation in order to implement the detailed arrangements. See why? Because in many situations, I have said this more than once in this assembly in Istria, the cities and municipalities usurped the forest land owned by the state of Croatia. So under the cover of general property, they were registered as owners in the garter. After that, they sold it to the authorities in the area with no money. And after that, they changed the urban plan and that, and they determined the area where the building is allowed. Mahom is up the Adriatic coast. And now they mean, these items are located at the State's Attorney's Office but apparently that the State's Attorney's Office from 1999 to today has done nothing about it because in these situations they should protect the meaning of the interest and property of the Republic of Croatia and now all those who, and to succeed the State's Attorney's Office in this dispute to book a state owned by all of them, will through this part of the implementation of the detailed plan of the arrangement because already, such plans have been made. So under such plans in these areas already exist, they can do this part of legalization and everything else. Now an even bigger problem arises from all this when it comes to expropriation. It may take 9, 10 years to enquire in certain areas. Some can last nine, ten years. It can take a lot shorter on others. And you know what the problem is? The problem is that these rules regarding compensation are not passed, are not laid down by law, but determined by the sublaw adopted by the minister. So this sublaw regulation is passed by the minister, and the problem is in such situations that, in the sublaw, it does not go towards the market price in this area, so the tax administration has data relating to the transport of real estate in the area, but rather determine prices, like kuna meter square, and we know what the market situation is. And what is it, why is that a problem? The problem is that Croatian forests are used to buy new surfaces and to replace them. If one part of the forest is ruled out, then the Croatian forests have a task under the Law on Forests, meaning on the other part, that new forest surfaces must be formed so as not to reduce the number of surfaces under the forests. And for that reason, the same problem is that this is determined by the Underlaw of the Minister instead of establishing these criteria and criteria here, as is said when it comes to the exemption under the Law of Execution. And there are no colleagues here too, Arlovic, he had a little wrongly commented on Article 11, and is related to the amendment of Article 68(2). It is not what he thought, namely, the Forest Advisory Service is a specialised public institution for the affairs of the Forest Advisory Service and it already exists. So it's nothing new, that public institution already exists. The promoter put it here, in his former article 68 was that he was the founder of the government. It is more appropriate that the founder is the normal Republic of Croatia, but this text behind what is now in Article 11 says that the words "Government" means that they replace this as the founder with "Republic of Croatia", and is the founder of the government with their regulation. There's no need because that public institution already exists, that surplus so you can fix this part freely with your amendment. Because it exists, it's like that introduced into the register, it works, it's okay and there's no need for the government to establish something that's already established and what works. So, it's not that kind of thing, I'm just saying, it's just that it's been kind of awkwardly legal for all of it. Therefore, it is important now, in all these things, to achieve one complete and complete supervision because I say, certain provisions are still missing, mainly this concerning the determination of interest and everything else, so as not to allow or create the possibility of opening up some new manipulations that will go against the interests of both the Republic of Croatia and the municipalities and cities that they want to set up in certain areas of business zones. And for the funds to be received and collected from this, for compensation, it would be used to buy new surfaces, i.e. to store new surfaces. In this way, the inspector must, therefore, take measures to monitor these situations in due time, determine all these situations and procedures that will be required by the adoption of this Act. And another objection, and it concerns that we are essentially still not in line with the legal gains of the European Union, and that is the part that remains for you. I say, the legal text is far better than it was in the first reading, but there are still possibilities of manipulation, and that's why it's important that the proposer reacts there about these things that I said on its own. So that the sublaw of the minister is not more important and stronger than the law and that it monitors the solutions to the Law of Exclusion in order to prevent all possible manipulations in due time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69455	Thank you very much. We have one correction, Mr. Walter Poirot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69456	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Kovacevic said, if I followed well, that some towns in Istria owned agricultural land, had entered into a part of the agricultural land, and that they had then sold it. That's just not true. Some towns in Istria have managed to enroll in their ownership that land that did not enter the core capital of some tourist companies, and then, under the second law, that tourist land, or agricultural land, entered the property of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69457	Thank you. The HSS Club, Mr. Representative Zeljko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69458	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Let us have a few words on the amendments to the Forest Act that we have been talking about several times in this term. Well, first of all, I'd say on behalf of the HSS Club that we're not going to be able to support this bill's proposal and that we're going to be held back, and I'm going to try to explain in this short time why. First of all, a few months ago we passed more precisely 17.11. last year the Forest Act, the new one that was then in line with, had the label "P.Z.E.", meaning it was in line with European laws. After a few months, today we have a bill that clearly does not comply with European laws, and I must say that the goal, as far as I know all forest policies in Europe, is to increase the area under the forest. We are today passing a law on amendments and additions to laws that will drastically reduce areas under the forest that the Republic of Croatia today has. I do not doubt that it is necessary in some parts, and the HSS Club agrees that it is necessary to give the right of service to increase the area under the olive trees, under the vineyards, and we believe that this is justified. But also when we get there, and we come up with the possibility of establishing services, the Institute of Service and the Institute of Construction, we're going to come up with a significant reduction of surfaces under the forest, and we're not going to get adequate compensation for it at the same time. In my opinion, an adequate fee would be the one that would contain a market value. Then we wouldn't have had what we had, just before, the case that a colleague, here's a colleague Kovacevic mentions that someone signed up in Istria, and a colleague from Istria says he didn't sign up for forest land. If the right value had been determined, we would have raised another forest somewhere else that had its value and from that real market value, it could have been raised. A fellow secretary of state said how many surfaces were raised in the short term, which were purchased. These are significant quantities that came from the funds that I would say only through the revenues of the State Forest Undertaking because they are strictly used. I know it's been around a hundred million kunas for the last 10 years, which is a significant asset and these funds are being invested further. These funds would be even more significant and greater if the 97 Law on Public Roads did not allow public roads and public areas not to be charged. It would be so much bigger. And let me remind you, and I've said this a few times, that we have lost 15 thousand acres of forest from Zagreb to Split, which is not very little. It's one significant area, and on the other hand when we say that a thousand acres is restored somewhere a lot, we say that it's a lot and on the other hand, because we made it possible in this House by passing the law to make it possible not to pay the fee, we came to a significant loss of one part of the area, specifically in the case of these 15,000 hectares. What will happen in the coast after this law is passed? I know the interests are great, a lot of services will be approved for various purposes and will be allowed as well through detailed urban plans to allow the Institute of Construction rights on many surfaces. I don't doubt that it's necessary on that part of the coast, it's safe, I especially believe that it will be through urban plans and implemented in such a way, but I also think that we all have to take care that our basic areas under the forest are not less. In that part, I think it would be good to restrict the availability and transfer of ownership to other legal persons and should be one important and stricter control especially when the issue of compensation is practically becoming a sublegal act, because we are not saying anywhere that the compensation will be determined by the relevant tax administration according to market values. I think that, and we've already had cases of regulations being passed where one hectare is said to be given for one, one square for one kuna and even a hectare for some lower values, whether for zones, whether for a golf course or for some other purpose that's going to happen on forest land. In that part, I think it would be better if this act was not confirmed by some regulation, and if it does not stand to be used by the Institute of Tax Administration and to establish a market value through it, then it will be bad for all forestry and we will remain permanently without much of the forest area. Respecting that all that had been said about that often there were words from individual fellow MPs that the forests were holding back some kind of development, the forests were not as a state-owned enterprise but clearly that it was owned by the state and the state had the right and to have it safe, but in that part I think we have to take care of what we're going to leave behind our generations. Are they going to be able to say that, by the noise of the larger countries in Europe, it's a percentage, today this noise with private forests is 44%, but it seems to me that in the coming times we won't be able to say it because we will be able to say that we are somewhere in the woods of the middle state compared to the percentage of the noise we have. Because of all that I have stated, and especially because the law does not comply with European laws and with the conferences and conventions that we are signatories, I think it is not good to go over this and therefore the HSS Club will be abstention in voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69459	Thank you very much. It's the IDS club, Mr. Representative Walter Poirot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69460	Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Mr. Assistant Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Forests and forest land in the Republic of Croatia cover 2.5 million hectares, which means about 43% of the area of the Republic of Croatia. This data is very clear that the Republic of Croatia is rich in forests, and even internationally recognised the fact that 95% of the forest area is natural. It is precisely because of these facts that our responsibility is even greater to protect the forest and to master it in the best possible way and most importantly to further restore and forest the unprocessed forest surface wherever possible. The proper way of management supports the biological balance, but also meets the international conventions that we are signatories to. Such management requires higher levels of expertise and significantly higher investments than modern methods of raising culture and plantation. The development of forestry in the context of European Union policy gives the importance of forest eco-systems in the qiuto protocol and the increasing burden on various harmful factors a special dimension in which Croatia's forestry policy and our country's development strategy should be integrated. Functional changes within society, emerging social economic circumstances, the obligation to comply with the laws of the European Union and to novelise them due to a number of changes and additions over the past decade require amendments to the Law on Forests. It should be based on the conventional principle of forest management with respect to the provisions, directives and conventions which we are signatories and also make our forestry and wood industry competitive in the demanding market of the developed world. Therefore, this means that the law should also assume the most favourable way of managing forests under the circumstances of long-awaited decentralisation, the development of wood industry, the restriction of nature protection, the expansion of the construction area to forest space, etc. That is why we at the IDS Club think that caution is never enough when expressing the desire for Croatian forestry to become competitive on the foreign market. In order to achieve better results on free market conditions, etc. etc. I don't want to pick it up. So when we are trying to achieve competitiveness with natural resources such as forests, then we must be very careful that the result does not go to harm natural resources, i.e. sustainable management of market principles does not become a myth. I would like to say that in practice, we must find the right measure for market and sustainable, so that we do not have to sacrifice the quality and quantity of our forest resources in the long term for short-term gains, and the resulting and resources of water and soil. Repeatedly, the resulting resources of water and soil because the direct link between the forest, water and soil is very important. And to go back to the proposed Law on Amendments and additions to the Law on Forests. It says it primarily regulates property-legislative issues. Therefore, the amendment of Article 51 allows the Government of the Republic of Croatia to make use of the process of issuing forests and forest land for the purpose of building entrepreneurship zones, municipal infrastructure, so roads, waterways, wastewater purifiers, etc. not only the ownership but also the right to build or other act on the basis of which it is believed that the interest of the Republic of Croatia is established, but of course we must always bear in mind that the same cannot be used for other interests and projects that would go to forest damage, because I agree that the establishment of entrepreneurship zones in forests should not be completely banned, but we must not put ourselves in a situation to devast the forest under the name of economic development. Because the generally useful functions of the forest cannot be accurately calculated in monetary units as well as damage when the forest is irrevocably exploited. Due to the exceptional overall importance of the forest, and in particular for maintaining the quality of soil and water quality, forest management must not be reduced to the level of goods for the free market. Due to the great diversity of plant and animal species as a result of the forest tradition of more than 150 years old, there must be an example for us to take on an even greater burden of responsibility and to protect our natural forest resources. My colleagues and colleagues, I believe that the law must remove any misunderstandings such as in Article 6 of this proposal, which relate to Article 57. The law on forests where the words "and similar" are added, because it can be similar to infrastructure facilities, but not a similar point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69461	Thank you. Dear Representative Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69462	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. If we bear in mind that through an incomplete year, the Law on the Forests has already been adopted for the fifth time on the agenda, so at the end of last year, through two readings, we passed the Law on the Forests, and now this is the third reading of the amendment and addition of the same Law. This means only one thing, and therefore it was not what was wanted, and it is actually best seen from the assessment of the situation and the basic issues that are regulated by the law. So, what is changing in this proposal to amend and supplement the law? In particular, only two articles governing property and legal issues of Article 51 and Article 91 are replaced, and that is what is really important. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that The law allows the Government of the Republic of Croatia to transfer not only ownership but also the right to build in the process of detaching forests and forest land for the purpose of building entrepreneurship zones, municipal infrastructure and others, and determines the type of spatial plan, i.e. another act on which the interest of the Republic of Croatia is deemed to be established. More detailed arrangements are being made for the establishment of services in the forest and forest land, and the amendment of Article 91 speeds up and allows for the completion of all procedures initiated under the provisions of the old Forest Act, although this has been warned in the debates, so it is not clear why this was not foreseen in the old law, since it is clear to everyone that they are concerned, or that the requirements for granting services on forest land which have been filed in the period until the old law was in force should be settled under that law, and not that hundreds of hectares of the land sought for the second year lie abandoned, unprocessed. It is good that this proposal will amend and supplement the Law and that will finally be resolved, and that means that it will increase the processing surfaces. This is actually and I have to agree, this is actually a good proposal to amend and supplement the law because, like any good law, it opens up greater opportunities for forest and forest land. This proposal amends and complements the law, and there would be no major objections as it allows for the possibility of transfer of ownership. That there are no arguments which clearly reveal the intentions of the proposings in which it is explicitly said that, in accordance with the conclusion of the Committee on Property of the Government of the Republic of Croatia from 8 February 2006, inter alia, and in relation to entrepreneurship zones and property-legal relations, it will be resolved by the application of another legal institute, not by transfer of ownership, and that is the problem. This means only one thing, that those who built and were the bearers of all activities in the construction of entrepreneurship zones, which are almost in all cases in the rule of the unit of local self-government. Therefore, they cannot be end-users or owners and cannot sell land through a public tender to interested entrepreneurs in areas. I can give investors the right to build, and that didn't give them any results anywhere. Here is the question of all questions, will the entrepreneur invest its own funds or credit in building a production plant on a foreign country in an entrepreneurial zone? The answer is negative, and it is based on previous attempts that have not yielded results. The best evidence for this at least when Split-Dalmatia County is the City of Sinj, an attempt by the city to give up to investors according to the construction rights model, has actually resulted in no contract signed so far. In contrast to this model, land sales to entrepreneurs in areas have been confirmed in practice. Thanks to it, 10 entrepreneurial zones have been utilityly equipped in Split-Dalmatia County, dozens of power plants that employ over 2,000 workers have been built. I note that all entrepreneurship zones in the Split-Dalmatia County are built in a quarry and there can be no talk of devastation of forests and now if it is known that there was no abuse of land in the system of purchases cheaply, the sale is expensively asked by whom, for whom and for whom do we keep land from our citizens who want to build plants and employ people? At the same time, foreigners can buy banks, hotels, businesses, but we're all guarding the country in a way that our citizen can't own the country he's building the plant on. There's something wrong, which is, and whoever's hiding behind this way of keeping the country so that I can't buy it from our entrepreneurs is hard to say for sure, we can only guess. It is not clear why the promoter has decided to abandon the model so far to assign forest land to units of local self-government that are holders of the construction of entrepreneurship zones at the price of one kuna per hectare that has received excellent results in our county. If the Government insists on the implementation of Article 51 as explained, then, in my deep conviction, it is practically questioning the continuation of the construction of existing zones and the construction of new ones. It is certainly not in the interest of our citizens and I would say the Government of the Republic of Croatia. What gives hope is that this law gives the government the opportunity to transfer ownership of forest land to units of local self-government, so it will no longer need to change the law but only to undo, change or improve the reasoning that the intention is not to transfer ownership to units of local self-government. I'm sure that argument won't last long. Unfortunately, until this happens, there will be no new plants and new jobs in entrepreneurship zones. So, let me get this straight. The proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Forests is good, leaves all the possibilities to the Government, and also that forest land can be transferred to local self-government units and that is why I will still give my vote and I will vote for this law, but I would really pray because it is not really in anyone's interest and the least of the entrepreneurs, so I say in our county it is about the stonesmith, so it is building. So he couldn't even raise mortgage loans, nothing if he didn't own the property. Believe me, they'll rarely decide to borrow, invest in that plant without owning the land on which that plant is located. I'm saying, it's a good bill, I'll back it up, and I hope this argument doesn't last long. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69463	Thank you. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. She's gone, she's losing her word. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69464	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues! I will partially repeat my debate that I had when I first read this bill, because the simple meaning of this law is to amend and supplement it in Article 5 of the final bill. So, the government suggests that we open the holes in the Parliament to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia when it comes to the forest as a special value for the Republic of Croatia. What does the government tell us? Give us Bianco, establish an interest in every business zone, that this area is of interest to the Republic of Croatia. This is literally the case because Article 6(5) of Article 51, which is amended, states that the Government, or body that it has the power to make certain forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia, will separate from the forest economic area and transfer it to ownership of another legal or natural person and establish the right to build. Therefore, it can also transfer ownership and establish the right to build if there is an interest in the Republic of Croatia. It's all good now. But it is believed, the government says there is an interest, so we say it is, we give you the Bianca right, and every entrepreneurial zone we establish the special interest of the Republic of Croatia. So that's the presumption of chasing de jure, we can't even say otherwise. And he adds that this interest except for the facilities of importance for the defence of the Republic of Croatia and the marking of the site of mass graves and victims of the Homeland War is now adding to the implementation of a detailed plan for the planning of space. That's the point of change. So, the government says gentlemen in the Parliament you are hereby authorised to determine the interest of the Republic of Croatia by law, but since it is easier for us to do so through this form and the municipalities, the cities will establish detailed urban plans for you to bring us bianco that every entrepreneurial zone is of interest to the Republic of Croatia. Do we representatives in the Croatian Assembly agree with that view? Moreover, it should be added that all of this will be implemented under the Law of Execution which we discussed here last Friday in the Croatian Parliament where the authorisation can be arranged if there is a greater interest in the users of the expropriation than the owners of that land. Therefore, an interesting reason is being introduced for expropriation, not interest, of the Republic of Croatia's particular interest. I don't think that's acceptable either because of us and our position here but I don't think it's acceptable for the sustainable development of the Republic of Croatia either. Then we should not have marked the forests as special treasure, special value for us and future generations, so with special value for the Republic of Croatia. Of course, we cannot be so cruel because life imposes some changes, some needs, but we have already established that because the spatial plans in the Republic of Croatia do not bring local units without the consent of the Ministry, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And with spatial plans, there's space. But we put it down with no more spatial plans than a detailed urban plan. Urbanism is otherwise a lower form of planning than spatial planning and how it is to be another good medium that diversifies the interest of the Republic of Croatia in favour of individuals, lobbys or anything, or perhaps the Government already knows where it is necessary to build some entrepreneurial zones either in cities or municipalities. But for such knowledge, the Government must not make a general regulation at the expense of the current and future citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I think this law really just made a hole in the interests of the Republic of Croatia and I will not, of course, support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69465	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Vukic. Here you go. I beg your pardon? Yeah, sorry, sorry. Please, it was a replica, it was. Dear Representative Zdenko Antesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69466	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues! My colleague Leko spoke very vividly in fact in some way about the intention of this Law and its effects which he could produce, however, if we look back a few months of the laws adopted in this Parliament, so I would like to mention, for example, the Transport Act, on line-line, maritime transport. Then the Household Activity Act and then the Proposal for a Law on the National Bank which, unfortunately, is not yet discussed. Then the Law on Property and Real Rights and the Law on Extortion cannot inevitably be taken away from the impression that it is actually one total liberalisation of everything and everything in Croatia. It is not a tragedy to open up space for foreigners, foreign capital to some factories, some facilities, and so on, but what is now being done is national wealth and it opens up exactly the space to be in them, so that according to the government's discretionary decision, spaces are opened for the entry of foreigners or some capital is not at all relevant to foreign or domestic so that, in some ways, this national wealth is infested. Governments and parliaments that care about national interests do not act in this way but introduce, for example, the institute of long-term concessions as a form of permanently protected national goods in England. So I'm saying that this law, as well as the laws that I've listed earlier, is certainly not on the trail of protection of national interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69467	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69468	Thank you very much. The esteemed colleague, however, did not adopt the provision of Article 52 of the Croatian Parliament. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia without having any effect in nature neither now nor for future generations. This Regulation shall enter into force on the The Constitution of the Republic is also talking about how to preserve sustainable development in the Republic of Croatia for future generations. That is why he cited goods that are of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia and not to this generation of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. You're right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69469	Dear Representative Ivan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69470	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed Law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests deals primarily with property and legal issues. More detailed and transparent arrangements are being made for the availability of forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia and the transfer of rights over them. The proposal, from the law of the proposal, is visible who manages and who can dispose of state property. It is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's professional in forest and forest land? It is the state-owned enterprise of the Croatian Forest. In these amendments, the powers of supervision, records, monitoring and conditions in forest and forest operations are also placed in the jurisdiction of one body of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy. While it has been in the jurisdiction of several bodies and institutions so far. This reduces and speeds up the procedure of establishing services on forest land to raise years of plantations, build infrastructures and similar procedures, and has been obtained in transparency and facilitated the control of important natural forest resources. We remember a lot of examples from the practice that the separation from the economic base without this law and also for business zones in order to manage and land, and the sale of land in business zones lasted for several years with great efforts from the unit of local self-government and also from state institutions. The government's intention to protect state property, forests and forest land from sale has been brought to life through the Institute for the establishment of the right to build in isolation. While the solution so far has been automatically transferred to ownership after the separation. I support the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Forests because it contributes to the preservation of the interest of the Republic of Croatia. Through the protection of its assets and the protection of natural resources, as well as the procedures in which economic and other interests occur in cases where they justifiably make it transparent and what is more important is more efficient. This contributes to the development and economic progress of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69471	Thank you. Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac. At 17.33, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69472	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here in the past seven months, this is the fifth debate on the Law on the Forests, which points to the sensitivity and importance of the matter in question. In the first place, because forests are a renewable resource and as many and lastingly affecting man, the environment and the overall life. Therefore, the approach to the Law itself if we speak in general is cautious and I would say conservative, and it is precisely for the preservation of forests that have special meaning for the Republic of Croatia. At the same time, however, we must be aware that the preservation and protection of forests must not be brakes, it must not be a limiting factor in sustainable economic development and I believe that it should be reconciled and that this Bill proposal is also done, to reconcile the views on the one side of the forest forest protection but on the other hand, because forests must be in the function of economic development and better life. Let me briefly refer to Article 5 of the amendment and addition of the Law or Article 51 of the current law on entrepreneurship zones. I believe that the proposal states where both institutes are allowed; the Institute means transfer of ownership and the Institute of Construction Rights. However, only the reasoning points to something else, and if we look at experiences in the Republic of Croatia in terms of entrepreneurship zones in the last 10 years then we will see where ownership has been transferred, votes and results better. This is also the case in the County of Split-Dalmatia in the area of Dupolja, Dicma, where the number of employees as well as the equipment and functionality of these zones can be carried out through ownership, i.e. through the transfer of ownership of units of local self-government. On the other hand, it is more acceptable for investors when it comes to long-term investment and when it comes to re-use of space, when it comes to pawn law and obtaining credit on certain properties. The units of local self-government are certainly transferred by ownership, the state's concessions are placed in the position that when the same land is sold to the owners, there are significant assets and these funds are again in the function of investments in the zone where de facto every kuna obtained for the land is returned to the resolution of infrastructure and municipal equipment in the zone itself. The right to build has its weak side, and I think we all have to agree. We all know that depreciation for certain buildings is 1.5% a year, it's prescribed. In other words, it takes 66 years for a certain construction facility to be amortised. What is also asked if we are talking about technologies of production that involve high and sophisticated technology is a question whose facilities are, after the construction rights have expired, whose they are. Whether units of local self-government are owned or still owned by investors. This is the question that needs to be answered practically by regulations, because we need to know that both the first year and the 40 or 50 when the deadline expires, the concession deadline, that is, when the deadline for building rights expires, the institution of building rights, these facilities, these plants must be in its function otherwise they have no purpose and that is what many investors want to avoid. I therefore believe that no one is eligible for investors but is simply a matter of necessity and I believe that it will need to adopt regulations on this matter which will mean, on the one hand, the preservation of forests, forest land, and on the other hand, which will be in the function of the economy. Either in one case or in another, we must be aware that the moment the land is put into operation, either through the Institute of Building Rights or through the Institute of Property, what de facto is no longer forest and talk about forest and forest land then becomes deplaced. It is also declassified to talk about the protection of the interests of the Republic of Croatia because people have to build, work, I simply believe that we need to create new jobs based on new knowledge, new technologies, and this will only enable us to put all potentials of Croatian society, so the forest is a function of a better life. That's why I think the law, the proposed law itself, is good. On the one hand, care is taken about the protection of forests and forest land, and on the other hand it must also be in the function of the economy and this is the only way to reconcile these two options on the one hand the economy, and on the other hand the foresters, or those people who are engaged in the conservation of the forest and whose state the Republic of Croatia has checked it. It is deplaced to speak regardless of which representatives are concerned, whether it is a position or an opposition, that this proposed law does not go in that direction, it goes in the direction and protection of the forest, but certainly in my view, given the experience we have in Dalmatia, it is necessary to prefer the transfer of ownership when it comes to entrepreneurship zones, mainly when we talk about forests which are in areas where we live in the region of Dalmatia, de facto they are not. I hope that by passing this law we will start some things with a dead letter on paper and that the regulations resulting from this law will be in the function of the Croatian economy and of the Croatian man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69473	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Walter Poirot.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69474	Thank you, Mr. President. Yeah, my fellow Bitunac said it nicely. However, Article 57 states: "In the forest or forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia, the right of service can be established for the purpose of the construction of water, sewerage, gas pipeline, electricity lines, exploitation of mineral raw materials, the pursuit of tourist activity, livestock and game farming" and now Article 6 says: "wilders" are added the words "similarly". I reacted because "like" we had similar examples of turning it into something else. What I'm saying is that "similar" would be good if behind "similar" being "like infrastructure facilities" and then we avoid all of these things that someone wants to pollemise any way we want. I support what you've said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69475	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69476	That my colleague Poropat you spoke, I actually turned more in my presentation and talked more about working areas as such, and not now about the right of service. This is about the right to build, or transfer ownership. I'm glad we agree in that part and I think that in your presentation on behalf of the club when you said you said what's most important is that the forests should be preserved on the one hand as a wealth of special state interest, as a renewable resource, but on the other hand it must be in the function of the present and future generations and transfer of ownership. The transfer of ownership to units of local self-government and the sale of that same land to end-users because in any case they are of interest to the Republic of Croatia, however everything remains demagogy as we speak. I agree with this suggestion of yours, and I believe that the legislator will have it in mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69477	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. She's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his word. And the esteemed representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69478	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So allow me a few sentences regarding this Final Bill of Amendments and additions to the Law on Forests, although many speakers have already pointed out before me that I'm already too often discussing this law, but I don't think it's a waste to repeat certain things. First of all, I would like to point out that Croatian forests, i.e. The forests in Croatia are something which is something to all of us who are here I would say in the domain of this activity were we or we were able to talk about the woods, it can certainly be said of pride. What was done in the forests to preserve this resource I have personally repeatedly not only in Croatia but also in the world pointed out that all those who are in this activity, especially our foresters can be proud of it because such resources rarely the state has. We thank that to all those who certainly made one of their great contributions to history in that part, and I think that's good. But I'm afraid what we're trying to do with these changes and supplements isn't good. It's not good in that context, although I can't say that yet this bill that we have now as a final version of ourselves hasn't improved a bit compared to what was in the first reading, but it's not enough for all of us to be safe here, to protect ourselves in a certain way what we're proud of and what, my personal opinion, we have to leave behind the generations. We did not inherit it in a way that was devastating but that we inherited it in a way that we tried to protect and leave as much as possible. I accept the thinking of those who have repeatedly set an example here, I would say, something we call forest, but we could primarily say forest land under a maquis. That means, it refers to that part of Croatia down in the south or those parts where it is not about forests. But honestly, I'm afraid we didn't define it too clearly in the law. The law is general because it refers to all areas, and we are absolutely sure that it will not happen anywhere in the centuries, and even after this detailed plan that needs to be determined before will not be destroyed because of some entrepreneurial activity that will either be or will not be or will be able to assess it now, it is extremely difficult to say. In particular, I don't think it's a good idea to have certain things that were said here in replicas. They're referring to something like that, I don't think it should happen like this in the law, if we were able to get through something in any way that we couldn't explicitly, in detail, control. In particular, I am paying particular attention to the part relating to the use of mineral raw materials, services and use of mineral raw materials. I'm afraid it's not appropriate, anyone who knows what's going to happen to such a surface knows it can't be a service, it's something else anyway. Experiences are bad in this regard, I'm afraid that if we don't provide enough, even though examples of guarantees of certain things are listed here, of certain things to be provided, I'm afraid we'll be left with great devastations in the woods, and spaces that will not be recovered afterwards, and individuals will use it in terms of the exploitation of mineral raw materials. The law allows, opens in a small way. I'm afraid that door when it's so exposed we still can't tell what damage it's going to do. Not contesting that he is definitely going in a positive direction with intent, but I fear that this part of good intentions for entrepreneurship must not be fooled in terms of development when it comes to forests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69479	Thank you. And final review, Secretary of State Herman Sušnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69480	Thank you very much, Mr. President, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. Here, in the end, allow me just a few words to look back on these changes and supplement the forest laws. First, I'd say about the Forest Advisory Service. This article is in line with the Law on Institutions. It is clear that the founder of the Forest Advisory Service of the Republic of Croatia,... He's ruling his regulation 10 days ago. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There was talk here that the surfaces of the forest would drop drastically. I don't think they're going to shrink drastically. Here is only in the last 5 years, meaning from 2000 to 2005 as far as highways are concerned, according to the Croatian Forests, 2,000 and 800 hectares of forest and forest land have been allocated. It is clear that more land is isolated because other types of land, from building, private, agricultural, but as far as forests and forest land are concerned, are 2,000 and 800 hectares. And I think all the miles we've made and what we're going to do are not some of the more significant surfaces to be said to be at the expense of them that will drastically reduce the forest surfaces. It's clear that every single thing that's going to happen is important to get them under control. That's why we put it on, I stressed that these actions will take place under the auspices of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, meaning in one place, in order to control exactly what is set out, for which it stands out, whether this fee is paid where it should be and whether it is clearly used adequately in that function for which it is intended. If the law were not in conformity, the law is in line with the European Union. Here are the changes and additions, it is essentially about 3 articles and the last screening around rural development where our forest activity at least objected was just about the laws in forestry. Around the entrepreneurship zones, the government will make its decisions whether it will be, giving the possibility of both the right to build and transfer ownership. If there's a right to build, I don't think there's going to be anything going on here to invest, investors are going to give up on investments. If these investments are justified, if people are interested in it they will continue to invest, the right to build will probably be given to 50, perhaps years. That's enough years to fertilize that investment, so I don't think there should be any too many disturbances about building a business zone itself. However, so far, the least interest in forests and forest land has been the construction of business zones. It's more about other land, so here in 2005 we had seven demands. It's cca 200 acres of area of business zone, and it's solved 3 requirements about 70 hectares. So it's also not some kind of area I don't know now that's huge but some kind of normal that I don't think is too big again. The detailed planning of the arrangements is much more detailed than the spatial plan, and this is the last time we accepted this provision. Mr. Leco first reads it and made that remark and we installed it in this final, final bill of law. It's similar, it's thought of very similar infrastructure facilities. Of course there are some things that will have to be solved on, I don't know, wind power plants, poles all kinds of things. So we can't freeze a simple state so that for every new object or case we have to reopen those changes and additions. We see how hard and hard it is until changes and changes of each law are made. Finally, I can say that there will be no distortion of sustainable forest management in the Republic of Croatia, and also this Law will not prevent further possible development so that I think it will be all right with one good and quality control of the whole process.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69481	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Now we're going to vote on discussed bill proposals and other acts. First, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Forests. The amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Mršić. Please, let's get on with it. State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture Herman Sušnik is being shown about the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69483	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Government does not accept the amendment, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia will, by a special decision, determine the resolution of property-legal relations on land owned by the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of construction, and provide for the purpose of which this institution of ownership will apply while other cases will be subject to the right of ownership of other legal and natural persons. Article 5 of the Law proposed in addition to the transfer of property rights requires the possibility of establishing a right to construction, and one and the other must be in accordance with spatial order documents, which we believe is sufficient protection of property owned by the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69484	Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69485	So I'm surprised you don't accept this amendment since the government has made a decision not to sell out state land. By this law you foresee not to sell the forest but to give it to the forest. Therefore, in my amendment, I propose that the only right of construction can be based on forest land and that it cannot be transferred or sold to other legal and physical persons. After all, here's the last meeting of the government in Koprivnica, and we haven't won a shovel of land, we've only got the right to build. Therefore, I see no reason why the government in law would bear that the forest could be donated, and on the other hand it boasts that it would not sell out state land. I ask that votes be voted on on this amendment and that we determine the credibility of the Parliament on whether or not we will give authority to the Government to sell out and give up forests or we will say that the forests are not to be given and sold to anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69486	Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 25 for, 14 abstentions, 53 against the amendment has not been adopted. Well, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, do you follow the vote? The amendment didn't go through. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The result? With 76 votes for, 3 abstentions and 17 against the proposed law. Let's go to the next point, - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Inland Water Navigation, First Reading, P.Z. No. 512. The Proposer is the Government. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, maritime, transport and communications. State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development Branko Bacic will further explain the bill's proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69488	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Inland water navigation practically amends, proposes to amend the basic Inland Waters Act adopted in 1998. This Law established, i.e. a regulated legal framework for the activity of internal navigation, in relation to inland navigation in the Republic of Croatia, the security of navigation was regulated by the interstate, international state framework that regulates the navigation system itself, basic and material legal relations with respect to vessels, vessel registration procedures, transport, shipping operations, navigation accidents, captains and surveillance of navigation security in the Republic of Croatia. Later amendments and additions to the Law adopted in 2003 meant the harmonisation of the Law of '98. the years with the relevant directives of the European Union, and the fundamental practical intention and intention of amending the Act was the establishment of the Agency as an implementing body in accordance with the Law on Institutions in the Republic of Croatia, which allowed the establishment of the Agency itself, as I said to a single regulatory body whose purpose is to build and maintain waterways on internal waters in the Republic of Croatia. In the meantime, since the very amendment of this Law and the adoption of the Law of 2003, the Agency has also been established in the course of the establishment and establishment of the Agency, certain shortcomings have been identified which we wanted to correct these amendments to the Law, i.e. to facilitate the functioning and operation of the Waterway Agency itself on internal waters. The aim of the amendment of this Act is to practically amend the headquarters of agencies established by the basic law, i.e. amendments to the Law in Zagreb. We propose that, therefore, the Agency's headquarters be changed and that the City of Vukovar be designated as the largest port in the Republic of Croatia on internal waters and practically that the Agency's work is just taking place where its purpose is and its establishment and arrangement and where it will coordinate operations in connection with the construction and maintenance of waterways on internal waters. Of course there is another reason why it is proposed to determine the Agency's headquarters in Vukovar because the fact that Vukovar lies on the Danube, so on the seventh... The transport corridor, then one of the largest waterways in Europe, and then the clear importance of the City of Vukovar is still important. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The second reason why we also went clearly into amending the law is that the composition of the Governing Council is in line with the current one, to comply with the organisation of the state administration in the Republic of Croatia. Namely, in the old law that we now propose to change the members of the board of directors were nominated from the resolution ministries ab nominem, so the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Relations, the Ministry of Agriculture, etc., etc. and how in the meantime we changed the structure of the central part of the state administration in the Republic of Croatia then we proposed with these changes that instead... The departments of the Board of Directors shall be nominated from the relevant central authorities of the state administration which, in their respective jurisdiction, have certain tasks in their work, which touch the work of the Agency itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also provided for in this Act, therefore, that in the event that the Agency has entrusted its business for which it is established with other legal persons, these transactions are not only entrusted with the basis of a public tender, but that instead of a public tender, it defines the obligation to act in accordance with the Public Procurement Act as broadly and more qualitatively implies regulation of the issue and the confidence of business, i.e. the entry of business to other legal or physical persons in the Republic of Croatia. Here we hope that by adopting such a proposal to amend and supplement the Internal Waters Act will contribute to the further, faster and more quality organisation of the agency itself and that it is certainly one of the assumptions for the quality of the work of the agency itself, with the adoption of these changes so that we can then monitor better the construction and maintenance of waterways in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69489	Thank you. Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee, legislation. No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Vladimir Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69490	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Inland Water Navigation. The Inland water navigation law of 1998 has regulated the legal framework for inland water navigation activities in the Republic of Croatia, navigation relations, navigation safety, the international, interstate or state navigation system. The amendment and addition of the Inland water navigation law of 2003 comply with the European Union Directives and as the greatest news was established by the Agency for Inland Waterways with tasks from the construction of waterways, technical maintenance and marking of waterways and navigation safety facilities, the management of waterways in terms of airworthiness and navigation safety and navigation management. The agency's headquarters was scheduled in Zagreb. This proposed amendment and the addition of the Law suggest that the Agency's headquarters be in Vukovar, and for such a proposed amendment there are, but very solid reasons indeed. Vukovar is the central location of river transport in the Republic of Croatia, and the planned construction of the Danube-Sava multi-purpose channel and the starting point of these roads. Of course, this proposal does not ignore the economic side of the issue precisely because of the position in which the agency's headquarters is proposed, so the City of Vukovar is located. When it comes to waterways and inland waterways, there are some other explanations that are needed. It is important to note that it is an activity with an extremely rich tradition, an economic development and in every other respect is profitable and it is extremely profitable. It must also be said that the entire waterway system is quite devoid, and why are there more reasons? And it wasn't just the past period of war that contributed. It has put a great point on and, rather, it is also the result of weak maintenance that has been going on for decades. Here's an example. The work of deepening the Danube waterway could only be seen in very old photographs from the time before World War I and all three of our rivers that are significant waterways, so Danube, Drava and Sava require a lot of work and care to be as waterways in the condition required. Now, by establishing the Republic of Croatia as an independent state and by normalising relations with neighbours, this does not apply to Drava because there are no border problems. These three rivers become or are already bordered in the part where they are watery. Danube all the way but while the temporary regime of the border is in force, Sava is largely part of the airworthiness in the Republic of Croatia and Drava is only in one small part. This, of course, requires further efforts, incurs several areas of the problem. This is not just about the technical part of the problem, but about resolving the issue of borders and defining the border line. This technical part puts great tasks before the agency and those tasks must be answered. A provision on the composition of the Management Board of the Agency, consisting of representatives of resolution ministries that have points of contact with waterways, gives a general name to the central state body which makes the appointment of members of the council simpler in the event of a change in the formation of a ministry. Such a structure and headquarters as proposed with the regional units of the Agency will carry out its tasks. It must accomplish the tasks ahead of it and give results that are expected next. Allow me in favor of the claim of tradition only one piece of information. The first steamer passed the Danube near Vukovar in 1831 and regular steamer traffic was established in 1840. But back to the present. The Agency's headquarters is being transferred to Vukovar. It is an area of special state care, a war-torn area, still unrecovered from the consequences of war and occupation, and this is also a contribution to the recovery and recovery of this area, with all the practical reasons already mentioned. For this reason, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69491	Thank you. The club of representatives of the CNS respected representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69492	Thank you, Mr. President. At the Club of the Croatian People's Party, all but Mr. Lesar, we will support this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Inland water navigation and Mr. Lesar said that he would support this proposal if the agency used no longer to drive a Slovenian skeleton on Mura. So here I hope that when the agency moves and when it starts to work out, and I believe that there will also be a government to help her drive a skating on Murray, which is on our territory a Slovenian skeleton to stop driving, or to make us ours or, yes, I don't know that we banish Slovenians the least said. And now to go back to this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Inland Waters that I said we would support, I just can't believe that this is what we get with so few points of the law where, among other things, it says in the explanation, four times just states what all the tasks of the agency are. And among other things, it says: "The proposal for this law will improve and improve internal navigation in general, transport, supply of goods" and so on. The proposal for this law will not improve anything and nothing will improve. Because if that were the case, if the law were to improve that, then every law should write a proposal for this law, we will solve all our problems, or at least one hundred fifty laws should be passed daily and all will be settled. Then I'd be in favor of doing it that way. This law will not improve anything if this agency does not work and if that agency does not start working or already does not work. In the light of this law, it doesn't say anywhere whether this agency works, how many employees there are, what the costs are, what it's going to cause. It says here he doesn't need any funding in the state budget. That's not true. Just because they're moving to Vukovar it'll cost something and it'll cost at least to transfer a computer if they've had computers by now. It'll probably cost something, but they'll probably travel to work there, too. So something's gonna cost you. And they'll probably be traveling in official cars, so then we think it doesn't cost anything because it's going out of the budget anyway. So you didn't write anywhere, you didn't write anything about how many employees there are, whether the agency works at all, how many years it's been since the need to start it and what it's done so far. We know what her assignments are, four times you cited it in an explanation. However, we also know that in the inner navigation all the time there is constant growth and we also know that ports and Osijek, and especially Vukovar, cannot, that they have become a narrow throat and that they cannot meet the needs of their crossing capacities at all. However, in Vukovar, the situation is that it is only meeting the need for one third of the capacities they have. And you also said he's on the seventh European corridor. So it's inevitable if it goes into the construction of the Danube-Sava channel and I hope that this channel will grow from pre-election promises to something concrete and will reduce that path by 460 kilometers, but I also hope that this agency will do something to prevent the construction of the Danube-Sava channel from befitting others rather than us. This means that the construction of the canal will benefit Slavonski Brod and Vukovar, not Shabac, and I don't know who else is on that same corridor. We know very well that the Danube-Sava channel can and meets all the criteria that any of the three access funds need to meet all these criteria this channel meets. Will this agency also take steps to get money to build that channel as a new waterway, as a reduction of 460km, as developmental opportunities for Slavonia as an opportunity to irrigate, as an opportunity to develop these ports which I have said or the agency will only move Vukovar, hire some HDZs or other personnel, and only serve to catch up there, I hope to serve this first, to contribute to the development of that area where it moves, that it will not be just forms for. I also hope that the agency will contribute to the signing of a bilateral agreement with Serbia and resolving issues that are being raised all the time, which is the issue of funding, in fact, the biggest problems are who will bear the costs of cleaning waterways because of those who were created by shelling in that NATO bombing when it was and the question is who will pay for it. That's why we didn't sign an agreement and, of course, no development in these waterways, and even maintenance of these waterways can be because we haven't even cleared the mines that are in those areas. And this raises the question and the development of agricultural land along these waterways, and this is illegal seines that are equal to illegal quarrys where gravel is exploited where no one is reported and where no one pays for the extraction of that gravel. Whether or not it will be regulated here because they have a obligation to build, reflect and all of what you have four times stated here. We also know that on the coast of Apatino, the coast is collapsing, and that these are potential problems for Kopački butt, because the joint intervention is lagging behind, we haven't signed an agreement. Whether the agency will force the Foreign Ministry to restore talks and solve these problems, and to resuscitate that coast, and also protect Kopački butt that threatens destruction if it continues at this pace. So a lot of things are undefined here, a lot of things here are unexplained in the explanation. I know only two things change, and that's the headquarters and names of people named in the agency. But the explanation is so gnarly, so empty that you simply can't see anything from it. It is not seen how much it will cost the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and I repeat, we support it in any case to move it to Vukovar, although we believe it should have been in Vukovar from the beginning because there is no logic and there is no reason to believe that it has been in Zagreb so far, but we are interested in how much it will cost. Because if there's nothing in the budget, it means they'll never move. We now have a rebalancing, whether this rebalancing provides for the move of that agency. You're saying the money doesn't need it, so it's not supposed to, so the question is, are people going to send it to you by any other ministry to move it or how they're going to move, I don't know, when there's no money for it?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69493	Thank you. A SDP representative club, a respected representative, Vice President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69494	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. However, let me remind you of a slightly forgotten document, the older one, from 1997 when the Croatian Parliament adopted the Strategy for Spatial Planning of the Republic of Croatia. Let me remind you, among other things, that it includes both the Strategy and the Spatial Arrangement Programme relating to maritime river transport. That this programme is foreseen among other things that Croatia has waterways on the rivers of the sixth class, fourth class, then third class and second class and of course 5D class as a multi-purpose water channel of Danube-Sava. It should be recalled that the Danube is the sixth-class Croatian waterway throughout its Republic, so the international waterway with the highest loads on the river... Make sure that Sava is practically up to Slavonski Brod in the fourth class and that by the end of 97th year, it is expected that by 2015 it will be a waterway until Sisak, from Sisak to Zagreb and from Kupa, Sisak to Karlovac through Kupa, to be in the usefulness of the second class of the Sava River and the Kupa River. [[You don't understand.]] That Drava is located as a waterway of the fourth class to Osijek from the Danube, the mouth of Danube to Osijek, and that as a third class it is all the way from Teresa Polje to Virovitica and from Tereza Polje to Ždalica as a second class of waterway. So looking at this aspect, we have practically something very interesting, that practically our river Drava and Sava cover the parallel corridors 10C, and the Danube-Sava Corridor 5C channel and that in such a situation it is quite clear that practically in the territory of the Republic of Croatia on its continental part if rail and road traffic is added, if airports in Osijek are added and I do not list further, then it is almost possible that all modes of traffic that are very important are present in all areas. However, what is to be said, unfortunately, little or almost nothing is invested in all of this and among other things by not investing in this infrastructure, a large infrastructure is coming up with a very important issue of relative lagging in the development of the Republic of Croatia County in the area of Slavonia and Baranja. I think it is important to point out not only from the point of view of Slavonia and Baranja but from the point of view if these waterways and not only the waterways but the roads and railway routes are built as soon as possible, that the practically comparative advantages of this area will be more connected with other areas of the Republic of Croatia and will ensure the overall integrated development of the Republic of Croatia. In this regard, it was completely unnatural to determine that the headquarters of this agency was in Zagreb on whose starting or arriving if you want the port should be a possible river port but on the waterway of the second class, so for very small loads and very shallow gasses of river boats and transport that... Therefore, it is quite clear that a new seat should be sought and in such a situation it was only possible to discuss whether it would be Vukovar or possibly Slavonski Brod, i.e. Shamac depending on where the channel would end in order to actually be accepted on corridor 5C and connection to corridor 10C, practically... waterway traffic etc. [[You don't understand.]] Of course we at the SDP Representatives' Club support the agency's headquarters in Vukovar. But it's the only seeming positive thing about this amendment and the addition of this law that's secured, which, everything else remains in question. First, we ask ourselves a question. So far, in this Governing Council, the Agency has been representatives of the Ministry. They are now no longer representatives of the Ministry but representatives of the Central Authority of the State Administration responsible for... And so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's practically the ministry again. So we ask ourselves if it is possible that, of all river ports, Vukovar, Osijek, I don't know Ilock, if you want on Dravi Belišč, Donji Miholjc, Slatina, Virovitica all the way to Ždalica and so on or on Sava if you want Župa, Šamca, Slavonski Brod, Nova Gradiška, Novska, Sisak and so on, it is possible that we are not able to find any representatives of Rijeka ports who will be in the Governing Council of agencies who will discuss it. You just ask yourself a question, man, is that possible? And it is about ports that must ensure safe waterways to which they want to transport goods and services and, of course, put themselves in office and so on. Not to mention boaters who should have a special position with us and who should also secure their place and so on. I don't mind if all the representatives of these central authorities stay, but we're asking on behalf of the club whether it's time to... representatives of ports and shipowners who should also be in this area and in this Governing Council shall appear because they are also discussing their interest and doing part of the work of interest for the Republic of Croatia which must be carried out by ports and shipowners in that area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course when it comes to... The road then mainly opens the question and what about the waterway arrangement and what about, in this respect, the exploitation of mineral raw materials in the areas and in the excavations, to, in particular, the Sava River and a little bit on the Drava River. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Although the Drava River is fortunate because it seems that the border is one part with Hungary goes then it is not possible every time where sand and gravel would be wanted not to happen, but unfortunately on the Sava River it leads to so-called. The river's rina changes and changes its currents, and not only is it being dug up to that extent that it can't actually stand to what extent it needs to be exploited because no one controls. The consequence of that, of course, is that there are also these issues that are very interesting to affect practically both underground waters and their flows in the Republic of Croatia. The third is our remark regarding this matter... You know, it appears as a very big contribution to this amendment and to supplementing the law that here, among other things, for the sake of the agency's economics, is that it is doing certain tasks itself completely and that it is in line with the Public Procurement Act that it is practically proposed that it should no longer practically call a tender but act in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But you need to know one more fact. According to the Public Procurement Act, it is possible on the so-called invitation to tender to invite participants and then with the agreement of the Ministry of Finance without any competition practically direct contract awarded not only jobs but also concessions to be carried out on... the route and on the waterways when it comes to the exploitation of mineral raw materials. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're asking if that's going to happen, too? It seems to us that he will, and for these reasons, we are very careful and we are asking something that is far more important to us than this question. However, it should remain here until this Agency decides on the opening of a public tender for entrusted tasks referred to in Article 19c. This law, of course, and if it's because of my economics, I'm assessing that she's not going to do it herself. Of course, when performing alone, no competition is required, but an important question is raised. Where the Agency itself does so, it should then be seen which state body in particular exercises not only the supervision of the law enforcement but also the supervision of the legality of the work itself of that agency, so as not to be tempted by possible manipulations of raw materials that appear in the rivers and which can be used. Another question to which we are particularly emphasising. We believe that there is a need to make a broader amendment to the legislation that regulates inland navigation and which should ensure that the strategy and the spatial arrangement programme adopted by the Assembly and which provides that these issues in which I spoke in the first place are resolved by 2015 to begin working to ensure and complete this. Because we're re-emphasizing the Sava River is all over it and its entire waterway is located on corridor 10C. Channel Danube-Sava connects the corridor practically 5C and it's all over its part. And parallel to the 10C corridor as part of the "ipislon" is the waterway of Rijeka-Drava. We believe that it is time to definitely not only comply with the river programme, river transport and inland navigation and an appropriate strategy, but rather to make an economic elaborate that will provide investment funds and start investing gradually in these projects each year in order to actually realize and achieve that part by 2015. Unfortunately, in this part we are late and in this respect we must clearly and openly say that it seems to us that between the other part of the accumulation that has been borrowed from the World Bank for Reconstruction and Development in this way is not equally distributed in the Republic of Croatia and the needs and interests of development and large infrastructure in Slavonia and Baranja as well as in other areas that are necessary, so if we are already in charge, let us not only pay the debts but also make the debts evenly available for the development of large infrastructure for the entire Republic of Croatia. And I think that would be fair and fair. In addition, this will lead to capacity-building and employment in the construction of these parallel routes, waterways and so on, the employment of people and the opening of additional problems, additional issues that will lead to development. And among other things, one of the important questions. In the Republic of Croatia several hundred water units are located in one way or another scattered across our ports and ports on river waterways. You know, the Republic of Croatia doesn't have its own river shipyard that could be serviced by these vessels, which could be built new, and it's absurd to build a boat in the Korčula area and that this ship comes around the Black Sea and so on all the way through the Danube to Vukovar so that it can be a vessel on our rivers. I think we definitely need to clear up some things, and Slavonia also has footage of metal professions and shipbuilding professions. After all, these people worked in the former common state of Apatino and produced ships and maintained and service ships. Now that they don't work mostly on the shipyards along our coast so it's time to simply ask questions and economics, usefulness, why service these ships, why would we leave the construction of new ships to foreigners instead of our people, our hands and our investments to be so on, and not to come to impossible situations that we and this one ship have barely built in Korčula for a simple reason, because actually the construction of seaboats and river boats is not the same and in this respect we have to take care of. This is why we stress, we will support this amendment and the addition of the Law in the first reading, but we express all these remarks and we express with hope that this amendment will be extended and complemented, and that the final proposal of the Law will come in a way that will extend and cover all these issues which are of interest to the Republic of Croatia, in particular for the area of Slavonia and Baranja and for the development of river transport in the Republic of Croatia as one of the types of integrated transport integration of the Republic of Croatia, both internally and internationally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69495	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Vladimir Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69496	Thank you. It is an incorrect allegation that the esteemed representative and vice president of this House of Commons ensure that ports ensure their airworthiness. The fleet shall be provided by an agency or similar institutions. You mentioned a float or something. Luke doesn't secure the airworthiness, it's not a job onion. And another correction, this ship seems to be built to me by the Queen, not by Korčula.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69497	Here you go. For the club of HSP representatives, respected representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69498	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State. Our Advocacy Club will support this bill with the desire to be extended in the second reading when we discuss the final proposal of the Law with a report on the state of our ports on internal waters. The whole story of sailing inland water actually consists of, based on the efficiency of our ports on inland waters. To talk about sailing, i.e. about enabling sailing on our big rivers, so Sava, Danube and Drava, and not to speak at the same time about the state and capacity of our river ports is indeed irresponsible. When a new Law on the Ports of Internal Water was adopted four years ago, I warned of the fact that, for example, Sisak Luka was privatized in the middle of two law readings. In fact, it was only during the second reading of the law that the problem was considered that the ports were publically well and that belonged to the port itself. So, the same problem that is at sea we encounter with maritime goods, when determining what belongs to the suburbs of the port, which belongs to the suburbs of the port, at which the owner of the port pays the concession, because it is actually a public good, maritime good, which he can actually take a mortgage on because it is his afterwards. We also found all these problems in the Law on the Ports of Internal Waters, but he, you will forgive me for the expression, was so complicated during the adoption that he did not actually help Croatia solve this key problem when it comes to improving our ports on the rivers, i.e. the state's investments in improving our river transport. It's one aspect, it's just a state of port. I would ask you, Secretary of State, to present until the final proposal of the Law to the Parliament and one brief, to summarise the material of the condition in which our ports are on the inner waters. Another problem directly related to this Act is the issue of maintenance of waterways, and we are really in trouble because our 3 main waterways are the Danube, Sava and Drava, at the same time border rivers, and there we must indeed negotiate with our neighbours the way of maintenance. When it comes to the Danube, things have been better because since the early 1950s, the Danube Convention, similar to the Convention on the Law of the Sea, has been in force for the Danube navigation and maintenance of the Danube waterway. The convention is signed in Vienna and behind it is actually all the Danube countries and no one will dare and not abide, that is, only Serbia as far as I know it is the monkeyry of the Danube, passing by a warship through other people's territorial waters, without announcing the passage of a warship, or fearing with it the Croatian population. You cannot find such moves in other countries that are signatories of the Danube Convention. Such a document would be necessary for the other two rivers. When it comes to the Sava, of course, an interstate contract has already been signed that is very similar to the Danube Convention, and I think that such a contract may be needed today for Drava, if its water share is increased. But of course, such a contract, if it is interstate, must include co-financing of waterway maintenance. The agency was transferred to Vukovar, and that makes perfect sense to me. After all, Vukovar is one of our two largest ports on the Danube Basin. The first parabrod, a colleague of Stengl's, was on Karlovac, on the Cup. He was co-financed by Ambroz Branicanji, an old-timer who moved to Zagreb during the Napoleonic wars. But that was the time when both Zagreb and Karlovac were river ports. Then the Cup and Saul were kept on board for the ships of that gauze, and at that time, and they were able to sail. However, the whole story of Zagreb as a port, or Slavonski boat as a port and other ports, the whole story of the Danube-Sava channel must actually be done in agreement with national interests when it comes to Croatian railways. Speaking of the Danube-Sava channel, we must admit that he was in his own idea based on two great needs. One is the need to shorten the waterway, and another is the need to irrigate the area, i.e. the melioration of the Danube Basin. However, when it comes to cutting waterways in the first row, it was thought of a shorter route for the Dukean grain to the Rijeka port, not for a shorter route from some Croatian port to the Danube ports in northern Europe. Today, Croatia may have an interest in transferring part of the burden to its ships through the newly built Danube-Sava channel when and if it is built, but let us ask a slightly different question. Is it in Croatia's interest that the burden on this direction, so along Sava along the tenth corridor, draws Croatian railway locomotives and that the HH as a state firm earns money on that corridor, or is it our interest to drive on the same water corridor, for example, a Serbian shipman? So, when we talk about the Danube-Sava channel, we need to start thinking about how much it fits into Croatian interests today, more specifically in Croatian traffic interests. One was the Danube-Sava channel in Yugoslavia, the second was the Danube-Sava channel at the time of the independent Republic of Croatia with its own traffic interests and with its own interests developing its transport corridors and earning money on the 10th corridor. If the HZ earns 60m euros per year on the 10th corridor only to attach a locomotive to the Tovarnik and let it on the border with Slovenia to do nothing else, then it is necessary to bring the number into contact with the renewal of the waterway and possible dangers to HZ, i.e. for our road corridors, highways and others. So I'm not against the water corridors. I am in favour of functioning our ports, especially the port in Sisak or Slavonski Brod, but I am in favour of discussing them and the waterways in the overall context of both the railway and the port. It would also refer to its predecessor, in the same way that our Club of Representatives insists that representatives of shipowners, Croatian shipowners enter the administrative boards of our port authorities on the Adriatic coast, as they are the ones who use these ports, or fishermen when it comes to county port administrations. In the same way, we consider Mr. Secretary of State that this council would be reasonably complemented by an authorised representative of Croatian shipowners on inland waterways. If we have all these other representatives, then it would be logical to have a representative inside of those who sail on those inland waterways. And to end the issue of Mura. On Mura as a border I was twice last year, once after the flood for not maintaining the embankment, that is to say, not to build the embankment so as not to offend our northern neighbours, and the second one is doing this whole affair with a skeleton that sails inside Croatian territorial waters on a river deep within Croatian territory. Unheard of is the insolence that if you have a river that is more than 2 kilometers inside Croatia, and the border is at the old flow of Mura fixed by an agreement between the Counts Festec and Esterhazy as the border between the Slovenian dukes and the three-tried kingdoms in 1692, so more than 300 years ago. It is an unheard of the insolence that Slovenia is protesting and insisting and imposing on your ministry and port captainship in Osijek, which will sail between the two coasts, between the two Croatian coasts. So, it's as if Italy would impose on us that ferry will drive between Trogir and Drvenik... That's completely pointless. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The point is that this part of Mura is deep in Croatian territory, the border is on the old flow of Mura, and when you cross Mura with a skeleton, you have to drive more than two kilometers to get to the border. A kilometer and under under stream Mura is a border crossing and even after that, another 700 metres is just the border with Slovenia on the old Mura stream. As far as the skeleton itself is concerned, the old skeleton is in such a desperate state that if the Slovenians really want to get on two speedboats or on one boot and land nicely in Slovenia in Lendava, there is a skeleton, let them drive it wherever they want. I think the port captain did the right thing when she banned sailing with such an old skeleton, that your ministry did the right thing when it ordered that a new skeleton be made and it's the order for all the residents of Međimurje living in the area to use this new skeleton made really by all regulations that are very high-quality. So, in all such and similar situations where the Slovenian side is trying to impose your ministry a navigation regime in Croatian territorial waters on our rivers, we ask you, Mr. Secretary of State, harsh and appropriate reaction, do not wait for the Croatian Parliament to remind you of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69499	Thank you, colleague Tadic. On behalf of the HSS Club, dear colleague Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69500	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Inland Water Navigation in all debates has taken on something broader character and I think it is good because it is always good to remind how and how to recognize the strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia were those on the Adriatic Sea, were they in the continental part of Croatia when we talk about sailing inland waters. Of course, the result of all these discussions and the goal that is to be achieved in these discussions should be opened in a bit in a miraculous way to the forgotten topic. In fact, the Adriatic Sea is obviously predominant in all discussions, i.e. we will absolutely all agree that its value is of such importance that it is often without cause and a little bit of partial and our guilt to eat this one serious topic, a serious debate on waterwater in our waters, in our rivers, in Danube, in Sava, Drava and other rivers and simply comes up with one natural sequence of forgetting about these interests, and then there are also insufficient resources that are invested in waterways, resulting from the lack of a broader concept that can absolutely create one broader precondition for development and economic and other activities in this continental area, and thus can achieve these overall interests that Croatia wants to achieve. In fact, there are now almost a month or two of debates in which we have touched these topics and debates about the role in which all the values found in "Beautiful Ours" are equally evaluated, that every area and every area in Croatia thanks God has what to praise and can find such resources as our rivers here. In one such debate there was also a debate on whether there are on our rivers of the island and whether these islands can represent a specificity in terms of the stimulating part, means that they recognise the status which is recognised by our Adriatic islands and how such a speciality can be valorised and whether this particularity is such a character that it can contribute to the development of economic and overall activities in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, this debate on the Law on Inland water navigation is necessarily continued because it is unquestionably connected. I was quite accidentally because I didn't get a chance to see such islands often and especially to be on them very intrigued to see what these islands were, so I visited one of them. It is a cross on Drava, an island that when you come to it and it does not seem so small to you and everything you find on it assures you definitely in the the thesis that the wealth of the Republic of Croatia and its values cannot even know from the textbook unless you were on it. Therefore, it would be useful for all who were not convinced of the potential of this little story and the Crosses to come true. It's an island where flora and fauna are at such a level that it's simply impossible to create a retrospective of everything you find there. On the other hand, there is Hungarian territory which is unquestionably talking about the recognition but full recognition of the importance of such landscapes, such spaces, because the Hungarians have special measures brought this space into one harmony, a system of protection but also protected it by additional measures, wanting little space probably quality because they are not in a position like Croatia to have a lot of quality space to protect it. Thus, the island is not just an exhibit that can become a tourist soft. This entire space, regardless of whether the airworthiness there is, of course, not possible at this moment, but this entire space represents a unique phenomenon which, with very little investment or recognition of the interests of the Republic of Croatia, can lead to one function to be the engine of the economy of the region, to be exactly what the end is missing and that end lacks the promotion of those activities of which, for example, can be easier to live than from what they say in Dalmatia from the hoard. And I think it's very important for Croatia, to recognize opportunities, to recognize potentials. And in that sense, every proposal that goes in that direction is good. It's a good bill, too. Of course, at the very beginning, it was given in the clarification that the Agency's headquarters as the bearer of all activities regarding waterways in the inner waters would be moved to Vukovar and of course Vukovar deserved this but there are other very objective reasons to do so. Of course, it should be believed that this can and must happen because the fact that it is based in Vukovar will not be enough for all these activities to happen properly. However, I would also agree with colleagues who had previously spoken on behalf of clubs about the need to view this whole, that it is necessary in this context to discuss road connection, about rail connection, that one special strategy should be designed specifically as regards Slavonia as one part of Croatian territory that is not valorised enough and in which there are huge potentials that simply do not see or want to see or misjudge themselves. I think that's why this is a good opportunity to talk through this law about those consequences, but also about the goals and opportunities that can be achieved, and of which we seem to be always as far away and they remain as just one beautiful story behind which we cannot then boast about the results. He would also agree with all those who felt that as regards the proposal in terms of appointing members of the Governing Council that absolutely one natural principle should be supported, which is that one member should always be from the local self-government or that part of the user used naturally with those resources. Something similar to how it was resolved when it came to the debate on the part concerning the Adriatic Sea. Therefore, I think that the administrative council could be this way with another member who would represent that I call the local side to be acceptable. Here we hope at the HSS Club that the consequences of this law will be adequate to the goals that are to be achieved and that this will indeed be one driver for the development of the economy but also for the creation of infrastructure advantages in this part of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69501	Thank you very much, fellow Markov. On behalf of the promoter, the Honorable State Secretary, Mr Bačić. Here you go, Comrade Bacic!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69502	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In my opening part, I did not really talk about the current state of internal waterways in the inner waters of the Republic of Croatia or about the state of the ports on the inland waterways. But since here is the debate going in this direction and if we had looked less perhaps at, the very change of the law that is mainly being touched and almost exclusively the change in the Agency's headquarters I would have said a few words about, therefore, the waterways, the ports and the agency because it was said in part in the introduction that I did not mention any current situation of the agencies and what is happening with the agency? I would like to say that in the Republic of Croatia at this point there are about 800km of inland waterways which are classified according to the European network of inland waterways. But only 600 kilometers into that network is included because the Drava is only up to Osijek, and according to its mouth to the Danube, it is not classified, because it is clearly not even built the Danube-Sava multi-purpose channel. When I talk about maintaining these waterways, then I must say that since 2002, the Republic of Croatia has invested around 40 million kunas in maintenance of waterways. So also Save and Drava and Danube. The big problem with maintenance of waterways is the fact that just the waterways, the roads in the Republic of Croatia were the borderline of the Republic of Croatia with the countries with which we were at war. That these inner rivers were, in fact, derelict, unsustainable because they couldn't even be maintained. Only after a peaceful reintegration of Eastern Slavonia was made clear, only after we established the Sava Commission together with Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, Montenegro and Slovenia could systematically approach the organisation of the waterways in the Republic of Croatia. And regardless of the fact that only in 2003 did the amendment of the law plan the establishment of the agency and, regardless of the fact that the agency only last year had been operating the resolution ministry, I repeat annually about 40 million kunas invested in, invests annually in the maintenance of waterways. Of course, the problem, I said before, is the unsigned agreement and the unconfirmed border on the Danube between Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro, and it has been a long time and is still, a major problem in the arrangement, maintaining the Danube as a waterway. But regardless of that, we, not waiting for the restoring ministries and the government not waiting to define the Danube border between the two countries, have proposed to the neighbouring country an internal navigation agreement in which to define the Danube navigation itself on the one hand, and on the other hand define the marking and maintenance of the Danube until it is signed and established the final border, does not define the border on the Danube. At this very moment, we are holding meetings with their resolution ministry and we are clearly seeking them, regardless of their obligation under the Danube Convention to maintain that part of the waterway that passes clearly through the territory of neighbouring countries. Mostly that part of the river, and that... And half a mile along the border of the Republic of Croatia we are still keeping it clear and fulfilling all those obligations arising from our membership in the Danube Commission. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When it comes to the Sava River as I said, it is the Sava Commission whose headquarters is in Zagreb and at this point our Ministry and through this agency that I will say more about later, something more about it is the most active if I can say from all the 4 states of the Sava Commission on the rehabilitation of the Sava River waterway in order to get her back to the state before 1910. The price of that rehabilitation, or the establishment of a navigation regime on the Sava River before 1990, is EUR 15 million, somewhere around 110 million, and is now being prepared to start the tendering process so that the Sava Commission, as the bearer of activities on the Sava River, could go into the procedure of establishing the most favourable bidder for the rehabilitation of the Sava River. And thanks to the activities of the Republic of Croatia, it has so far gone far in the making of documentation, research, environmental impact study and so on, in the rehabilitation of the Sava River. Otherwise, when we talk about waterways in the government, we in the government and certainly within the rest of the ministry are giving special attention to the internal waterways. In European Union countries, this varies roughly between 4 and 7% of the total burden within the European Union transports by inland waterways. With us in the Republic of Croatia less than 1%. Some countries like the Netherlands have 20% of the total burden being transported by inland waterways or rivers, and this is therefore proof that this fact itself tells us that we need to further develop internal waterways. When we talk about the price, the price of cargo, or the necessary means to spend some of the same distances, then I should say that when it comes to transport on rivers or inland waterways, then about the same means for 1500 tonnes are spent on, therefore, on inland waterways and for that same cost, it takes 60 car tanks. You can imagine how much cheaper that river traffic is, then, and in any case, it needs to be further developed. When we talk about the agency itself, so the agency was founded last year, it worked. Its budget was around 40 million kuna a year and already last year carried out work on the marking and maintenance of inland waterways. The same activity is also taking place this year. Otherwise, the agency itself is planned with 4 outposts in Sisak, Slavonski Brod, Osijek and Vukovar clearly where the seat will now be. And until this law is changed, it's not even possible to team up entirely with the agency itself because clearly it doesn't matter if it's the headquarters of the agency that's completely teamed up will have about 30 employees somewhere. To open a tender for these jobs in Zagreb, and then tell people that they will have to work in Vukovar. Therefore, the assumption that it can go into the entire teaming of the agency is an amendment to the law which will then make it clear that the teaming of the agency can be carried out only when the law itself is amended. So the agency worked. Together with Croatian waters she signed an agreement in which the agency is obliged to ensure the wateriness of the river while clearly other works related to the maintenance of the river are in jurisdiction, and the water is in the jurisdiction of Croatian waters. When we talk about members of the board of directors of the port administration, this agency itself was compared with a similar agency that is at sea. So with a "plot" road where the agency's administrative council itself is also not being joined by representatives of local self-government but only by representatives of the state. In the case of representation of local self-government in this part of navigation or on-board port, representatives of county and concessionaires and thus of shipowners shall enter into the composition of the administrative boards of port administrations and, in that part, local self-government shall fully participate in the work of port administrations and administrative councils of port administrations. The Agency's supervision of operations is carried out by the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, which stems from the law, clearly from the basic law. Therefore, all that the Agency is doing, the resources provided in this State budget for the maintenance of waterways are re-run by the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Development or by competent port captains who are obliged to worry about the state of waterways. When it comes to the need for a full debate to determine and propose and to present a report on the state of the waterways, the report on the state of our ports should also be said that the government has prepared a three-year plan for the development of the ports of internal waters and a five-year plan for the development of the waterways of inland waterways and that, at the first session of the Assembly, I hope in September, there will be just a report on the state and five-year plan for the development of ports and inland waterways. And here's the light. When I talk about ports then I also want to say that despite the major problems in the functioning of Croatian ports on internal waters, the fact that in the past five years traffic has tripled through our ports. So no matter what is not invested enough, no matter what huge problems there are in the operation of the ports, the traffic in these ports is tripled, and if there were the capacity of port infrastructure and port superstructures then where and where an even greater burden would be overloaded through Croatian ports on the inland waterways.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69503	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote, dear colleague Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69504	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting an incorrect quote when you say that the preconditions were not created until the amendments to these laws so that an agency could be formed and that this will now be possible. It is not true that it will be possible because you said in a proposal for these amendments and a supplement that there is no need to secure funds in the state budget. How, then, and how many of those 30 people are going to get as many as you said they needed to be employed, from which they will be paid if they are not provided with no funds in the state budget. He's gonna volunteer?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69505	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. There's a respected colleague named Vesna Skara Ozbolt. She's gone. He's losing his voice on this subject. It's my dear fellow Stazic's turn. Same case. He's losing his voice on this subject. It's time for my dear colleague, Roxandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69506	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State and Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's what's really been said here in these changes and additions. Since I come from the city of Sisak, the port in Sisak has been mentioned very often, here are a few words in favor and support for these amendments and additions to the law. So I certainly agree that the place and headquarters of the agency that was founded in 2003 for it to be in Vukovar, and among other things, the goal of this agency is to bring the Sava River through the waterway arrangements, as we have already heard many times today, to a higher class of airworthiness to Sisak. The fact is that for a number of years, there has been a lack of order of airworthiness for known reasons here already said the Homeland War and the end of complete airworthiness because of the known reasons to Sisak. I also hope, what the Secretary of State has just said, that the arrangement of the waterway which is the only and the right way in the development of these roads will indeed begin this year and that it will soon be completed. The setting up of a waterway to Sisak gradually brings into operation the port of Sisak and the port port transport for ships built by the Sisak port administration for the needs of remonting and construction of new vessels. I must say that the state of Croatia has invested considerable resources to build on, and it is significant not only for Sisak but also for the overall development of the county's economy. I must say that the town of Sisak and the port administration is the founders of the Brodocentar companies which may also be in the future a river shipyard because they will have the possibility not only to remount and service our river ships but also to build ships. At this point, I must say, you all certainly know that our river boaters are mostly serving and repairing their ships outside Croatia because it is far cheaper. I hope that by establishing this company that has just been established, there will be the possibility of these jobs at the port of Sisak. Well, everybody talked a little bit about the past today, so I'll talk about it. I will say that as early as the 18th century on the section of the grain road that passed through the Danube, Sava and Kupa rivers, Sisak played a very important role in the load and storage of goods and especially cereals. Luke and the warehouse were a long symbol of the Sisak trade prosperity, one whole part of the city grew up just by stockpiling and overloading the grains. Namely, the cargo of grain was carried out today by someone here already mentioned, because of the ships that continued their journey to Karlovac, namely the river Kup, here and Karlovac had a port. Until what our vice president said in 2015, I hope that this wateriness of the Kupa River will be possible again to Karlovac, which would mean a lot to Sisak and all the traffic in Sisak and the environment. The Sava River still has international waterway status today, so development plans that are related to the transport of our county, not only to it but also to the Republic of Croatia and the European Union, are increasingly based on internal navigation, which is certainly important and important for the development of transport, and we need to know and we all know that it is exactly river traffic and at this point is one of the cheapest modes of transport. Those other changes that we mentioned here today I would say technically are of a nature and relate precisely to the changes of the board of directors of the agency, and we know because of the formation of the ministries that have been changed here, and therefore there has to be a logical change in the members of the boards. Here I think that we will all agree that we will support these amendments and the additions of the laws because of the fact that this agency will begin and I hope soon to carry out our tasks, and among other things not only with the arrangement of the waterway, we may be doing that control of the mining of gravel that has been mentioned so many times here, and I can tell you that in our area it is also a big problem, just uncontrollable digging of gravel from the river and thus destroying and devasing completely river shores. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69507	Thank you very much, dear colleague Roxandić. It's my dear colleague Raven's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69508	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Assistant, colleagues and colleagues. I am pleased with these five amendments and the addition of the Law on Inland Navigation has caused this debate and the participation of all of us, and I am particularly pleased that, here, participation in the debate would have been taken by the representatives of the headquarters of the ports on the inland waters. From Vukovar, Osijek, Sisak and Slavon ship. Because these are the four ports on the internal waters that will be safe, and from previous discussions it has been concluded in a significant contribution not only to the development of the economy but to the development of this part of the Republic of Croatia in general. In the amendments and additions to this Law, the predecessors have already said, only three things change. I would say, the current situation is in line with the real situation because the election and director of the Agency have already been carried out long ago, and as far as I know certain expositions and employees are doing the tasks that this Law and envisions. Of course, like all predecessors, and especially the SDP Club, I support these amendments and the additions of the law and I intend, not necessarily repeating what the predecessors said, look back at a few things. In fact, the amendments to the law explicitly state what is changing, and in my explanation, I would say that more is a list of wishes or what we want to do to the agency, but we also raise the total of relationships to a much higher level. First of all, allow for faster development of inland navigation, enable faster construction, editing, maintenance of waterways, but I would say and make a necessary step in the other direction. Our rivers and Drava and Danube and Sava are unfortunately still very unused resources and especially on the Sava River inland navigation is very little represented, which is almost inadmissible. I come from Slavonski Brod, and unfortunately, as a citizen of the City of Brod, I must say that most of my fellow citizens live by the Sava River, not the Sava River, which further confirms what we are doing and in which direction we should move on. However, these amendments and additions to the Law do not address the essence of problems related both to the Agency and to the overall problem of inland water navigation. In the light of this Act, it is said that by changing the headquarters of the Agency and beginning to dig up the Danube-Sava channel, the work of the Agency will be significantly more effective. I'm a little skeptical when it comes to the Danube-Sava channel. In fact, the year will be 2 hundred 70 years as the first mention of the Danube-Sava channel is made, and the basic desire to even mention the construction or construction of the Danube-Sava channel is the fact that, for the purposes of building corridor 5C, there is a need for enormous amounts of gravel and that on the path of the future canal and in certain places there will be, in fact, the exploitation of gravel and other materials for the needs of corridor 5C one move to solve 2 problems, which is commendable and certainly economical. But there is another problem that I have to start thinking about, and also on the trail of what the Honorable Vice-President of the Parliament said in the name of the club, I think, State Secretary, in order for the second reading, and especially in the second stage, it is necessary to make more efforts to change this law in a much larger way and to allow for much greater efficiency and the Agency, but also for all others who are simply relying on this Law. We know about the problems of the interstate agreement, we know about the problems of exploitation of gravel, sand and ore wealth from the Sava River, we know about unsettled relations, we know about the novelty of the waterway cinema, and we know that the Republic of Croatia has several times more expensively paid for its resources than what would be objectively necessary. Namely, concessionaries were chosen to exploit gravel from the Sava River. The Republic of Croatia, I will say roughly, has 4 or 5 kuna per cubic cubicity from the cubes, and the same gravel concessionaries sell 40 kunas for the construction of 5C corridors or any other infrastructure facilities that are again of interest to the Republic of Croatia. I think that this trail will need to be done in a different sense, step forward and change the approach, I'd say, in the exploitation of gravel. Because on the one hand, it's unsustainable, on the other hand it's too expensive. And when I say unsustainable, I'm only going to tell you one piece of information that I'm familiar with, probably the Secretary of State and the rest of you are far more familiar. In fact, the overexploitation of gravel in the Sava River is only on a waterway in Slavonski Brod, the middle waterway of the Sava River back several years down 65 centimeters, on Shamac for 115 centimeters and I would say further downriver. Not only is this a disrupted level of groundwater, but there are also a number of other problems in maintaining the trough itself, as well as all objects within the Sava River. On the other hand, I think that the new law would be necessary to coordinate relations, but I would also say the competences between individual institutions that rely or have tasks do the same work only with different competences on our internal waters. For example, here, we were also talking about the Agency which should take care of its jurisdiction, but there are port administrations, there are captains, docks, there are Croatian waters, since Danube and Sava is one and another border river. So the border, there's border police, there's customs, so overlapping jurisdiction is simply often an obstacle to the more effective work of each of these institutions. So, with these amendments and the additions to the Law, obviously not all problems have been solved. Here is only necessarily a rescheduled state and allowed to make a significant step. I believe that in the quality changes of this Law will allow for both better quality and... They're having fun. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Criminal provisions in existing laws have not solved many things, have been dealt with by rules, sublegal acts, and yet on the ground it creates quite a lot of confusion. I'll just say one more example, I could list more... I'm running out of time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is for us to think about finally solving a burning problem where between our captains, i.e. the port administrations, it is related to the management of boats and inland waters tests are taken for boats, as well as at sea, but it is unacceptable that one who lays down for the boat leader in Sisak, Osijek, Vukovar, Slavonski Brod, when he comes to Split, cannot manage the boat, and at the same time Hungarian when he comes or any other, despite the lack of international rights, this same permit is recognised. So as we live in one country, I believe that legal solutions should also be dealt with that which, because of some other interests, this cannot be solved. To conclude, I support the adoption of this Act, and I expect in the second reading that we will also do what is in the name of the club, but also other colleagues who are instructed to receive feedback, and that the Resort Ministry will make more important efforts to welcome a new law that will solve many of the problems of sailing on internal waters as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69509	Thank you very much. Replica, Antun Kapraljevic, dear colleague. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69510	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague, Raven. He's been talking very nicely about how it's not just important to change these two, three articles as far as they're concerned. Well, among other things, he mentioned that story about gravel, and I'd like to remind you when we had that story when the rabbit was driven out of the woods and when it was told about the quarryes, it was also a story about the pebbles, and among other things it was realized that one 30 percent of the legal what the quarrys, which is the pebble and this story when you say that 4, 5 kunas get state out of many states gets nothing. So the first thing to do is get the state to get anything. Those who extract that gravel devastate the coast, destroy the waterways, reduce the waterway rivers, so that's one of the preconditions for the agency to even start working. The second thing you mentioned is interstate agreements. We haven't dealt with a single virtually large river on these rivers, on the Mura, or on the Danube. On either side of the river, we have territory on the other side of those rivers, and we haven't cleared it out. After all, today is not the bridge that leads from our territory to our territory, it is not open because Slovenia has written some kind of protest note. Oh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69511	Replication response, Comrade Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69512	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Kapraljevic, I agree with you, time simply did not allow me to elaborate more significantly at least for me known problems related to the exploitation of gravel not only from the Sava River but from other rivers. I would say that it is especially for Savi El Dorado, and it is rare that concessions for certain areas for the exploitation of the mineral wealth are given to individual concessionaries that due to unresolved relations with the neighbouring Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the same concessionaire is a little bit on the one hand, a little on the other hand, and how it suits him and transports or delivers gravel. As far as I'm aware, here's the latest information most of these concessionaries import gravel from the Sava River, so from Bosnia that were extracting in the Sava River, but they import it from Bosnia and sell it in the Republic of Croatia. That is why I said that more important efforts are needed to make the interstate agreement signed as soon as possible, that the Sava Commission will start working as soon as possible, and then these problems will be resolved very quickly. It's very simple to solve this problem if he's only in good faith. Today technology has gone so far forward, and respecting what is the task and the captainship, but also the port administrations with a quality GPS device that would be required on each ship if 24 hours are included each shipowner can work 24 hours as he wills, only has to come to account. So we understand each other, but we expect precisely for these reasons that the Resort Ministry will step in this direction as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69513	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Replica, colleague Tadic. Here's a colleague of Tadic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69514	Well, fellow Raven is in his speech... one very interesting topic, which is whether it is worth the boat management licenses a man lays by the river and at sea. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't think they should actually be worth it because it's one thing to sail the Sava or the Drava, and the other thing is to sail the sea and vice versa. The question is how much of a man who's used to sailing on the sea is aware of all the problems he has with the river, the springs, the resources, the queens, is a completely different way of sailing. In addition, at sea is a common phenomenon of wrinkles that is fatal to most tourists coming from Central European countries, each year say 20 Czechs who are confused by the fact that it seems to them that from Bol to Hvar is very little, but in the evening the storm blows and dies at this very small distance. But the second question is why the Croatian state tolerates the Italians to sail in Croatia with boat management licenses that have at least been obtained on far easier terms than our people do.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69515	Replication response, Comrade Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69516	Thank you very much. My colleague Tadic, I know that the difference between the middle and the middle is simply inevitability. I come from the interior, I learnt to swim on Savi, so I know how to swim at sea. One who takes care of safety, one who takes care of the environment, takes care of others in my opinion should not have any problems with the quality of what he has learned to apply in any environment. With this analogy, and I'm not an expert on boats to understand, that analogy should then go so that whoever passes the driver's exam in Slavonia can't drive in Lica or Dalmatia and so on. I think the profession should work it out another way. And besides, I'll tell you not to name my great colleague and friend from Slavonski Brod, he's the chairman of the Shipowners' Association, the most powerful association on the Adriatic, he owns a dozen ships. So it doesn't have to mean that whoever comes from the inside won't be equally capable and I note that responsibility is above all under any other conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69517	The final word of the applicant's representative. Here you go, Secretary of State Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69518	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council! Here, in the end, I'm going to look very briefly at some other suggestions that are highlighted in the debate. In the part relating to the rules on boats or boats on the one hand and on the other hand on the ship's rulebook, yachts are currently in the process of harmonising both regulations so that the unique examinations passed by boat leaders on inland waterways and boat and boat and boatmasters and for a certain length clearly to a certain maximum length of the boat may also apply to those who receive and pass the test for boat manager and boat manager or yacht manager. Therefore, we are in the process of unifying these rules, that the same rules apply, or that the same test should be taken by the boat leader and the boat leader clearly respecting each other's specificities. In the section relating to gravel, gravel is not just the issue of this law. Namely, he's the problem with this law when gravel collapses if I can say there... the waterway and, in that case, the staff of the port captains in their regular surveillance should determine what and how it happens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is clear that the issue is then concessioning, and in large part of the illegal gravel on Croatian rivers, so in this part where this gravel happens most, and this is clearly sought by the neighbouring state on the Sava River through the Sava Commission, because largely and mostly, this gravel is happening on the right side of the Sava River, and therefore we are working through the Sava Commission if it can encourage the neighbouring country to address the issue of monitoring the unauthorized use of gravel from the Sava River. The third thing he also didn't mention was the issue of shipyards that Mr. Vice President made in his address, so I have to say that we are aware of the fact that a large part of the ships if not almost all Croatian ships that sail in the inner waters were carrying out all the repairs and repairs outside Croatia, so in this sense, in Sisak we built a remont shipyard, it was invested over 20 million kunas, which are already in operation. Such a similar shipyard is planned in Slavonski Brod. Therefore, even in other Croatian ports clearly wherever the need for this is indicated, but at this point, at some point, Slavonski Brod is one of our priorities, and therefore the situation will certainly be improved and this situation was clearly conditioned by the fact that practically long time Croatian internal waterways were closed, they were not in function due to war activities. I'd like to tell Mr. Kapralevich again. The agency's working. The 2006 budget provides 40 million kuna for the agency's work. Out of 40 million most of them almost 90% are planned to perform work on marking and keeping waterways but also for needed employment. I said we did, the agency worked, there are nine employees. However, the remaining could not, could not be filled in until it was clear that only the headquarters was established so that when the seat was established, a tender could be opened for the remaining employees and I assume that someone who sees in the ad that the place of work in Vukovar would not come from Zagreb, Sisak or Koprivnica. Clearly, then, the workplace probably also conditioned the tendering and then clearly and only to report to that competition. I'll do it again anyway. By next session in September we will have, I am convinced that the government will refer to the procedure so that the five-year waterway maintenance plan, the five-year plan for the construction of Croatian ports on internal waters in which the current state and waterways will be planned and the current situation in Croatian ports on internal waters. We are at this point in the phase of harmonisation of legislation is clearly in the chapter of transport with the acquis of the European Union, and in this sense it is clear that this law that we are changing today is going through the screening procedure. We'll do it when he's done and... a phase and a bilateral phase to see how much further it is necessary to make changes to the law itself in that part of harmonisation, and clearly in that and all that is said in today's debate and all that we ourselves know is still needed to change and we will go to full amendments to the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So at this point, we've been going with this one technical change because it was a practical need and all those other thoughts and needs of amending the law itself will be dealt with all the way next year. So, the plan is to change the law in a larger volume then go only next year after it's over... the phase and bilateral phase in the process of harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69519	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We will vote on this bill when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69520	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on Inland water navigation. Proposal for a conclusion: "A proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Inland Water Navigation is adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 89 votes and 1 abstentions, the proposed conclusion was accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69521	We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. - Proposal for a Law on elemental accidents, first reading of P.Z. No. 516 The proposed law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, the Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government. You received their reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Yeah. The word has a Minister of Finance, Mr. Ivan Shuker. Here you go, Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69522	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! So allow me just a few details before I say something about a proposal to amend this law. So, I'm talking about the data in 2004. Thus, in Croatia there were a total of thousands of hectares of various agricultural cultures, of which 600,000 hectares are located in incentives, in a system of incentives and somewhere around 400 thousand hectares are not in the incentive system, and it is precisely the problem of people farmers who are in these 400 thousand hectares, because under the existing law those who are not in the incentive system are practically not able to obtain State subsidies for the conclusion of insurance policies and according to the data of 2004, out of these 600 thousand hectares, a total of these 600 thousand hectares has been secured, and only in Croatia, because other insurance companies did not have such policies around 152 thousand hectares of total heated areas and natural and legal persons, and from the State budget is subsidized 20 million 476 thousand kuna or for natural persons 5 million and 50 thousand kuna, and for legal persons 15 million kuna. Given that the system currently in place for damage caused by natural disasters and the resources provided in the State budget are certainly not sufficient for the damages caused by the elemental disasters. A new aid model is proposed for damages from natural disasters in order to help more effectively through participation in the payment of insurance policy from possible damages to agricultural production and as we have suggested, and as we have said for those who are not participants, who are not in the incentive system, it is proposed that the state pay 40% of the policy, 20% of the cities and municipalities, 20% of the county. Also, since we have an unequal fiscal power of local self-government units according to a special regulation that will be adopted by the Ministry of Finance and proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it is proposed that those units that have weaker fiscal power and cannot ensure these 20% that these units are provided with funding in the State budget. In such a way, we ensure equality for all farmers so that it does not happen that where units of local self-government do not have funds in the budget, these farmers could not get insurance funds. And according to the proposed model, the average insurance policy for agricultural production is about 374 kuna per hectare. For the value of secured production per hectare of 8 thousand 731 kuna. So the insurance company would pay 20% of the policy depending on the area and the culture where the damage occurred. He would get damage insurance from, in the amount of 8 thousand and 731 kuna, and his policy would be 75 kuna a year. Here's the shortest I could do. Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest you support this amendment to the law. In such a way, all farmers who are and who are not in the incentive system would be able to secure their crops. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69523	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. Do the representatives of the working bodies want to take the floor? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, President of the Pankretic Department. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69524	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, the Committee discussed at its 41st session of the Proposed Law on elemental disasters as a parent body. Following the opening argument, although the proposal was made not to accept the majority of the Committee members as a result of the indetermination of certain provisions, it supported their acceptance in the first reading. This law proposes a new aid model for damages from natural disasters and for the purpose of more effective allocation of aid. The Committee held a written opinion submitted by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce on the draft law. The principle debate on the Proposal for a Law on elemental disasters raises doubts as to the solution to be taken away from the Croatian Parliament by the power it has under the applicable Law on the protection of natural disasters and passed on to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This refers to the appointment of the State Commission for the assessment of damages from natural disasters. It also draws attention to the fact that this proposal for a law essentially regulates only protection against natural disasters for extensive agricultural production carried out on small surfaces and on which the yields are low and that commercial production remains outside that system. The Act on State support in agriculture, fisheries and forestry does not oblige users of state incentives to provide incentives for promotional cultures. Specific examples have been presented in the debate on certain delays. In Article 2 of the definition of a legal person, trades in agriculture are covered by the Law on the trade of a natural person. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In Article 10(4), paragraph 4 should determine which units of local self-government are weaker fiscal powers to which the share in the allocation of the cost of insurance of agricultural production and finished products is to be paid by the State. In Article 11, paragraph 2 of the conditions for the exercise of the right to State aid should, for reasons of transparency, be laid down by law and not by regulation, but, in the event that they are laid down in the same Regulation, the Minister rather than the Ministry as referred to in paragraph 2. On the basis of the debate, the Committee adopted most of the votes and recommended that this Law be adopted by the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69525	Thank you, fellow Pankretic. Does anyone else want to speak on behalf of the working bodies? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First on behalf of the HDZ Club, respected counterpart Niko Rebic. Here's your colleague, Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69526	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, Mr. Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club holds that it is high time to pass a new Law on elemental disasters. We think mostly in agriculture because it is now evident if we compare ourselves with the countries of the European Union, and we have some neighbouring countries far the worst I would say a long time ago survived the model. According to the model in the State budget, relatively small means of recovery were provided, we think mainly in agriculture, and a large number of claims were generally made. In fact, the model is from those times when these regularly inaccessible assets have not even reached those that have been damaged. As a rule, they were over-indulgenced for some of the more important investments of general interest. That's why we think this is a good suggestion. This is the first reading. We think it's a good basis and that with some improvements, we can come to a good law. Now in force, the Protection Act against elementary disasters, which was adopted in 1997, has a number of significant shortcomings. The first aid shall be granted to all natural persons and exclusively legal persons who have not provided their agricultural production or to all unsecured persons covered by the state support model and those outside the model. So both. The aid shall be given at more than one basis for the same damage. The injured party has no obligation to protect its assets from the action of the elemental accident primarily all those in the incentives. The risk lies only with the state. Help is often symbolic. The level of the confirmed damage is linked to the level of the budget of the unit of local self-government and there are also a number of other shortcomings. This way of recovery of damage in the present conditions is no longer sustainable because it does not nearly mitigate the resulting consequences, and requires a large engagement of people, it is long-term and generates greater costs than the amount of aid obtained so that we often have an example that units of local self-government cannot easily divide these small amounts and is not a rare case of returning money to the state budget. These shortcomings in the applicable law are addressed by this proposal to help secure the current agricultural production prescribed in the law. According to the proposal for a law, assistance would be provided to natural persons who are not in the state support model in part of the insurance costs of current agricultural production, as well as to aid for partial recovery of damages from natural disasters that cannot be secured. That's where you mostly think of the drought. It follows that for the provided agricultural production aid would be granted on one basis only, meaning from the activities of the State budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy for all producers in the support model or from the activities of the State budget of the Ministry of Finance for all producers not using state support if they provided their agricultural production to insurance companies. The model of providing assistance to the insurance of current agricultural production would include all state participants with 40%, the county with 20%, municipalities and cities with 20% and the rest of the 20% insurance policy would be paid by the insurance company. This way would encourage farmers to significantly increase the insurance of agricultural production. The insurance would receive part of the compensation of the insurance policy for the insurance production and would have the right to compensate for the damage to the security level. What should be more clear and precise or even redesigned concerns some of the proposals in the articles of the proposed law. For example, Article 9 provides that agricultural production in the open air is not covered by the production of plastics and greenhouses. We therefore propose that Article 9 "open" should be released, and the text of the sentence is translated into: "agricultural production within the meaning of this law includes" etc. Because we remember the consequences of the plastics and greenhouses left the elemental disasters in the Neretva Valley when the snow applications destroyed both construction and production. Article 10(1) of the State participates with 40% in the insurance costs of only those economies which are not in the state support model while, for example, on the other hand, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry participates with 25% of the agricultural production insurance policy which goes to the market unlike this previously which is primarily complementary activity or hobby. That's what I think we should do better by the second reading. Or item 4 of the same article that says, "State through the Ministry of Finance will pay up to 20% of the value of the insurance policy to units of local self-government less fiscal power." This should be further defined as to what this applies, as the following is not defined if the more detailed concept of weaker fiscal power of the state could be paid up to 60% of the insurance policy to those economies that are not in the state support model. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. "the help of the country to quickly resolve the consequences of a natural disaster for unsecured cultures when units of local self-government are unable to provide assistance themselves". So this should also be more detailed as to what and what are the possibilities or Article 28 that says, therefore, that everything and who is a member of the municipal or city committee is not listed at all. What we believe is very important, i.e. crucial when it comes to this law, which is that this Law on elemental disasters primarily protects the agricultural production of natural persons engaged in agriculture as an additional activity. This is where we finally have to determine what we want, because today in the world agriculture is becoming less and less complementary activity, it is increasingly a serious business. Finally, this law does not cover all the elemental disasters and their recovery, such as earthquakes. I do not know how to resuscitate, therefore damaged buildings, infrastructure and everything else, and I believe that this should be more clearly defined as saying in the very name that this is the Law on elemental disasters and damages in agricultural production, for example. I think that should be it. We end up thinking that the bill has good and well-founded reasons, intentions and goals, so the HDZ Club supports its adoption, and all that until the second reading that with the proposals, with this all together to improve it and I think we will finally get one good law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69527	Thank you. SDP's club, Honorable Representative Mato Gavran. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69528	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, members of the government. The SDP club also holds that it is high time to pass a new Law on elemental disasters, and we do not doubt that the proposer's intention is also good this time. However, the SDP club cannot and will not support this proposal of the Law on elemental disasters, and this is because, in our opinion, the proposed legal solutions neither solves any problem, nor in an appropriate quality and comprehensive way, repairs the damage caused by elemental disasters. We think, on the contrary, that the proposed legislative decisions of the Government as an authorised proposing almost act as an elemental disaster both towards agricultural producers who are seriously engaged in agricultural production and to units of local, regional and regional self-government, which additionally imposes new financial obligations beyond their will, knowledge and consent. We in the SDP keep this approach not only inappropriate but absolutely unacceptable. We also experience decentralisation and subsidiarity in a significantly different way than this is suggested. The proposed Law on elemental disasters provides assistance for part of the insurance costs of current agricultural production and only to those natural persons not covered by the state support model on any basis and on any volume. While aid for partial recovery would be subject to the possibility of a state budget and budget of units of local or regional (regional) self-government from natural disasters for those agricultural products which cannot be guaranteed. It is unquestionable that in this way the government financially supports a very narrow circle and that relative number of natural persons who are extensively engaged in agricultural production. By the way, I would say, on small areas with a contribution almost negligible for Croatian frameworks, in a way that the state through the Ministry of Finance participates with 2/5 counties, i.e. cities and municipalities with each of the 1/5 policy insurance policies while the end-user would pay for the remaining 1/5 policy insurance and only for those cultures that can be provided in accordance with Article 9. A proposal from this law. And Article 9 says that these are ratites and vegetable cultures, fruit and vine fruit material, liquid fruit production, olives and grapes, multi-annual agricultural plantations, orchards, vineyards, olive groves and others, forests, forest cultures and plantations, livestock and beekeeping. In the light of the proposed law, the Government points out that aid is more efficient in this way, better protected by the material interest of natural persons in the event of injury, to ensure greater stability of agricultural production, i.e. the income of farmers, better regulated by economic relations, better protected by the interests of the state, and to introduce order and reduce costs related to the reporting and processing of the damages incurred. Furthermore, the Government points out that such a legislative solution covers all agricultural producers, which are driven from the state budget to significantly greater insurance of agricultural production, the objective of which is to ensure greater stability of agricultural production and thus the overall security of the state. Is that right? We of the SDP think it's not or more accurate that it's not entirely. This way neither protects nor improves agricultural production in quality. We think it's even the opposite. The proposed Act does not cover all those agricultural producers which are in the system of State aid in agriculture, fisheries or forestry. Therefore, all those who are the backbone of stable and safe agricultural production. They are expected by the government to secure their own cultures, and to achieve partly financial support of the insurance policy, but not according to this Law and this model. So 4/5 basically states, units of local self-government and county, and 1/5 I'm a security guard. It is under the Law on State Support in Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry, and as the Law says, I quote: "In accordance with the envisaged resources in the state budget for the current year", the quote concluded. And that in the given position which are certainly respecting the knowledge of the budget more than symbolic and in any case unquestionably insufficient. And we are witnessing that the damages from year to year are unfortunately increasing. If I'm not mistaken, five million kunas are planned for 2005 in this position. In addition to this, all these legal entities, therefore, all the family farms government, based on this bill, prevents aid from the state budget for... As a result of the elemental disasters, however large they may be. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Whether on liquid production, finished agricultural products, construction facilities or equipment. The villains, reading the government's explanation, would say that in this way the government is effectively confirming social sensitivity, all-insistently helping the development of agrarians, supporting competitiveness on the principle of survival. In due time, by testing the endurance of agricultural producers in the future, I am sure or sure of the ruthless international competition. In addition, the Government skillfully washes its hands for damages from natural disasters, transfers all responsibility to end-users and units of local, or regional, self-government, and leaves the public with the impression of a large care provider for small people and their life problems. It is believed that this trail has been promised to the peasant associations these days to increase the incentive to produce wheat per hectare of the surface. Namely, with an additional 6 hundred kuna, if it stays so per hectare, the plan is by already seen model for all agricultural producers to take for insurance and recovery damage several times more money. And all with an explanation as it was initially said, quality protection of the state's interest. For these reasons, we in the SDP hold that the quality simulation of the costs of this Act is omitted and the applicant points out that the implementation of this Act does not require any additional resources other than the budget planned by the Ministry of Agriculture and by the programme of 20 million kuna. From what I've seen, something is now increasing in budget rebalancing, and it will be of course interesting to see this year's budget in that position and the plan for next year. We are confident that our evaluations that I made at the time will be confirmed, and the interests of the state by quotes will be well protected. For all of us, and for the citizens in particular, unfortunately, if this is achieved, a lack of comfort, especially for all those agricultural producers, because we know in advance that the financial capacity of their units of local, or regional, self-government is insufficient to implement this proposed law. On condition that, unfortunately, damages cannot be affected by events. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if we cannot have a more significant impact on the hierarchy of time and on the increasing frequency of natural disasters. The truth often also with its will, inappropriate nature attitude, but also with the absence of quality prevention began well-organised and timely anti-tour defenses, by investing more in the canal network, faster build up of accumulation and retention, primarily in the nabujski waterways, shaming etc. One thing is certain, for quality legal solutions, well-measured solutions, justified and particularly based certainly can. This bill, which is before us, does not offer quality solutions for us from the SDP, it is not good, at least as it is proposed, it does not protect the interests of agricultural producers, but also of all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and therefore the SDP club, as I said, cannot support the adoption of this Act, and we believe that you too will be offered especially with the views of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Agriculture, read and justify our views. We continue to think and argue that the need to adopt this Act is absolutely necessary, but that it must be quite different, and therefore we propose to the Government that it would be most appropriate to withdraw this proposal from the procedure and deliver to us as soon as possible a comprehensive Law on elemental disasters that will cover all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and primarily all agricultural producers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69529	Thank you. The HNS club, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69530	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, dear ministers. This Law defines that the elemental disasters are earthquakes stronger than 7 degrees Mercalia, storm winds stronger than 8 bofors, fires, floods, droughts, battles, frosts, extremely high snow, avalanches, ice on waterways and sinks. And he says that those who suffer damage due to these fundamental disasters will be entitled to state aid. At first glance, very well, and as soon as I read it, I was happy because finally, we came to a law that those who suffer damage will have the right to state aid, but then the law says that this right to state aid will only be achieved by those who have crops, cultures that are not encouraged or if they have cultures that cannot be provided. What are these agricultural cultures that cannot be secured under general insurance rules? Corn, wheat, rye, bees, forests, fish in the Adriatic Sea, for example Can they be secured from the elemental disasters? A late cold in April, say, fighting in July or dry August. And if we excuse those who are... Incentives, which conclude the insurance policy and have a culture which can be provided by law further defines that state aid, you see for wonders giving not state but county and municipalities or cities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have come back to a great desire for decentralisation, and I really must admit that these 30 months have been so many decentralisation laws that we haven't passed in the last 15 years when we impose financial obligations on local and regional self-government because the county has to give 20% of the cost of insurance, municipalities and the city another 20%. Those who are weaker in financial conditions, it says, I don't know what criteria of the weaker financial situation, which the laboratory is doing that analysis is not described in the Law have the right to some benefits. So, for the next financial year, is further funding foreseen for the counties, municipalities and cities, more original funds, or is that money going to come to the local community? Can we imagine the behavior of farmers after the adoption of this law that will ensure their agriculture, but the municipalities won't be able to get this 20% because the municipality will say we don't have the money? Who's going to blame these people? The municipal government, the city government and the county that something the state said had not given them. Mr. Minister, if he doesn't have to, then the law needs to be amended, that is, those provisions of the law. Mr. Minister, I warn you that life and law enforcement in the cabinet is one thing and on the ground another. We promise farmers that the state will give them 40% because the state has to give it or can give it? So, does the law say that 40% of states have to give and municipalities can give? Are the same formulations used from these 40% state, 20% county and 20% municipal and cityal? I read that he must give, that everyone must give. If no one has to give it away then let's just say I can give it away. Do the county have to give 20%? I think it is necessary until the second reading to read the provisions of the Law again and see if these 40, 20, 20 must give, can give, can give or is it something third? The word "participation" is mandatory for me. It's not about choice. It's about participation. It doesn't say "can participate" if the funds in the budget are secured. So why is this called state aid if municipalities, cities, local and regional self-government gives money? Then it's not state aid or just state aid. It's the help of a local community. The arrangements and conditions for the exercise of rights shall be laid down by the Ministry of Finance to the Regulations. Why the Ministry of Finance regulations? Why do we not lay down all the rights of the citizens of this country, the individual, the specific rights converted into kunas, in laws, but in implementing regulations? Why is it that every time it comes to the right of a farmer, the owner, the citizen, we write it in laws, we don't do it now, but we do it with implementing regulations? What's the problem? We don't know how much money we have or is that a secret? Furthermore, for crops and cultures that could not be secured and there was an elementary accident assessment of the damages done by the municipal, city, county commissions. Now let's simulate the situation that there are two plots next to each other. On one plot is a culture which is secured and on another which cannot be secured. And the municipal commission estimates that the damage is 80% and the insurance company that secured my orchard says the damage to my orchard is only 5%. What now? What are we doing with this approach? Insurance companies get a situation for hunting in a blur, and only in their own, they make decisions at the height of the insurance and payment policy, assess the damage themselves, and pay the damages themselves. This assessment by the commission under this law has no effect on the assessment of whoever secured my culture. We're going to get farmers to insurance, municipalities, cities and counties to pay their required obligations, insurance companies to collect money for insurance, and when there's an elemental accident, then the damage will be minimal to those who pay and people will be helpless because we haven't fully defined that insurance system. Was the wind stronger than 8 bofors when he knocked down 40% of the trees in my orchard? Where are the measuring instruments, who's going to prove the wind strength that can be different a mile away? It's not an elemental accident otherwise if it's not stronger than 8 bofors, it says in the law. Is it a reduced birth rate because of the drought? If no elemental accident has been declared by the mayor, it has not happened. And it is used as a element for those damages it makes for unsecured crops and does not oblige insurance companies. Does the declaration of a natural disaster oblige insurance companies to recognise the damage to the elemental accident when it is declared? It's not clearly written in the law. They say 50% of the culture is to protect nets from fighting and water against frost, water spraying. And that's right. Only in Croatia protection networks against fighting are more expensive than "St. Petra eggs" and the cold protection system are more expensive than that. Are they an incentive for fruits and vegetables? Does it mean that whoever gets a boost from a net of fighting has no right to compensation for the damage to the drought or the cold, or the flood? Just because of these indeterminateities and wanting to believe that the promoter had all this in mind, I think that this law should get at least a dozen more articles but perhaps link it to those laws that regulate the issue of insurance. Someone thinks it's funny to see it. Talk to farmers who have secured crops and have spent years fighting, freezing and floods at 50 acres of their land, who have invested their last kuna in seeds and protective funds and all of this has gone to hell. How much did they get damages from insurance companies? On what terms and when? After talking to these people, it would be good to write a new text of the law for a second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69531	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69532	Well, I'd have a lot to fix, but so counterpart Lesar said that local self-government units have to pay 20% of the insurance policy and in Article 10(4) says, "The state through the finance ministry will pay up to 20% of the value of the insurance policy to units of local self-government less fiscal power.". So, not those who have will pay and those who are weaker fiscal powers for them will be provided by the state through the Ministry of Finance 20% of the funds. Thank you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69533	Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69534	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, regardless of these late hours, I think this law is of paramount importance and that some things need to be clarified. Unfortunately, we, on the one hand, fit, then we're a country of market economy because it's so convenient to talk and when we're supposed to put ourselves on that harsh market, then we'll go through it. They should also know that in the trend of harmonising Croatian legislation with the European Union, the aid law is both in agriculture and in the economy one of the most important laws. And that law regulates support that goes towards certain areas for certain things. That is why there is also the former agriculture minister, Pankretic, a register was introduced by the farmers' register, the possibility that all Croatian farmers should be enrolled in the register and that they should be granted the right to support on the basis of this. And a normal thing, and now I can tell my colleague Lesar I was one of the first as mayor of one city to apply the programme and, not one of the first but first because ultimately, according to what was happening in Velika Gorica, Croatia's insurance has made some kind of insurance model. In practice, we were first aware that farmers only through insurance companies could protect themselves and ensure that natural disasters were not happening without what you said about whether someone or not would pay off when I came to the Minister of Finance then I was aware that there was a lot of things wrong in our insurance and that there was no game if you hadn't set the rules of the game and the judge, so we changed the Insurance Act precisely because someone couldn't do what they wanted if someone paid him the policy and waited for his mercy whether something should be paid or not. And also when it comes to decentralisation, you forgot very interestingly that how the agricultural land distribution programme is progressing and that more and more agricultural land or selling or renting a large part of these revenues belongs to local self-government units. And the most logical thing to do is to get that money from renting and selling agricultural land back to agriculture. Another thing this means and this law that speaks exclusively of ensuring those agricultural areas that are not in the support system is so small for all units of local self-government that there is no mention that they could not participate in the process. But I say the easiest thing to do is to find an observation that something will not happen and, of course, talk again about decentralisation and decentralised means and unargumented to claim that some things do not stand. This law is also tied to a number of other laws. And among other things, if you'd read the Protection and Rescue Act, you'd probably have made things clearer. Because the Protection and Rescue Act regulates a series of things that were previously regulated by the Law on elemental disasters. So if we're talking about basic agricultural disasters where the support is, then 25% of the state's participation in the insurance policy that needs to be paid is treated with support. Because those who are in the fostering and support system in agriculture are engaged in economic activity because agriculture is an economic activity and it is in all international aid criteria. And that's why they're in the support system. That is why this Law has been specifically done, however, in order to tell you no matter how strange it may seem to you, but, let's say, in 2004, the local self-government units of land leased yielded nearly 50 million kuna. And we said that the total for these policies that are planned so where the state should subsidise plans that shouldn't be more than 10, 15 million in next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69535	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Dragutin Lesar. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69536	I must correct Mr. Minister's incorrect claim that I forgot that there is a programme for renting farm land that is being paid and that part of it is the income of local self-government. I didn't forget that first. And secondly, there are units of local self-government that have the Law on Agricultural Land and which do not. Those who earn and earn income, and especially those they have in the lease, without the renters paying them. Especially where the state intervened in the lease and extended payments. Thus, by adding 50 million at the state level and claiming that this is enough money for all municipalities, rather than starting with the fact that there are local self-government ministers, unfortunately, and unfortunately for me, you're wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69537	Second correction by the respected representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69538	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'd like to correct the incorrect quote when you are, when Mr. Secretary said there's no mention that some of you might not be able to pay for it. There's a community like Donja Motričina whose budget is 700 thousand kuna. ... Yeah, but 20%. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] 700 thousand kuna. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Of which, when they pay everything they have to pay 50 thousand kuna, they're left with it. And where does it say Moticini will be paid from the State budget?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69539	Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic, Club of HSS Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69540	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, so here's what I'm going to try to say on behalf of the HSS Club about this law. First of all, I cannot deny that the intentions of this Law are not good, but unfortunately we will have to conclude and it is very clear that it is difficult to assess who this Law will apply to? If we define this all that's in the law now, according to the previous law, we first excluded legal persons. They were not involved in the compensation of the elemental accident. Under this Act, we now exclude commercial economies but not only commercial but all those receiving any support, which means not only those which are commercial and receive subsidies in a certain way but also those who receive income support because they stand and receive support for rural development. I'm not sure, I wouldn't want to judge Mr. Minister whether the exact information you said was left over then within that somewhere 400 thousand acres of it uncovered. I think there might be a lot of discussion about that. What I unfortunately have to say is what's the problem. The possibility of solving a secret problem from an elemental accident is the only insurance and it knows it was still introduced when I was in the ministry I have to say in a way to try to solve things for the benefit of people and to try to do a permanent thing. Many counties, many cities have joined that part but one part has not. Unfortunately, these are the facts. Now, when you look at this data, at least I have, unfortunately, we come up with a pretty devastating fact that we're still only about 6.7% of those who deal with agriculture, so now we can exchange that percentage like this, like in insurance. It means that after two, three years of application, people definitely didn't get into security. Now that they're not people in insurance, they don't have the ability to objectively protect themselves from an elemental accident, and what they have left in this part of it is state aid. I'm worried about one thing right now. If we couldn't activate enough the commercial economies we subsidized from the state level are 25%. From the county level, 25%. From the city level, 25% of them haven't been animated enough, I don't know what we didn't do, but they didn't get inside. It's a fact that's definitely the way it is. We are now not helping those who have not entered, but now we say others who are small family economies that are not in any support system if they do not provide nothing. So let's definitely make sure that those who are commercial haven't accepted that model don't know for which reason they haven't entered. I assure you that whoever has it was either a few lumps or who has a few fruit trees, that they will certainly not enter this incentive and that they will not enter the insurance system, as soon as it is not in the insurance system there is nothing... The one, if not, says so clearly in the law. If it is not in the system and if it has not secured its own production it cannot receive any, except for what the insurance company does not accept that it can provide. Now there's another double difference. We will have on one hand the legal person who has already been excluded, we will have the commercial family economies that receive any support and this small third now. Only this small third now is she unless the insurance company accepts them for a certain part they will be able to get some help for a elemental disaster, and those commercially large to whom the same insurance company will certainly not accept, they have unique criteria for everything, and even that legal person, they will not be able to have two, where the gross production is. I don't think the system works, it won't be good in that part, it didn't score. What happens after this objectively and happens that everyone will be excluded from the possibility of getting help for an elementary disaster. It's a fact that's going to happen in that part. Definitely legal persons are already under the previous law, under this law it is proposed for commercial, i.e. for all those holdings which are registered in that part of the register and will remain this small holding which will not provide. It is a fact and unfortunately I think that there and some too much fear that there will have to be municipalities, counties involved and should not be, because that part of people with some small production, with objective hobby production because it is not real production and will not provide. We will come to the fact that in reality under some law we will have no need at all then nor to determine what I do not know if such an agreement is that the Government must determine it and not the Parliament, the State Commission, I don't mind, but okay. There won't be any need in that part either. I think that with some different measures, I'm here to be not only critical of this, but certainly speaking with experience and what's real on the ground, trying in any other way to commit, to make the possibility of making a commitment to what's more important to us here. We now, in some ways, have made an indirect commitment. We will help municipalities and cities as far as the municipalities and cities are concerned, as well as these small farmers. What can happen to us? In some county, the commercial economy that deals with serious agriculture can receive only 25% if the county and the city have not made such a decision, and there are in Croatia and significantly, then it will only get these 25%. On the other hand this someone who deals with hobby production or in some way, can get these 80 because if and there are no municipalities then it will be given by the state, the county may if it didn't make any of that decision again maybe they'll jump in that state and then they will be. Now, to our end, our goal is, based on what should be, a good model insurance only possible protection through insurance, to bring the entire system. I'm afraid we skipped things. We will now come into a situation where no one can objectively get some compensation for the elemental disaster, we will find ourselves in a situation that will continue to be just us, and I do not believe that I am wrong about the data, 7-8% of the total agricultural area under insurance, and that percentage, unfortunately, when we talk about neighbouring countries, when we talk about Europe etc. You know it's the other way around, there's 93% in the insurance system and we don't have 93%, but we found methods back two, three years to increase it and it can be clearly read. I'm afraid by this law we're just deepening things. So I think he's too early, he'll come, and we all have to be aware one day he can only secure from the elemental accident, at least in some way protect the insurance. I think we're all aware that there can't be such a big fund anywhere that you could secure in the budget, etc. We had some extreme years when we were really intervened and I'd say in the right way and get over a certain difficulty. But until at least on this part we secure the grotesque of our production, and the gross of our production is the ones we put in the register, for which we have all defined ourselves together, i.e. and they chose that they are the ones on which we base Croatian agriculture, then they must be the ones who are already, for example. with 50, 60% already in the insurance system then we're sure that of course I'm never gonna have a double winter, then be these others, those small economies that don't objectively live on agriculture but have it in a hobby production and I don't know their own garden, etc. And then we can certainly take care of them that way, etc. Now, by moving into this, I'm afraid we're not going to do anything, we're going to have big problems, we're not gonna solve the problem in some way help from basic disasters, and I think we all need to think better together until the second reading how to solve this whole problem, and for these reasons, the HSS Club doesn't support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69541	Thank you. Honorable representative Zdenka Chuhnil for the National Minority Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69542	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Every year we witness elementary disasters and, above all, from fighting, floods, droughts and fires that cause the greatest damage to agriculture because it is an outdoor factory exposed to all the whims of nature. We have before us a law or a proposal for a law on elemental disasters that should prescribe a way of easing damage, but as the law says, which should regulate relations and ensure the stability of agricultural production, and hence income to the farmer. I have to say that this is incorrect because this law regulates protection primarily of small-scale hobby producers who have no conditions for incentives on the one hand, and on the other hand, I have the impression that they want to protect the state budget from participating the handling of a certain part of the damage. The family farms that are listed in the register of agricultural holdings that are indeed commercial, market-oriented and which represent the future of Croatian agriculture are excluded from this type of insurance in which the normal state, county, city and municipality participates and the insurance company itself. Legal persons can use support themselves from possible damages to production in the state aid system, but above all in the state support system with only 25% and what the county and municipalities were doing further was kind of voluntary. This law should bring together the co-financing of damage insurance from all natural disasters on all surfaces and lead an equal policy towards the same production and if they are secured equally. The minister here said that there are now some 150 thousand hectares in the insurance system and he was talking about the amounts, and I'm not going to repeat them. I wonder what about a million hectares that are under the incentives that are not secured and if I correctly interpret some items in this Law, they will de facto be excluded from this insurance system, or from any aid for the recovery of the damages suffered. In fact, in the back of the table, but also in the front of the article, it is clearly defined in Articles 5 and 6. It says state aid users are natural persons, insurance companies not covered by the state support model on any basis and any volume. Does this mean that income-based support users are also excluded? That would be interesting to hear. In fact, local self-government and administration units have so far had no special positions in their budgets to remove the consequences of the natural disasters when the disasters happened, indeed, they prayed to God that the damages would be greater than 20% of their budget so that they would certainly transfer the same to the state budget. Unfortunately, the state budget provided only 15 to 20 million kuna each year, some of these funds were spent on the work of the reports themselves, the work of the commission, and when it came to the ultimate damage, they were 20 kuna per hectare, not to say often less valuable than the delivery itself. Turns out we're in a vicious circle. So, we have more and more frequent elemental accidents, fights, because of the failure to function, often an inefficient anti-wall defense. Here it is said and the nets are expensive, they can be used from incentives. So if the use of incentives is no longer eligible for co-financing of insurance, they themselves bear further damage. Floods are also a common phenomenon, in fact, the consequences of often not maintaining the channel network, but, please, they are present. Droughts, lack of irrigation system, along with the richness of the river and the richness of water, but also bad technologies since we are the only ones who have prescribed incentives per hectare, not per yield. We're on technology under the '90s, so if we had better technology than fertilization, land-processing management, etc., surely both the damage and the drought would be less, but that's the regulation of some other law. When the damage occurs, the processing of data from the municipality, the municipal commission, to the ministry in the end is here and with us to the Parliament takes a year, and as I have already mentioned, the result is the help that, although it should be quick and secure, comes in a year, I say in a value that is so negligible. I think it would be an acceptable model to help with the allocation of funds to pay insurance policy against possible damages, but I repeat, it must cover all producers under equal conditions and in one law. He has to be followed in one ministry, not separated because this is how our records are bad, the flow of information is slow. Namely, we have, therefore, the promotion of insurance for now in the Ministry of Agriculture. It refers to encouraged surfaces, but partly. This system, which is now talking about incentives, says it will encourage small areas outside the incentive system, i.e. small areas outside the incentive system, and will be monitored by the Ministry of Finance. Which means we're going to make an even bigger mess that we often have in data processing, because I say we're going to follow into two ministries and it's going to be very hard to work on. In fact, let's not pass a law on the insurance of gardens and gardens, or better to say for the insurance of the hobby of the manufacturer, because we will certainly not regulate and ensure the stability of agricultural income production because market-oriented farmers, we will continue to write taxes, taxes, taxes, interest rates, interest on loans, because loans are not used by hobby producers but indeed market-oriented producers. Normally, we also write off water fees. Let us understand that precisely commercial, or market-oriented economies are carriers of serious agricultural production, with them the greatest damage, and if our system falls, our entire agriculture falls. Therefore, I ask you to take seriously who we protect in this Act, or who we will be participating co-financing of insurance against damage. I would also like to point out that I find this amazing, or vague article 20. Namely, it is said when you have the right to funds from the state budget and one is such a general formulation. It says, when normal strength, extent and consequences of the accident exceed the ability of local self-government to remove them or if the conduct of economic activities is impaired, life taking place at all. Who will evaluate it, or on the basis of which it can really be estimated that something exceeds the ability of local self - government. It is said here that in the event of inability to pay even 20% in payments, the state will participate in insurance policies. Does this mean that units of local self-government will quickly spend their resources, and then, please, who will determine in which way they will be given that 20%, or that they will have the right to be helped there. But otherwise, what are those units that have the right to assist from the state budget? I mean, I'm afraid we're going to put that back into the discretionary right of ruling policy that can be any, now I'm not really saying whether it's the current, future or the same again. But I think that definition when we defined 20% of the budget. It could be said that it's a low limit of 20% of the budget, but then it's kind of a measure. So, if necessary, let's say that it's 30, 40% of the budget when the damage is then obtained right from the state budget, but then it's still some sort of measure that can objectively use everything. And I'm saying, it's not discreetly right there. I'd like to do it right now, and it's the same here, and it's this part that really dissipates the Parliament. It is interesting to leave this at local level in representative bodies, but when we go to the state level then the Government gets all the powers and in deciding on the amount of funds, or on how to help. I think the verification would still have to have this House, or Parliament. Because as soon as possible, all documents are being held in the Parliament. That decision can be made if everything is done properly, in 10 days everything is done. Therefore, I think we should consider the final decision still being made by the Parliament. And after all, I think we should think about this law one more time, maybe pull it out because I say as much as I analyzed it in a joke I said it was a law that would ensure in my garden one cherry and two cherry, but I don't think I need it, it's exactly what serious producers need, and it's not protecting here. Let us pass a law that can oblige all those who use state support to secure their crops because it is possible. Where the state supports it, it has the right to seek protection and means that, with some help and participation, we would still have a million 150 thousand acres of insurance and quality protection then, but in this way certainly not. The Club of National Minorities, i.e. a larger number of members of the National Minorities Club, supports such a Act. I hope that he will either be withdrawn or that in the second reading he will really consider it to be one model equal for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69543	Thank you very much. It's time to report a ten-minute hearing. Representative Vesna Škrare Ozbolt. She's gone. He's losing his word. Representative Miroslav Korenika. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69544	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague. I'm going to make this a lot shorter because there's a lot of things that's already been said. In fact, if the Law reads as it says in the proposal, the Law on Essential Accidents, then it should actually cover all those who should apply the rights under this Act, or who have damages from an elemental accident, however, if we look at Article 2 as defined by the individual holders of this Act, then, looking under paragraph 5, who are the insurance companies that are entitled to aid in insurance costs, it is said that these are all those not covered by the state support model. Therefore, all those using incentives in production, capital investments, rural development, income support are listed. So, it is the largest number of those that appear as agricultural producers and indeed can then be used this term which has already been used several times to refer to those who are out of hobby dealing with production, who have a small vineyard in their cottage or orchard or in their houses, gardens, gardens, etc. Therefore, it is said that Articles 3 and 4 will be defined as a elemental disaster, then it also refers to something beyond agriculture, so from stormy, hurricane winds, from floods, etc. other assets not only of agricultural production can be suffered, so it is said elsewhere that they will be compensated and decided by the Government and it will be paid out of the budget, it has done so far, and these interventions have actually been the fastest and they were the most effective because they were short-term, while the one relating to agricultural production is actually waiting for the end of production to be able to determine how many such disasters have been carried out, and then 7, 8 months to do so through the Government and the Parliament and to come to the benefit of such incentives. Article 7 refers to these two measures, hence the provision of assistance to natural persons in part of the insurance costs of current agricultural production and finished products and other measures as aid for partial recovery of the damage to agricultural cultures which cannot be secured from the operation of natural disasters. Actually, as far as I know, there are no cultures that can't be secured. It may not be due to a small area or so, but mostly not all causes resulting in damage are provided. So maybe a little bit of insurance should be seen and a little bit of a different definition. In fact, it seems to me that the most real issue, especially in local and regional self-government, is going to have this article 10. Indeed, I read that it says that the ministry will participate with 40% in costs, so it is the government's obligation, i.e. the Ministry of Finance, but in the same way the county is defined, so it will also participate with 20% and cities and municipalities will participate with 20%. And now there's one exception for local self-government. So only for municipalities and cities with weaker fiscal power will the Ministry of Finance pay, or the state budget will pay. Indeed, it should say or have a criterion, but in the law itself, that this is not regulated by sublegal acts, which means weaker fiscal power, which is the level. We really have a community that when it settles costs to preschool children, so it's going to spin and some fixed liabilities that they spend 70, 80% of their budget. The problem, of course, is that we have such municipalities, that they are so depreciated that they have no economic power to do the jobs that the law has given them in the first place. In Article 11(3), too, they speak when the insurance company will ensure the right to State aid, says when they pay them the related part of the insurance costs determined by the policy, so when they pay their share of 20%, then they acquire the right to State aid, so 80% more needs to be paid. There's really a question right now about how the insurance guy's gonna handle it, if you only paid one fifth, and someone else's gonna pay for it for you. It may not be a problem if it only deals with Croatia's insurance which is today and still the only insurance provider in terms of agricultural production. These are quite risky insurance and in fact other insurance houses didn't want to get mixed up in such insurance, they prefer to ensure where their profits are higher. So, there are a lot of concerns, which means that this law should be passed for one small segment of actually potential users who at some point will suffer damage from an elemental accident and I tend to all those who say that this should be fully resolved, especially by that law that segment relating to most of the major producers in agriculture and that this is done in one place whether it will then be when it comes to this problem the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Agriculture should be decided.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69545	Thank you. Honorable representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69546	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Here, I'll make sure to cut my debate to the smallest possible measure, given the time we've spent here in the assembly today. In the policy of developing agriculture, I think it must play a crucial role. The development of agriculture is actually not possible without the active role of the state. That it is also an example of the European Union subsidising agricultural production with more than 100 billion euros. Global climate change has led to the fact that elemental disasters are no longer rare in our space but are regularly repeated. The exception became a rule. Depending on the annual period, droughts, floods and other natural disasters that can completely destroy agricultural production are changed. Unless she's secured the problem is so much bigger. Recent examples of shiftiness and nature power in Brod-Posavina and Varazdin County where large damages have been assessed and 20 million kunas will be needed for their recovery, as well as a sign that county budgets are not able to resolve the damages themselves, but that there is certainly a need for considerable assistance from the central state. The funds that the state has allocated over the past years to help eliminate the consequences of various natural disasters mainly for agricultural damage have unfortunately been lost by the time it reaches a specific user. So something planned in Zagreb could not be implemented in local self-government units properly. Therefore, the objective of this law should ultimately be to ensure the stability of agricultural production and to reduce the costs of reporting the damage caused. The novelty passed by this law is to help agricultural economies cover insurance policy. The assessment of the necessary means to implement this law provides that no additional funding from the state budget is required to implement this law. However, there is a question of what it will be if it amounts to damage that the state should subsidise beyond the intended appropriations. It is good for the state to take measures to encourage farmers to increase the insurance of agricultural production but the question is whether county and municipal budgets will be able to bear new burdens or whether the necessary means to implement this law are possible at all. Soon in this House, we will discuss amendments and additions to the Law on Units of Local and Regional Self-Government or to areas of county, cities and municipalities, and this law is also one of the signals that shows how much the desire for its own unit of local self-government is often greater than the justification and real possibilities for the functioning of these units. I do not see further any real reason why the power to appoint the State Commission for the assessment of damages from natural disasters would be transferred from the Parliament to the Government and the explanation that this reduces the time from making the proposals to making the decision really does not hold water. The only possible consequence of this provision would be a greater possibility of manipulation. It should also be more precise to determine which cultures cannot be provided as well as who and how they are determined. Article 5 does not specify exactly who the potential beneficiaries of state aid are and since there are no precise criteria for who has the right to help cannot be predicted in advance even by the number of users I consider important for the assessment of the funds that will have to be provided for the implementation of this law. It is not meant for poor municipalities that cannot provide funds or for the necessary activities, and this law will oblige them to cover the cost of paying insurance policy up to 20% of the policy regardless of what is said that the funds will provide the state budget I am not convinced of. Therefore, units of local self-government whose budgets cannot bear the existence of such costs and their share in ensuring agricultural production should be transferred to the country in a fixed manner. This bill could serve to address another problem of Croatian agriculture, which is too fragmented land property. By adding additional criteria to Article 5, the country would further influence the direction it wants to develop agriculture to increase the competitiveness of Croatian agriculture in relation to the countries of the European Union, but of course this depends on the long-term development strategy of agriculture in Croatia. So, do we want to model small family economies or do we want to develop 21st century agriculture by respecting the legality of land concentration in this economic activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69547	Thank you. Final review by Finance Minister Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69548	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the debate. We'll consider all the remarks, the inconceivables until the second reading and perhaps some of them solved. But what I would like to say is European legislation does not recognise support in such general laws. Supports must be regulated by lex specialis law, which is the Act on aid in agriculture and forestry. And unfortunately, here today, all the time, that part of the farmer wanted to put into this law, which, unfortunately, we can't do because he was regulated by the Support Act. I would ask that when we talk about another reading, then we discuss this part and that certain misunderstandings that may not be a clear clarification in the law are corrected and in the second reading we pass a quality law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-04-0.u69549	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. We will continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with the proposal to amend and supplement the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 and the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget. Proposal for a Law on elemental disasters. I am voting on the proposed conclusion: "The proposal for a Law on elemental disasters is accepted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 76 votes for, 1 abstention, 15 against the proposed conclusion.
