ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74676	Thank you very much. Mr. President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. When it comes to information and information, I don't think there's any need to elaborate in that theoretical sense what information is, or access to information means for a democratic society. I think we'll all agree that the right to access information is the foundation of democracy. Because if there is no control in a democratic society and there is no information, and there is no control if there is no information, it is actually difficult to talk about democracy. What this law is really talking about is it's about trying to respond to the trends that appear in the world today, which is that under different alibis, excuses, global society tends to, because of national security, which because of some other broad security that I call it, is actually getting more and more closed. However, the border is always set, i.e. the border is set, the question is, where is this border where some information should be protected for national security, and where is that right when someone has a need for that information and that it should be obtained. Croatia has made certain steps on the plan. For three years now, we have a law on the right to access information. It's to call it another young law that has certain problems, but it has shown all its justification. However, at the SDP club, we were of the opinion that a step further should be taken, i.e. when it comes to the right to access information, it would be logical that there is actually an independent body, an independent institution that will make decisions and so to say, to judge who has, when there is a right to what information. That such a law is necessary also shows the bill that we received a few months ago in the Parliament, which is about the Privacy Act. Fortunately, that law was withdrawn from the procedure. Let me remind you. In fact, this law provides for a very broad scope for declaring what is confidential to what is secret and state secret, and in this law it was said, among other things, that the head of a part of the administration can decide for the sake of the need for a service that is confidential. I think that space, that possibility, is inadmissible. But if there is such a need, then the logic of the thing is that there is some kind of institute, or an independent institution, that can actually be judged in an independent place. The committees discussed this subject had different proposals and different opinions. The basic thesis that came from the parliamentary majority and the government was that we did not need this institution, because we actually have this Law on the right to access information, and we also have the Central State Office that actually exercises that supervision and that meets all the requirements. However, I would like to remind you that the state office is actually part of the state government, the state administration, and that this is about the need to introduce an independent institute. A story that goes in the direction that we also don't need such an institute because the number of requests for information is dropping, I don't think it stands. Because we should actually be concerned if our citizens are less interested in getting certain information. I suggest and perhaps you should consider doing one analysis of the quality of the answers that citizens are getting, so there may actually be some other answers as to why there is a decline in the information requirements. What's also very important. When it comes to public authorities, there are thousands of them. I don't believe that only one central office dealing with everything it does can still arrive well and adequately follow this issue. But I said it's not an emphasis on it. It's about independence. So this law, it's simple law. He's no big wetlands. Similar institutions have most Western European countries. Perhaps this proposal most resembles the Slovenian and German models. So there is something perhaps picturesque that I would say in the rank or status of the Ombudsman elected by this Assembly on the proposal of the President of the State in order to ensure the independence of this institution and normally its mandate would not coincide with the mandate of the Parliament but should be five, not four years. The remarks that were already taking place in these discussions that preceded this plenary debate were also in terms of some technical shortcomings in the sense that, for example, the diapazon of professions, titles, the expertise of those who might do so should be specifically expanded. I mean all the comments of such a type if this law passes the first reading, I hope it will pass, the Proposer has no reason not to adopt them. However, the argument heard also from the parliamentary majority on several occasions, which is that, among other things, we do not need such an institution because the state administration will increase and this would further burden the state budget. I don't think that in this time of the general awakening of the rank and administration actually stands because if the officials in all the ministries are taken daily, the units of local self-government, so if you want to be here in the Parliament, I don't see that the problem should be a few people who should be working together with that commissioner, because there's actually one thing that needs to be taken care of, and that's that the quality of democracy in this way will bring him down to costing or not, I don't know, a million or half a million kunas at year level more or less, that it's unsertainable. Maybe we should think first of all about some reorganisations and rationalizations in the state administration, because I believe that we will all agree that there is a big space actually for solving and saving in this sense and the argument that was made during the debate. So I end up in a way to point out, it's an independent institute that should take care of the fulfillment of public interest, one that should be met by public authorities. The Institute is neither new nor our wetlands, it has been in the legislative and each other for a long time, so to speak the practice of the good part of European countries. So I think it is our duty to make it easier for citizens to work together and to solve their problems more easily or to have access to information in order to achieve information in order to achieve their personal interests. So, in addition to this general level in the matter of raising the quality of democracy, we have this purely pragmatic situation because we often face the problem of not being able to get some information that is important to them in order to achieve some of their concrete life interests. After all, few that the MP does not have here, and if he had not won or been at least once, met with the citizens talking to the problem. Here, I believe this brief explanation will be enough to discuss and I believe that most MPs will support this proposal in the first reading, and I say we will be open as promoters for all constructive and good proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74677	Thank you. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. President of the Committee, Honored Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74678	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Very short, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 66th session held on 5 October 2006 the proposal for a law on the Commissioner for Information submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by SDP's Club of Representatives by act of 7 June 2006. The Committee discussed the draft law on the basis of the competences set out in Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the debate, the Committee supported the view expressed in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that state authorities should be responsible for implementing the Law on the right to access information. But after the debate, the Committee proposed by a majority of votes, 4 votes in favour and 3 votes against, to the Croatian Parliament to reach a conclusion that did not accept the proposal for a law on the Commissioner for Information submitted by the SDP Representatives Club for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74679	Thank you. The Committee on Information, Information and Media? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ Representatives, respected Jagoda representative Maja Martincevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74680	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will not accept this Proposal for a Law on Commissioner for Information for several reasons. In part, the promoter, Mr. Lucin, presented them in his presentation, knowing what was being discussed on the committees. I'll briefly try to sum it up. First of all, we are thinking of the Croatian Democratic Community club on the awakening of the administration as well as the costs. A million more or less may not mean much to the gentleman of the opposition, but we believe that what stops everywhere in Europe can be stopped, and this government is working to reduce the state administration, not as it is said to be. Furthermore, it should be said that the number of rights, so the number of requests for access to information, has been falling precisely lately, but not because citizens are giving up. Citizens do not give up, we see this from different initiatives, but simply access to information in the last period is becoming better and evidence is that the Central Office of the State Administration in 2005 received 4000 499 requests from the public authority in the Republic of Croatia for access to information with 182 requests and 3 rejected from that number. The figures speak for themselves, mathematics is very accurate and therefore we can say that this approach to the exercise of rights is very well balanced. Furthermore, there were speeches on the Committee that in fact such a single body, or commissioner, should also in some way be controlled by ministries that allegedly keep information secret. That's not true. I will only tell you the information from my portfolio, so from the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Croatia, for example, that of our tumultuous Law on theatres that were on the website of the Ministry of Culture in the first reading, it was available to everyone, the citizens interested could communicate along the way, public debates were conducted, nothing was kept secret, and so it was mostly in other ministries. And in the end, we are not sure that such a law on the Commissioner for Information would prevail over one opinion, perhaps even the thesis that it would be one control at the expense of the big brother. So it's not the big brother's way. We simply believe that this type of control is not necessary since this government and the Central State Administration Office are working well enough and working, not secreting information and citizens are satisfied with it. And in the end, I'd just like to say one more thing about the literacy of this bill. Namely, you can't trust the information to be a body. It's simply not grammatical or meaningful. Right, the commissioner is a person, and the institution is a possible body, so the proposings could take a little care of grammar in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74681	Thank you. HSP club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74682	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I will say right away, we at the Croatian party club are not satisfied with the state of the right to access information from Croatian citizens. It is constitutional law, see Article 46. The constitution that says: "Everyone has the right to send representations and complaints, to make proposals to state and other public bodies and to get an answer." So that's Article 46. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, but unfortunately we have a situation quite reverse despite the fact that we have the Law on the right to access information that the rule that public bodies act on the principle of silence is gold. Let's say, in a specific case, the Chief Commissioner in this regard, the proposal is the Central State Office for the State Administration, and we at the HSP Club have four, five requests to the Central State Office, we have not received an answer. How, then, does he implement this part of the Law on the right to access information when he does not answer himself? We have addressed countless requests to various ministries, a number of ministries are also acting on the principle of silence is gold. Therefore, we cannot be satisfied with the situation in this area and a significant number of Croatian citizens also address us for the fact that public authorities, meaning central government bodies or municipalities and cities are silent, do not meet the requirements, that we do not talk about situations relating to administrative procedures when these legal deadlines are prescribed or that there are no requirements for how this is imposed on the ZUP or other specific laws. And now we are in a situation that certainly no one in Croatia is satisfied with this situation in the area of the rights of Croatian citizens to access information. Now we at the Croatian party club are wondering, we support this proposal and this debate in the Croatian Parliament, but we are wondering if we will succeed in establishing a new, new body, new institutions to solve this problem? We won't. Let's not kid ourselves. The problem is deeper, the problem is that public authorities do not comply with the laws. We've got an attorney general, we've got other attorneys. We've seen that the attorney general in many situations is powerless. In fact, he even has the right to give orders, but we've had a lot of situations that haven't even been handled by the arraignment attorney. So we're not going to solve the problem of access to information if we just introduce a new body, one part is likely to get better, but the situation is not going to be as required by Article 46. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia that we expect is probably here, as Croatian citizens expect. Let's say I personally have been asking Minister Primorac for a few days when will you block the central school account in Zagreb, which due to various activities do not have a general possibility of paying for electricity and other situations? There's no answer. 11th high school, there are many in Zagreb such schools. There are secondary schools in areas throughout Croatia. So here's a concrete example of how the right to access information is denied. So we need to agree that we need to make a decisive step, which is sanctioning employees, body leaders of public authorities to achieve the part that finally works this, this right to access information to Croatian citizens. With the establishment itself, we will solve the saying of a small part of the problem, but this will continue to weigh part of the problem, and in terms of that, I think it would be the main issue in the debate on the principle of rule of law, because this is also part of the rule of law, which is one of the fundamental rights according to the contemporary settings of modern democracy that all have the right to access to information. So with the rule of law, and rule is the right if it's Article 46. The constitution said that citizens have this right, and those answers are not received either by us as parliamentary representatives, and we don't even get an answer to parliamentary questions in time. Here we can see exactly, I have five parliamentary questions, I didn't get an answer even though the deadlines are over. So let’s make an account, let’s think about another reading, so we support the law in the first reading. Is it possible that we're going to try to unite into one body all of them and the attorney general and all these attorneys and various other institutions because we're coming at the end of that Perkins system, and here's the problem, and how we're solving it? We're building a body and we think we've solved it. When someone asks us what you've done? Well, we started the body. But that body still fits into such a system, it develops its bureaucracy, its administration and again forgets what Max Weber best described how and how red tape suppresses ordinary citizens and how in fact they can never accomplish anything or the case of Kafka in "Process" so when you see how it goes from tents to tents so it comes back again and eventually happens this. It is true that most Croatian citizens give up, give up because they see that they cannot get a fundamental right to get an answer from those for whom they finance by paying taxes. Therefore, this is a far-reaching problem, and it also talks about functioning, about the failure of both central government and local authorities and everything else. For example, in the city of Zagreb, there are countless questions that I and my colleagues gave about the city's headship, there is never an answer. There's never an answer. I don't think we can settle for this fact that we have institutions, that we have law. We do. But it's a dead letter on paper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74683	Thank you. For the SDP club, respected representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74684	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The SDP club invites all MPs regardless of which party they came from to support this bill. Why? Well, because this isn't the law of this or that political option. This is a law that needs to help the citizens. That's why he's written, that's why he's let go of the procedure. It is completely irrelevant to the political option to support this law, to second reading, and to adopt it in second reading. First of all, this is no invention in Croatia or in the SDP. These bodies exist throughout the democratic world. So if the whole democratic world needs them, who have democracy and longer times and more developed than Croatia has, then we see no reason why such a body would not exist in Croatia. Unless it is explicitly refused that such a body does not exist, unless it is explicitly required that citizens be deprived of one of their civil rights. This right to access information has existed in Croatia only 3 years since the law exists. Before that, there was not so much care in Croatia that citizens had the right to know. They have the right to receive information from the public authorities in such a way that they do not even have to explain why they need this information. Public authorities must act transparently, act openly, be available to the public. There, the government and the prime minister called for a sharp fight against corruption. There is no better way to fight corruption than the openness of public authorities. So when a citizen doubts something, whether his suspicion has been justified or unwarranted, he must have the right to address the public authorities and get answers from them. Now. What if the citizen does not receive that answer or what if that answer is not an answer but is a formal reference to a letter in which nothing is answered? Often even parliamentary deputies, as counterpart Pero Kovacevic pointed out, do not get answers to their questions. Recently, I referred to Minister Kirin a parliamentary question, which is why no sublegal acts have been passed and should have been adopted in a domain of the Ministry of the Interior or the police on the provision of evidence. When the police show up, that witness team collects evidence, and we don't have a rule on how these evidence is stored, the warehouse, there's no bags, and that's not how it's described. There's no sublaw. Police officers warned Minister Kirina a year ago that there was a lack of the sublaw, warned him that he had to do his job, make sure that the sublaw was passed. He didn't do anything. Meanwhile, there was an accident in the ice tunnel, I don't know how many dead people were treated with evidence with extreme negligence. They're not exclusive vehicles, that tachograph was found in the dump, so it's destroyed, so it's not destroyed, so there's no idea what's going on with it. I referred to Minister Kira's question, why didn't he bring in any sublegal acts? And these cops who warned him about it have demoted. He made them look funny. And now I asked him why he did it? In response to the parliamentary question, he describes the accident in the ice tunnel. It's just amazing. Now. When the public authorities treat the MPs that way, I'm going to ask him a question again, I'm going to ask him in public here if it's not written. Maybe the press will ask him that question. But when they treat MPs like that and what can we expect them to treat citizens? Now, how can that be avoided? So it can be avoided in the way it is avoided around the world that there is an independent body. An independent body of a commissioner who will exercise his authority and precisely because he is independent of the government to oversee it, control how public authorities fulfil their legal obligation. That the Commissioner wouldn't be the body we could hear here is notsens. Well, there's a public defender. He's the same body. Therefore, it is no argument against this law. It often also happens that the public authorities themselves, without a legal stand, therefore deny citizens information or fail to fulfil their legal obligations which are precisely defined in the law. For example, the ministries should be on their web. The pages, and that's how the law says to publish drafts of the law. Here we heard here, the Ministry of Culture published a draft law on theater when he was in the works. I went online before I went to the pay phone. The government's side, and in all the ministries in a row, there's not a single draft legal proposal right now on the web. Why is that necessary now? Why did that even get into the law? Well, it came into the law so the citizens could conduct one let's say a public debate on legal proposals before they come to the government. That would otherwise be useful to the government because you could hear what people from the profession, those whose draft law concerns, what they think of that bill. They'd help the government, the ministries to make the laws look better. Why isn't it done in the ministries? And I don't know why it's not working. I doubt it's a bad thing, not that they want to do it. But if there was a Commissioner, then you'd warn them. Then the commissioner would come here to the Parliament, file some kind of report, and the ministry wouldn't do it even though it's a duty to do it, and then the prime minister would hear it and reprove the minister, and I guess that would be straightened out in 15 days. This isn't how it's gonna work out, it's never gonna work out. Why? Well, there's no pressure to make it right. There's no one to control it. Here's the thing, when's the occasion? When a legal text like this is found in a legal procedure to warn us about it. So is that directed against someone now? Well, it's not against anyone. So is it directed against the government? It's not against the government either. So we say the government would help. So why do we still object to such a legal proposal, we don't know. Well, here's the real reason we can't figure it out. We can't figure it out, we don't get it. Who is overseeing the implementation of this Law on the right to access information? Central State Administration Office. Well, I know if it's an independent body. It's not. The head of this office is appointed by the Government. And what we can expect now is that someone will oversee how the government is doing who is appointed by that government. Please, well, the Prime Minister, the current prime minister, had a ruling from the Administrative Court because the journalist "Radio 101" sued the court for disobeying this law. She was looking for information the government didn't deliver. Of course, she filed a complaint, objecting to a second-degree body. That second-degree body is the same one who refused to give that information. What she could have done but start a administrative dispute. And that administrative dispute won. And the Administrative Court has ordered the Prime Minister to deliver that information. So what do we need as a country? This or that prime minister, this, the future, it doesn't matter. If citizens must, through the Administrative Court and the verdict must wait two years, three years, perhaps longer, what is the meaning of the existence of the Law on the right to access information. What did the journalist have from that information she received from the court verdict after three years? It's a law play. Then the law isn't even necessary. If the prime minister, if the government won't stick to him, they're waiting for court rulings to eventually comply with the provisions of the law, then what's the law to do? And now it's proposed to strengthen this law. In whose interest? Well, not in the interest of the SDP, in the interest of the citizens of this country, only in their interest. Then, you know, there's a rule that a lot of information is declared secret, and those that are and those that aren't because it's so simple. Write it down is a business secret, official secret, and then he got rid of worry. Well, now someone has to assess whether this information is really a protected data or not. Who's gonna do the job? Well, that commissioner would have to do that. That commissioner would have to tell someone, so you can't do that, so you can't now that information, the citizen wants to know, declare it a secret when it's no secret. Here's a citizen to deliver, 'cause if you don't, I'll put you in the Parliament's report and let the Parliament decide why you're acting like one. To avoid it, this law is proposed. Well, I don't understand what someone has against it, for what reasons. What are the reasons for this? There are reasons for this to mean the expansion of red tape. Oh, no, please. Well, only Minister Schuker hired more officials now in the INA than this body would have, in the INA and other state bodies. In the INA, even one for a foreign trade that didn't graduate from college but is said to have finished, it is a major feature. And what message do we now send to citizens, young people? Don't enroll in colleges, you'd rather join HDZ, so that's a much simpler way to work in INA. What happens when citizens, when students ask Minister Shucker if it's true or not, what does he say? If they had to answer such a question to the citizens and someone had to control whether or not he answered it, and someone would have to control whether what he said was meaningful or pointless, and whether he avoided the meaning and spirit of the law or obeyed that law. Therefore, this argument about the expansion of red tape is absolutely unacceptable. Citizens end up paying that red tape, they pay it with their taxes. Well, I guess that part of those taxes can also be used for the benefit of the citizens. I am convinced that citizens would not object to their tax money being spent to help them achieve one of their rights. Therefore, for all these reasons, the SDP Club asks all MPs to act in the interests of citizens, to ignore the fact that this legal proposal comes from the SDP, from the opposition club, to think and decide in the interest of citizens, to accept this legislative proposal. This Commissioner will be established. It will be established, if not now, after the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74685	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74686	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Stazic said this proposal is in the interest of all citizens, not SDP. That's not true. If that wasn't true, you showed your debate here, in fact you used this debate to criticise both one minister and another minister, and the prime minister, and you forgot that in an angry beggar especially in a cynical empty bag. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74687	For the club HSLS, respected representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74688	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I also think that this law should be unideological, non-partisan and that it really does not refer to any ideology or to any party and that indeed... that at the heart of the interest of this law is actually a citizen, the notion of a citizen and nothing more, so what Col. Stazic was saying is all that stands only in fact that the examples are actually at least a hundred years old, approximately when his colleague Kovacevic mentioned Kafka then in fact every time it shows that good literature anti-cipes one situation which with industrialization certainly necessarily leads to the emergence of red tape. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, actually, Kafka and... are actually writers who describe the new situation of a man who is right in front of this new force called bureaucracy, which is actually gray, faceless, impersonal, and in fact we're actually dealing with it for a hundred years, and then examples of one minister, another minister, one prime minister, third prime minister are actually examples that if we can honestly submit variation, mutation to any, any prime minister and minister before, before these latest events. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's cynical actually about Kafka is that at the end of the story, when the whole story goes by as I remember that doorman there saying, "Well, that was just your counter." That's what you've been walking for years, and that's really been waiting for you all your life. And that's always the way it is. You see, I also believe that the right to information is something fundamentally human, fundamentally human right and that a well-informed citizen is actually an assumption of one, a creation of one, a conjecture of a democratic society. Well-informed public, having access to the public is something I think no one in the Parliament will argue with. And it might be a good idea that some times these ideological differences that are normally in the parliamentary political life are normal so that this kind of bill is suspended because, despite some times or very often, I don't agree with my colleagues from the SDP, this time I see this law positively as a fact that needs to be arranged by an area that has started to be regulated and certainly things don't go well overnight. And with that we must be, and ultimately always someone really in the Assembly could say when a man is a style, there will always be those who will actually avoid doing what is usually done to businessmen, statutes, municipalities, cities, counties, government prescribed. Surely we are all in such situations and even as advocates. Here I could set an example. I'm a councilman of the City Council. I asked the other day to deliver the record, one record and one decision, and then I was told that this one, that someone is defending me from delivering it. Be careful, the thing that's elemental. With which you will not know about, the next session will begin with the adoption of that minutes. That decision must be published in the Official Messenger. No, you're having trouble getting it because someone doesn't like giving it to you. It's actually a situation I have to admit that it's really just like this Kafkanian situation and it shows in fact that we have this political life penetrating in those areas where there's really no place. And that's really one thing, to put it this way, an uncomfortable feeling that you can then ask yourself and how an ordinary citizen, an ordinary mortal, is conditionally said, thank God I don't think, no difference can be made when such problems have parliamentary representatives, councillors that can't actually come up with ordinary information. What's cynical in this story is that some deadlines run out to you if you want to complain, some decision to question, then you have to have, and the deadlines are not that big, and I don't know the record or it's not written or I don't know the decision can't be delivered. It just shows that you have a right to something, but you can't realize your right to do it, as God would command. I in this House probably, if I may speak this way and privately, but also on behalf of the Club, I point out exactly insisting on the autonomy of institutions. I'm just always giving that example of why Jelicin failed, and why did this Spanish woman succeed after Frank? While Jelicin thought that resolving economic reforms would solve all the problems in society had shown itself if there was not one system of institutions, their autonomy to go to hell, and the Spanish were much smarter. They realized that they really had to work first on their institutions that then became assumptions about economic reforms. And it is, and it is, but if we are in favour of independence, the autonomy of institutions must also be advocated for autonomy and the right of citizens to the institution. You know again that, that something not, that something doesn't, that we give it too much meaning, that we actually forget about that little thing in that big thing that Hegel made the perfect, perfect world and there was no place for a man in that world. It's that totalitarian spirit that is, in fact, from this philosophy of his is evident. So we, too, are not advocating ourselves as Liberals for the autonomy of institutions, in fact, forgetting another little thing that is also important, which is, and so is that man and his relationship and his right to communicate with the institution. So I would also appeal right here, I think this law is really not me experiencing it, I don't view it as ideological or as party but just as necessary. That's why the same remark from fellow Stazic. That's exactly what he said about the prime minister, about this or that, or that, he could have put any prime minister, any minister, because that story about the bureaucratic world hasn't been since yesterday. Of course there's more or less, but we also have to be honest that we're not all, so are we, and then, and sometimes in the past, they come together in the previous one... They were waiting for answers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Are fellow Churchmen, as much as, you know, I don't see why you're angry and you don't admit it? They're not that, they're not that I'm going to say they're intended to. It's, it's from the sense of the system that it comes out. That a citizen is always in some way in an inferior position and that, whether something was a little better or a little worse it actually doesn't, I want to help you and you actually want to show that it was an unconflict, great period in which there was no problem. So let's not fool ourselves. Well, it's as if they weren't the same thing as political appointments and appointments of people who aren't exactly when they're about expertise and competence every time they're going to be critical. But it's not, it's just the same justifiable object, but it doesn't mean, it doesn't mean that you didn't want to work and I don't know otherwise and better and so on. That's why I say every unideological, non-partisan bill should be supported. He should be allowed to enter another reading and face it on our own that we have not always been great and yes, that each time can be better. I also have a little skepticism about whether inflation commissioners will solve all problems like, we've really been lately, in the last few years we've had these attorneys who are in the story. The situation doesn't change if the whole one doesn't change, if you're just looking, you'll just never solve the segment if you don't touch the structure. And the structure very often remains intact, and then you're trying to change the situation with palitative solutions that every time, I say which is in the least of its literary nature and which is just talking about this existential situation of a modern man where bureaucracy is one of its fundamental, fundamental problems and that circle's square can't be solved. That's why, on behalf of the HSLS Club, I'm going to support that this law goes, this bill goes into second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74689	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by the esteemed representative of the Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74690	counterparts and colleagues, Mr Kramaric argued that there is this problem with informing citizens everywhere in every government for every prime minister in any situation. That's not true. Such generalisation is least suited to someone who is considered liberally oriented. It is simply specific cases, concrete citizens, specific queries and the situation should never be generalised. So I'm correcting that the problems around this are always the same, and now, of course, it can only result in objectively difficult things being done.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74691	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Vice-President of the House, Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74692	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Let me first refer to the fundamental question in my discussion. The fundamental question is that, under our Constitution, our citizens have the right to ask a question, to seek answers and, more importantly, to get answers or information about issues of interest, from their interest. It should be said that we have passed the relevant laws on access to information that regulates this area and that this is one of the most modern laws in this area, including the wider part of Europe. It should also be said that there are laws that protect the confidentiality of data and protect personal data. In a situation like this, it actually happens in some things that are very interesting to see. I wouldn't be as benevolent as my colleague Stazic when he says it's probably because of ignorance, failure, etc. It's not just that. Unfortunately, it is also about the fact that, knowingly, they are trying to conceal themselves or delay giving information to citizens by individual bodies. What's the problem? The first problem is that information services should be formed in all our public bodies. For them to have catalogues of information, that they should make certain data available, in accordance with the provisions of the law. The list of public bodies should then be resolved, not only by the authorities, but also by bodies or organisations which have public authority, which are obliged to provide citizens with certain information. Unfortunately, it varies from case to case all the time, so actually, one consistent list doesn't exist. And in this respect, citizens don't really know what to do. In particular, if it adds laws that protect the privacy of data and laws that protect personal data, then the question is actually raised when there is a public interest that such data must also be delivered to the citizen, or not only to the citizen, but also to the public media, so if you want to to any other state body or body with public authority. And such a situation would certainly have to be measured by someone who would evaluate and say then there is a public interest and who, in accordance with the law, would especially explain and address such a situation. Of course, there are no such bodies in the Republic of Croatia. And for that reason, it was proposed this law on the Commissioner for Information that should actually be doing that part of the job. And what's particularly important, we need some things that are as present as the failures, and we need to actually resolve the anomalies. And it was hard to get rid of them because there wasn't a body like this. One of these anomalies is, among other things, that when not providing information to a citizen, or I don't know the media, a body that didn't provide information is acting on the appeal of one who complains about such a situation, so it's up to him to decide for himself. Of course, the result is that it ends up in a administrative court that is once again overloading with which things are difficult. In such a situation, there are very serious problems that really need to be demystified, resolved. Why is this important? You know, the information is saying some power. But it's actually an instrument of carrying knowledge of the state we're in. And it is very important for citizens and other entities to act in a democratic climate, or democratic processes, and of course it is related to the exercise of their rights, thus strengthening the rule of law and the legal system. And in such a segment, it is absolutely certain that all costs that will arise in terms of functioning, setting up above all and establishing a public defender for information, possibly if we decide to pass a law like this, then these costs are actually costs, and in their essence they are costs that should ensure that all other costs are reduced. Because if this instrument of social relations works, then a whole set of costs resulting from the spending of funds, from the spending of time, from the spending of energy or from the failure to exercise rights or obligations to state bodies or in communication with others will actually be reduced. That it is best to show the situation that is related to the situation in the area of our associations. Because I can't solve some of these questions that should be solved by nature. If the administration, public authorities and public authorities on the one hand and the administrative organisations on the other hand are a service of citizens and if they act that way, then citizens should not be organised into special interest associations to exercise certain rights and exert pressure. Unfortunately, they have to, and therefore still in Croatia, 15 years since the introduction of multi-party and multi-party democracy has increased the number of associations that are formed and are growing from bottom to bottom, in fact, to try to create a body's pandemic in relation to state bodies and public authorities, and public authorities, i.e. public authorities, that is, to actually try to achieve their rights, interests for their members and their citizens. Therefore, it should be pointed out precisely that this law tries to bring all three previous laws, therefore the Law on Laws and Information, and the Law on the Protection of Personal Data and the Code on Secret Information, in line with this law. Then, the way in which public authorities work should be coordinated where they could no longer voluntarily deny citizens information, or more precisely, when they discreetly decide to deny that a citizen could complain to a lawyer who would then have to and should have the right not only to talk to the body of the state government but also possibly make a different decision. It is also necessary to form that independent body which should be judged by the public interest when it comes to the protection of any personal data, or whether it is the protection of classified information, whether it is done in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act, the Constitution and all others, or whether it is the result of a discretionary assessment and evaluation. We believe that this law should also remove the existing paradoxical situation which, as they act by appeal or on the basis of an appeal, is actually left to the same body that denied the information. It's a really paradoxical situation. These things need to be resolved. And because of all these things, we think it would be good to let this law into another reading in order to possibly until the second reading on the basis of the existing debate and the debates in the Assembly to complete it and build it, if necessary. And to practically pass such a law because it's in the interest of all of us. In particular, someone mentioned in the debate so far that there are, of course, the Attorney General's office and that they should be doing that part of the job. Our attorney general's office is overloaded, overloaded by the problems of our citizens and the rights and interests they need to protect. And in that segment, unfortunately, they can't achieve the protection of all the other rights for which they've been established, let alone the right to information. And the last thing you'd like to say in particular. You know, we keep talking about citizen rights to get information, but what about the right to protect citizens from misinformation that brings damage to the citizen, to him and his interests and often his family. Well, you see, and that's what this attorney for information needs to do, and that part needs to be protected and done, because information and damage can be done to a citizen, and it's very difficult for both his family and for such a situation we must certainly work on very important and quality things. Last night, who had the opportunity to watch "Open" show had the opportunity to see a whole series of documents that by nature things were actually one of the forms of information tools that were being challenged on both sides depending on who was defending who. Now, the question is, in fact, which information rights on the basis of which a citizen is required to protect his right and his own interest or the state body to protect his right and his own interest. We have to definitely get in a position to deal with it, otherwise every time it ends up in courts that are getting more and more burdensome. The social community's costs are going to be bigger and bigger, and in fact, a whole series of things we could have warned and prevented from happening. And the last thing I'd like to say. This question is actually a matter of protecting the rights of man and citizen, and that is why it is very important to refer to him. We contribute to strengthening human rights and freedoms in the Republic of Croatia and we open up space not only to strengthen these rights and freedoms but also to open a space for strengthening the legal system as well as for such and stability, in fact, relations in the Republic of Croatia and the fight against all forms of the rule of law and democratic order in the Republic of Croatia from bribery and corruption, so if you want other forms of abuse of rights and powers related to the exercise of certain duties. That is why I support the proposal of this law and, of course, I urge all of us to support this law to go to another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74693	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of the Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74694	Mr. Vice President. Mr Arlovic, you are talking about the costs of this function and the possible savings even claiming there will be no great cost. That's a good question because it looks like the cost problem for the Commissioners for Information. The only reasonable argument is why someone would be against it. It is obvious that access to information is a problem for the number one in the functioning of democracy, it is obvious that every citizen has the right to ask a question, but does not get answers. It's obvious that this problem in us is very big. Obviously, there is practice in the world with a commissioner like this. What can then be too much of an argument that we are against this commissioner who is only at the level of the state and who allows me as a citizen to answer within 15 days or if I do not get an excuse, not an answer, that the Commissioner then works for me as a citizen in terms of the information he is asking for. I don't see what could be the reason we're against it except for those costs. Mr. Arlovich, if it's a problem of costs, of raising the administration, then I have a proposal. Let's put on Jelačić a pay-price for the Commissioner for Information, and as long as the citizens fill up that starch, we'll have that commissioner so we can see if we have him, whether people think he should or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74695	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74696	I do not think that a starch should be put up to fill and contribute to the financing of the work of the Commissioners for Information, because in my presentation I said very precisely that if this body is set up and it works to ensure that the rights, obligations and responsibilities of our citizens and state bodies in the functioning of the state government will be far greater savings in material resources in the ultimate line and effects that will achieve this than the cost of the work of that body itself. Thus, the argument here that this increases the administration and that this will increase the cost of funding based on the state budget does not actually stand because it ensures a faster and more efficient exercise of the rule of law and ultimately the establishment and resolution of an entire set of social relations that are actually slowed down by the lack of information and also by the behaviour of the body in relation to these information that they should have. Because of this, I think this is a contribution to achieving and strengthening the achievement of human rights and freedoms, strengthening and achieving the legal system of the Republic of Croatia and speeding up the achievement of social relations between the economy and the cultural and entertainment content in which people are located. That's why it's a fund-raiser, not a new expense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74697	Thank you. The word has the esteemed representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74698	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Representative of the Croatian Government, colleagues and fellow MPs. They say democracy is slow, inefficient, frustrating, but say there is no better system of democracy, even say it is one of the most expensive systems of government. But you know who pays for it? Well, that's what citizens pay for. All of this is paid by the citizens. Here, in the proposal for this law on the Commissioner for Access to Information, it is precisely that citizens can come to information uninterruptedly so that they can decide in a democratic procedure on valid information. And now we call on it to care about citizens' money, and when we deny them information or contract that we privatized "Sun-Hvar" that weighs safely for 20 budgets for the Commissioner for Information, then we don't worry about citizens what it costs them. When I, as a representative and many others here, asked to present to us a public private partnership contract under alleged signs, how the privatized "Suncan Hvar" was then said, and that is unconstitutional, that we can't get a contract of insight. I have this written response from the government. So the fundamental question is, does he have short information for the citizens? There is. Well, it says here that 182 times last year has been denied information to citizens or someone who's been looking for information, and now we're statistically saying it's nothing, but we don't know what the consequences behind 182 are for the right to information. Is that the amount of "Sun Hvar," "Telecoma" or something else? And there's something else I want to say. Unfortunately, the concept of the public authority body with the authorities of the state administration, local self-government, urban, municipal, etc. is being marred here. Which doesn't matter. So we, as representatives and as citizens, can ask the agencies to provide us with some information. And the citizen has the right to ask even citizens' associations to give him some information, because they do public work. Well, our National Security Assembly Committee isn't the body of the state administration, but as representatives, can't we ask them to give us some information that's important for our decision on how we vote. Isn't a government commissioner in some local self-government not a body of public authority? And he's an individual. Isn't the government's Commissioner in a position to deny information to citizens even to representatives of the representative body of the local unit. Well, we have fresh examples for that. We have an example that the Commissioner asked the Government for Slavonska Požega to resuscitate Slavonska Požega, Požega-Slavonska County for 70 million kuna, Commissioner of the Government. Was it not logical that the government and we also know from the commissioners why there was a burden on the county for 70 million kuna? Wasn't that the right of us and the citizens of that county? So I don't understand at all. If we want to build democratic standards in the Republic of Croatia to claim for one such institution that we have no money, it cannot be a reason at all if we build a democratic society. Speaking of the right to access information and the Commissioner, please let me ask you who gives, who qualify for the confidentiality of information under the Code on the Protection of Secret Information? Well, the bodies of the public authorities. It doesn't mean the bodies of the administration, but even an individual in some governing body, he gives it the first time, it's a secret business, public, state or other. And who can challenge that? So we also have cases that the bank even the authorities of the state administration, so the authorities of the state administration or some other authorities that are looking for some data say it's a bank secret, although it's a general interest. It's not about breaking the public or telling the public. Therefore, I really think this is a good bill for a general democratic matter in the Republic of Croatia. If someone sees it in a party way, then there really are more party democracies. Not multi-party, but more democracy for a particular party. It's just not possible. Democracy is one for all parties in the Republic of Croatia. Let's just look at these 182 examples in the last year that are, in which the right to information is denied. Isn't that enough information for the citizens' representative body to request information on each of these cases? So are the rights of citizens being exercised in this House? Is the rights of citizens protected in this House? Are democratic laws being passed in this House? Do we have to check who, on behalf of those laws, stopped giving 182 times in the last year of the information that was sought? Well, we don't have the right to do that. So I think not that it is good to support this law to adopt or pass the first reading, but to ask it to come to a second reading as soon as possible after the course of public debate both in the Parliament and outside the Parliament. Citizens have the right to influence what this, that body should look like and who even in a certain way should control it, I think only the public, as much as I really think it is not disputed that it will pass the law into another reading and be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74699	Thank you. Replica, Your Honor... are you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74700	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Leco said 182 times was denied last year's information. But we must be aware that they were denied only, they were the ones who sought her out, who complained that they had been denied her. As far as it's at lower levels, local self-government, regional self-government, it's almost impossible to get some information. That's not what you're talking about. By refusing this law, colleague Leko, don't you think it's the government's fear and the current parliamentary majority of the public vote? Is this not the introduction and elegant justification that banks continue to rely on their banking secret to reject even the official bodies and also the State's Attorney's Office and also the courts to reveal who is and how he spent money from secret accounts, the money of Croatian taxpayers, which now everyone and the Government are naturally highly invited to. By refusing this law, it's the government's fear of the public. We can say what we want, but it's the government's fear, and it's being protected in part and at lower levels that information is not given. What are the reasons for that? Now, that already seems a much deeper question to me, and it seems to me that citizens need to take care of it because if we go back to what I said about banking secrets, when money is being estranged, because this is going to be the softest expression, Croatian taxpayers, and even those citizens of Croatia who are out there for guns and for everything else, it looks like everyone needs to put something under the rug, so let's move on. Fear, fear. We should not fear the public if we are clean and work for the benefit of the common good.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74701	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74702	Thank you very much. A respected colleague, of course we agree that the right to information is not only constitutional law but also human rights, so above the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, then I cannot agree again, I cannot agree that for parliament it is insignificant that 182 times last year the information was denied. That means we have to check for human rights violations in that 182 times. And that injury could mean a short amount of information worth several million kunas, a billion kunas. I even cited the example that the privatized "Sun-Hvar" and the very elegant vice-president of the government here say what you thought someone was going to invest without taking property. Without competition, without laws and no effects, then it really doesn't make sense not to speak or to say that he's an unnecessary commissioner for information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74703	Replica, the esteemed representative of Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74704	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, dear colleague. You're right, the most expensive is that democracy that doesn't work because two fundamental, or two fundamental, I would say the principles of modern democracy are the rule of law and the protection of human and personal rights, and the right to information is exactly right and now how we see it on examples. Now the other part of the rule of law needs to come. We have seen cases where they have been violated, so this is about violation of the law and constitutional law, Croatian citizens have the right to information and now we are going to rule of law. What was done there? Nothing. These 182 cases have been observed, but it is obvious that these situations must provide for far more rigorous sanctions, even more rigorous than what you have predicted in your bill and in terms of punishment, but not punishment for punishment, but punishments that prevent such or similar situations from happening in the future. For example, I have been asking for years for data from the State Audit, from the Government, all of which are privatised Croatian banks. There's no data. This is what I have the right to ask as each of you has the right to seek, and that is what we must seek on behalf of the voters because we represent them here in the Croatian Parliament. So we are not representing ourselves, we are not ambassadors of government or ambassadors of certain groups, lobbys, but representatives representing the interests of Croatian citizens. And how do we represent them when we realize that it doesn't work and nothing will be done? That's what the problem is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74705	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74706	Of course, counterpart Kovacevic, the democratic winged citizen has the right to know, and in short of that right to know, information was in Croatia 182 times last year. This is what we received in the official information, and all those who sought, and they did not get the likelihood that after today's debate, they would step up their demand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74707	Replica, the esteemed representative of the Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74708	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'm calling again because I want to insist on the next one. If this Assembly of Croatia rejects this proposal on the Commissioner for Information, then I insist that there is too much answer in this House why? There is no such answer so far, and all the working bodies and, by all accounts, the parliamentary majority rejects the proposal. The only thing I ask in the Croatian Parliament is why? So tell the men. That's one thing. Secondly, here you are talking about the depriving of the rights to 182 questions of colleagues, Leko. I think only one question was denied would be sufficient reason, and far more. I claim far more, even more than some citizens don't even ask anymore because they've lost hope that there's even a chance of getting an answer, because they get a possible excuse if they get an answer why they can't get an answer, etc. So if the only problem is there's red tape, it's five, six people watching out. Five, six people who, instead of us, would make sure that everyone gets an answer. If the problem is those five, six people are the cost of awakening bureaucracy I insist again that the starch on the Jelačić plot and we will see if the citizens are ready to finance this information commissioner and what will those who today in the Assembly have no answer at all why they are against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74709	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74710	A fellow Churchman, democracy can be celebrated only by those who know, who have information. Only they, and in the Croatian Assembly, are discussing the bodies of the state government, but don't be angry with someone to define what the body of the state government is in terms of providing information, so I will be satisfied, let alone give the citizens a list of who these bodies are and that they can ask for information from them. It's keeping and tightening from citizens of data that are important for deciding in the democratic system.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74711	Thank you. In accordance with Article 207(2), the time for the individual hearing has expired. The word has a respected representative Davorko Vidovic. He's giving up the debate. The word has the esteemed representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74712	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Representative of the Croatian Government. As counterpart Lucin already explained by the SDP's proposal to the Commissioner for Information said and stated the existing Law on the right to access information has certain shortcomings and irregularities which in some ways restrict the right to access information and therefore the SDP club decided to refer to the procedure of this bill, which I support, but not just for those reasons. A fundamental question that has already been raised during this debate is being raised whether we are satisfied with the situation of relations in this segment very important for the functioning of a democratic society such as the right to access information? From the numerous discussions we have already held here, for example colleagues Kovacevic, colleagues Stazic and other representatives who participated in the debate on practical examples, have indicated that the situation in this segment is an unsatisfactory and unsatisfactory approach and we have pointed to concrete examples, and that only when a citizen sets up a specific information from a body with public authority and at a local level if we cannot get that information. Here's a concrete example, I, as president of the Istrian County Assembly, have been waiting for an answer and some information from the Central State Office and it's been a year. No, a year, more than a year has passed, and now imagine if I were to complain about not getting the information I'd have to complain to? Under the current law, the head of that central body. Therefore, a sufficient reason with this 183, which is highlighted by hundreds and hundreds who are not pointed out to pass one such law, because this law is not a political law, is not a law of interest and to the benefit of any political option but a law on the interest of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We will agree that timely information is certainly an instrument of democratic havens to be respected and in some ways a democratic instrument of civil control of the government. According to international standards, public interest in publishing information always exists. If, in short, information would allow or conceal a breach of the Constitution, an international contract or a law committed by a public authority and may exist in cases of abuse of authorities or abuse of budgetary resources or the funds of institutions and other public funds, the health hazards or safety of individuals or groups and environmental hazards, and let us look at the situation in our society, and we will see how many obvious examples that are treated exactly contrary to these international standards. The Law on Access to Information also lacked a provision on the principle of proportionality to be applied in limiting or excluding the right to access information. In my view, any restriction on the right to access information must only be directed to the need for a restriction in order to protect another, stronger legitimate interest that explicits should be prescribed and in any other case, the right to the availability of information could not be denied. We've also talked about it, and it's completely illogical that in the existing law it exists, and that people's cadium applies and sues you, cadiya judges you. The law stipulates that against a public authority's decision, the applicant may declare the complaint to the head of the competent authority, which means that the head of the public authority... and simplifies the decision in the second degree. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also an indifference which would be in this way that we propose, not presupposing that the law cannot be completed until the second reading, but I think it is an obligation for all of us here in the Croatian Parliament to support this bill and to miss it in the second reading. The law on the Commissioner for Information, which we propose, removes largely the illogicality of the existing law. Our proposal is founded in a way that the institution of the PHP would certainly in this segment a very important segment of the right to access information obtain appropriate positive effects in accordance with the practice in the countries of Europe and with other democratic traditions. This law regulates issues relating to the realisation of the possibility of accessing information by public authorities, the establishment of services in bodies and public authorities which will then be obliged to respond to the requirements of citizens, preventing arbitrary depriving information from the public authority, the establishment of an independent and independent body that will monitor the implementation of the Law on the right to access to information and the Data Protection Act and the protection of personal data. A second-degree body shall be established to resolve complaints in the event that the right to access information is denied and control mechanisms shall be set up for all institutions which are obliged to provide information. The government’s arguments in the sense that public authorities exist and that they are acting are just unacceptable and from the debate that was conducted here it is unequivocally and established and the opinions of the Committee on Increased Costs and Advocacy of the Administration I think it is most vividly described by colleague Mato Churchvenac and that no specific comment is needed. And for including this brief intervention, I am convinced that colleagues from the HDZ Club will really understand and that they understand that this is not a political law, as it has been said. I don't pretend it's the best, it can't be done, but it's a bill in the first reading, and I expect us to miss it in the second reading and do it clearly until the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74713	Replica, the esteemed representative of Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74714	Well, there wouldn't be any other reason for a colleague of Peru to miss out on another reading and finally bring in the one you mentioned. And that's that you from the Central Office of State Administration are looking for information that you haven't received in a year. So the body laid down by law to monitor the compliance of this law, the law does not respect. And who can you turn to now, whom can you complain to? So Palaric doesn't give you an answer! Whom you can complain to, that same palaritch. So now I'm wondering, who's in the best interest of keeping this nakarad state? You know, until the beginning of this debate, I was kind of hoping that the parliamentary majority might not have carefully read the proposal. And that's why he refuses on boards, because I don't see any other reason for this bill to be rejected unless someone has read it carelessly or has not understood it. But after discussing the committees and after this debate at the Plenary session, insisting on rejecting this bill means only one thing. So you tell the citizens you won't! While we are in power, you will not have the right to information, you can have the law, but that's all you'll have! Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74715	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74716	Well, my colleague Stazic has just and absolutely confirmed what I said and in my debate, and it would really be just that enough argument to speak in favour of the necessity of passing one of these laws, and in this particular case, as president of the Istria County Assembly, I suffer criticism of the opposition because the request was an opposition to the ruling majority in the county assembly in terms of requests to declare the illegality of calling the first session of the constitutive session of the assembly and I, in some way, red in front of the opposition councils because I do not get an answer from that body of the state authority that is obliged to answer me and now what remains. Nothing but complaining about who? To the head of that same institution of public authority, i.e. the state authorities, and I think that we have given sufficient arguments about the necessity of missing this law into a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74717	Thank you. Dear Representative Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74718	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I have to say, anyway, is that I'm going to support this proposal of the Commissioner for Information Act, and since I speak for myself, I believe that my colleagues, too, will you, here and my colleagues will support it. And I hope that the majority of the Parliament will support it and I will support that hope with the research done by GONG and Transparency. GONG conducted a study on the application of the Law to access information by the public authorities from December 2005 to July 2006 and called the project public advocacy. Their wish was to verify the extent and extent of the quality of the law. GONG did one convenient thing, did not go as an organization, meaning as GONG but had their employees as persons and their close relatives, as individuals tried to get to certain information means in their own name and for their own account and they had within fifteen days on certain bodies of the public authorities submitted queries and waited for answers. And normally, after a certain period of time, they collected these results from December to July, and they reached certain conclusions, so let me read how it all went. A total of 102 applications were submitted and 57 requests were met with 55.82%. What does that mean? This means that the general conclusion that almost 50% of the public authorities were such that they denied access to information, or more specifically, the general conclusion is that almost 50% of the public authorities violated the law. In other cases, 42 complaints were filed that 41% and only 24 complaints were resolved within the legal period while 18 cases still needed to be rushed. And now to read what the deadline was to answer. The shortest deadline was two days and the longest deadline was 120 days for them to get the information. On average, it was 24 days to get information. And now they've reduced their research to certain conclusions why this law isn't being implemented, so here's to reading what they've set out as the biggest problems. "The bodies of the public authority do not respect the prescribed deadlines for providing information. There is no information officer for most bodies. Some bodies listed by the public authorities have not established or have not started work at all. Contact details of individual public authorities are not available to citizens. Some public authorities are not considered to be such even though they are listed for 2005 and 2006. The bodies of the public authority do not respect the legal obligation to forward requests to the body which they know to possess the requested information." All of this is saying that we need the Commissioner for Information. And now, there's one difference between the research done by GONG and the research done by Transparency. Transparency performed as an institution, and their results are much better. In their case, the bodies of the public authorities were in 70% of the cases. So only 30% didn't respond. And secondly, 62% of the public authorities responded within the legal deadline. This means that citizens are, in any case, in any case, in a difficult situation when they are trying to get any information. They're powerless in front of public authorities. And that is why a commissioner like this would regardless of the price and regardless of these stories that it is expensive and that it represents a burden on the budget or I don't know what not, and this starch is a great idea to collect money for it, regardless of all the things that are said the need for a commissioner is enormous because citizens are helpless and citizens have the right to know. However, speaking of law enforcement and talking about how laws are implemented with us is not the only law on which we should have a commissioner. When we look around, questions arise as to how many Commissioners we should have, how many laws are not implemented with us. Should each law have a commissioner, or at least for every group of laws, health, justice, and such a order of commissioners. The question arises if we don't have the commissioner then the attorney general, and maybe the lawyer should have each of us so he can be our guardian angel. Because the fact is that laws don't apply to us, laws don't enforce and if someone controls them. It controls this way as my colleague Stazic said, "When you're sued, Kadija judges you." One who needs to complain and one who doesn't spend time with him should complain. That's ridiculous. Gentlemen, let's take the first step and support this proposal of the Commissioner for Information Act because it is only the first step in this section that is very important for all citizens in Croatia because citizens cannot get the information from these surveys.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74719	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation of the esteemed representative Jagoda Majska-Martinčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74720	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague said that citizens are helpless. That's not true. Citizens are not helpless at all, and don't underestimate citizens. After all, they showed it in the elections, but ask them how they received information at the time of the term of office of the last government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74721	Thank you. Replica's esteemed representative, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74722	Thank you very much. I will support this bill. I'm actually sure he's going to go through another reading and the time between the first and second reading by the promoters, and you didn't mention it, and this law is going to be done in two, one segment, but with, I'm going to illustrate it with two examples. A few people have been asking me over the past year, says at our home addresses we get payments to pay voluntary contributions from different institutions, institutions and religious communities, and all would be fine if my unique birth number were not listed in the call. Where do the unique birth numbers come from to associations, organizations that collect charity and sign them up, print them out through computers and systems? Who gave it to them? And another example. Together we can testify almost every day, in television news shows the doctor says in front of the cameras: the patient was admitted in a difficult state. Head injuries, kidney injuries, liver injuries. What's this about? Who has the right to publicly state the health status of citizens? Publish the full name and last name, and also his photo and doctor talks about his health condition. So the aspect of citizens' helplessness is not only when they seek information but, like, when bodies and institutions abuse citizens' information and without its consent put it public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74723	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74724	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague of Lesar's right. And that only confirms that my finding that we should have a lot more commissioners and one of these should be the Commissioner for, which would worry about the implementation of the Personal Data Protection Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74725	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74726	You say you believe most in this House will accept this law. Well, he won't. You can tell from the debate that he won't. At first, I thought it might be because of a lack of understanding, a lack of understanding, but now we see that there is no political will to accept this law. Because look, if he were to accept himself and the commissioner was to establish himself, if he started to act, then I guess Prime Minister Sanader would have to present the account from Verona. Well, if not to anyone else then to that commissioner. And there won't be an account from Verona, six months of citizens looking for it. You're telling my colleague Kapraljevic that the citizens are powerless. They're not powerless with this law. They, they simply find themselves in a pointless situation. Why isn't the head of the Central Administration Office, Mr. Palaric, asking for that account from Verona when he's in charge of overseeing this law. Because he was named by this government, why would he ask the government for something? If this commissioner were set up, he was but then Minister Schuker would have to answer to someone why he hired five HDZs from Velika Gorica in public enterprises. Even without college. Well, that's not gonna happen. How come you don't see a colleague of Capralevich's? That's not gonna happen. That and that's the only reason why this law is being rejected.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74727	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74728	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You've said all this to your colleague. You're right. But I still believe that most of them will, at least based on the research conducted by "GONG" because what does it say? The general conclusion is that almost 50% of public authorities do not respect the Law on the right to access information. So precisely because such a conclusion is "GONG" research, then I expect that you gentlemen of the majority will simply support this proposal to improve this situation because this is not good for the citizens of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74729	Replica, the esteemed representative Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74730	My colleague Kapraljevic, I have carefully followed your presentation and presentation of other colleagues, and these data are interesting regarding "Transparency International" but each of us faces this problem daily. I was here a few days ago with a large group of citizens in the Old Mikanovites. They complained to me that their chief, their municipal leadership, was not giving them the information they were looking for. It's a serious situation, a very serious situation. Now they're in the process of correspondence with the ministries, how do we get that information? Namely, information is important not only because of that banal democratic procedure, because of citizens' interest in some data. Information is also a control mechanism. Is the government local, regional, state-fulfilling and working properly? Information is also a safeguard mechanism against corruption and crime. Information solves everything and puts everything in the right place. If we don't accept this proposal from our colleagues, this law will be passed. To try to solve this issue systematically in this way, who are we protecting? That's my question. Who are we protecting if we don't really want to start applying the law?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74731	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74732	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague of Doric you've noticed well, and I believe that's not only a problem in Slavonia, but the problem is also in all other parts of Croatia where there's a question in small areas where the issue moves towards public authorities and then most of our citizens are being moved from door to door and breaking the thresholds. And no one wants to tell them who's actually responsible for giving that information? And that's probably why there aren't so many of those demands because they just don't know who to ask, and in what way?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74733	Replica esteemed representative Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74734	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The poet said that "The poets are a wonder in the world" and you are Mr. Kapraljevic obviously a poet because you are amazed at this situation. You don't have to be surprised at that situation. The situation did not arise by chance, nor did it grow that way over time. This is a deliberate situation. Where's the problem with this law? The problem is that the Law on the right to access information is not respected. When the law isn't respected, that's why someone has to answer. Who needs to answer? The one who doesn't respect the law. Who doesn't respect? Power. Who controls the implementation of this law? Central Administration Office. So power again. So what surprises you that nothing's going on about it? Didn't you send a lot of questions to the Central Office yourself that you received the answer the last day, and nothing in the answer came out of what you asked for?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74735	Replica, a respected representative of Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74736	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, and your esteemed colleague, Kapraljevic. Now let's simplify the situation. The right to access information is essentially the exercise of direct control of Croatian citizens over the functioning of authorities, both executive and other authorities. And there's the answer. Every government and outside, there's a problem out there, even though it's a far more successful percentage. Whether this represents the right to obtain information is direct control of the government. And every government normally avoids controlling it. Because every government has these indisputables because when such a situation occurs, the case of Hungary, anywhere else, or the case of these ministers who had to resign in Sweden because they didn't pay a TV subscription. It's those, these things where then this democracy that works then comes to the public. And then the government has nowhere else to go. Because the public then, along with the citizen, with the representative, forces the government to act or the government will be sanctioned punishably. So let's talk like that. The cause is that. The government escapes, the authorities flee to give the full truth because if they give the full truth they must admit that they do not work legally. That's the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74737	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74738	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's colleague Pero, you're absolutely right. The government is running away from giving information. Run away for a simple reason, if that power doesn't work by law. But if she did it by law, there's no reason to run away from giving information. Then all the information would be available. I believe you can just check it out. Write a request to Varazdin County and if you don't hear from them then they probably denied you information. Try and let me know. But I would like my government to function as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74739	Don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, Replica, the esteemed representative of the Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74740	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. You listed here the results of GONG, namely Transparency International and others about 50% of the denied answers. It's about the citizens. But look, here today, more than 50% of the speakers on this topic in the Assembly as parliamentary representatives, the presidents of the County Assembly and others have not received answers. What, then, are citizens doing in such situations? And that's why the weight of this proposal to the Commissioner for Information Act. However, here I would warn my colleague Kapraljevic of something next. This is not just about the state and the problem with the state of information and the availability of information. It is also about how we continue to work in this regard. Allow me, the government was preparing and we got on the bench before summer a more restrictive approach to information for citizens than the current one. It was about categorizations that were more dangerous and allowed authorities to even more successful crows than any response. Now, that really means what Agent Kovacevic was talking about, that simply by refusing these approaches that allow access to information, he refuses control over himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74741	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74742	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It's true, fellow Churchman, when you noticed that we couldn't get information either, and how then the citizens. And I compared that to these two researches, and in these two researches where Transperency performed as a company. They got far more information than citizens as individuals. And that's why it's important to protect the citizens. Because the institutions are doing so, and the citizens can't manage at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74743	Replica, the esteemed representative Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74744	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm going to replicate to an esteemed colleague in a way or in a part where commenting on the application of the law on access to information is actually a cartoon matter, so the law doesn't apply, because in this segment, in this segment, and then we're going to appoint Commissioners, and then by that logic, so for every law that doesn't apply in this or that part of it, or in your opinion, then we need to appoint a commissioner or set up an institution that would be in a conflict situation to control the implementation of a certain law. It's exactly the absurdity in that part of your debate when you actually realized how much we as citizens should actually have a Commissioner. And someone here mentioned the writers did. It looks more like Orwell to me than Kafka, if in that sense we're going to paraphrase and compare some of the situations in society with certain works of literature. It's one thing, and the other, it's chasing things. So even here mentions the situation of the President of the County Assembly, so the president of the representative bodies who in one administrative procedure contests or does not dispute the legality of the establishment of certain assembly units of local self-government in relation to the application of this law. Well, that's two different things. This law protects a citizen in the sense that certain information comes. So should the president of the county assembly or a member of the county headship have every information commissioner in order to get some information, even this is not about information. So if we're going to caricate in that sense, then we can really caricate. So neither this government nor the argument is going to deny citizens information, but the form of Mr. Churchvenac to which you suggest even some kind of starch, very funny, is inappropriate in its own sense. So if you have concrete suggestions, write down a proposal to amend and supplement the law on the right to access information if so much in your opinion, let's say what you think.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74745	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74746	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Tomljanovic, if you have a cartoon look at what I read about how this law is not implemented. I didn't make it up, but it's a GONG find saying: "The public authorities don't respect the legal deadlines for providing information. There is no information officer for most bodies. Some bodies listed by the public authorities have not established or have not begun work. Contact..." and don't count any further. All this indicates that the law does not apply. GONG has investigated the application of this law. If I had research to enforce other laws, I would have read it to you, but it's not the subject of today's debate. Today we're talking about the Law of Access to Information. And that you attribute to me that I want someone stalking, controlling, bigbrothering citizens isn't true. I just want someone to protect the citizens and their rights prescribed by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74747	On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74748	Thank you very much. Well, I thank all my colleagues and colleagues for the debate. I must be honest that I expected there to be more support for this law. But I am still pleased with one fact, which is that more or less all parties discussed and members of these parties supported the law, except for the majority party. In fact, he's already talking about one move. What actually fascinates is this. That the vast majority of MPs who discussed this point and under this law found that they themselves were denied the right to information. By law and by the Constitution there is no state official secret, there is no document in which the representative of this House has no right of insight. The greatest military, the state's secret, the representative of this House has insight into it. Unfortunately, the MPs of this House have problems with the simple answers of their daily lives, regardless of whether it is of any interest to them or whether they have been referred to by citizens for help. Now, you see, if it's not for the citizens, then it would be wise for this kind of law to be passed for our own sakes to fulfill their function. I agree with those who said that information is power. Indeed today's information is power. And I understand and can understand why someone is in the interest of giving up parts of their power, because if a greater circle of public or general public has insight into more information then power is not concentrated, then if power is concentrated somewhere and if the public has insight into that information then that power is in a certain way and controlled. There's a wide range of questions here actually why not a law like this. I think it's absurd to talk about this law costing. A law that would solve an institution that would benefit the citizens, as I told our representatives. In fact, this institution should remove the narrow throat of the Central State Office, because the biggest problem actually lies there. Several MPs here said they didn't get an answer from the Central State Office. Well, my people don't have to give out new money, I guess the Central State Office has some clerks and people working on this job, so we can just transfer them with different positioning and different powers. In fact, maybe we could even save some money. I think it's unserious to say that this law is going to cost when I think that in the last three years, it's what the state, which is the local administration, so I'm not going to go too far, here I'm going to be modest, growing by at least 10,000 people. At least. So now we're talking about 6-7 new people who are supposed to be in service 24 hours a day for 30 days per month to citizens, I think it's at least non-serious. What was repeated here on several occasions, and many of the MPs who discussed it wondered why the government, or parliamentary majority, did not want this law to pass. You know, I can even understand that this may belong to that area of relations between the legislative and executive authorities where the different interests of the legislative and executive authorities are so I can understand the government's position that it does not want us and the citizens to have an independent body that will allow us to get some information, but I do not understand that the representatives in the Croatian Parliament elected by these citizens do not support this law. I stress, the essence of this law is nothing more than the introduction of an independent institution that will not be dependent on the government, neither on the parliamentary majority nor on the parliamentary minority, which will actually control the right to access information that citizens have constitutionally, democratically and any other right. So the key question is why the government is not in the interest, why is it not in the interest for this law to pass. Why did the government actually go with that confidentiality law that the fellow Churchman was now talking about, because he's actually predicting further closure of the government. Maybe it's because the government isn't responsible for the public knowing what she's doing or what her bodies are doing. Maybe the government isn't responding because the election's coming up. I don't know, it's my calculations, because you can't tell me the argument that it's going to cost something and we don't really need one of these institutions. There was talk that this was not in the interest of either this or that political party. Wrong. I argue that this is in the interest of every political party that is oriented democratically, which is open to the development of the democracy of civil society and everything that carries the development of these institutions. And what's very important is that this was another opportunity. As long as you won't agree to it, or you will, all of it, this is still a European law. This is another opportunity we are missing to take on this poverty of legislative activity in this House a proactive role and to come up with one bill of law that I would have assured you, the support of all those international institutions that are actually dealing with issues and public issues. Remember, most of all, that I do not say by fingertips in the near and distant history of international institutions that Croatia has just received about the public, about transparency and if you want the position of the media. Here's the end of it. I'd like to thank all the MPs. It is obvious now that this law will not pass into another reading, but it will pass into another reading for sure another time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74749	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74750	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague, Lucin. It's not true that the government wants to shut down the information. Well, it's not in the government's best interest. Today there's no information that can't be hidden, so it's better normal for the government to present it than someone else. But you imagine a commissioner like the children imagine a babu-horn, who will be above the government, who will tell the government what to do, what to say, and first of all the service to you, and I don't think that's gonna be the case. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74751	The word has a distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74752	During the war, I never used the extra Croatian symbols, the symbols of the Croatian even the cross that I wore, or the crown around my neck, I held under my shirt. I didn't need to because what I was during the war was my whole life. If someone did, I'll tell you why I started my speech on this subject. If someone listened to your side separately and didn't know what it was and didn't know what country and what state they lived in, then they would really ask the question of what kind of information and information darkness this people live in. And what exactly is this about? You have brought in one bill here in which you stated the following in your assessment of the situation, so pay attention to me at this time, i.e. the Croatian State, that is, Croatian citizens have the right to access information under the Law on the Right to Information. And you say, therefore, the Act of Access to Information, so that law exists, it is in force and passed three years ago. You say and you explain why you're fighting for this. The bodies of public authorities who are obliged to comply with the provisions of this law have not reached a sufficient degree of education. That's how you explain it. So let them reach. That's why we don't need another law and another institute. And let's do it to get there. You say that a large number of public authorities did not comply with the provisions of the law in the sense that they did not form an information service, information catalogues and made available data which were required to be published in accordance with the provisions of the law. So let's make them do it. And if it doesn't work well, well this service and if the public administration doesn't do what needs to be done, the government, let's do it in accordance with the existing law. Then, he says, it often happens that public authorities voluntarily and without a legal foothold deny citizens information that should be available in accordance with the law, etc. So what you're saying as a reason for the perceived situation and the problems, that's all solved. And it's up to all of us to handle it. And finally, this is one pearl, he says, there is no independent body that you could imagine assessing the public interest in publishing information that contains a code of secrecy in accordance with the provisions of the Data Protection Act. Therefore, we need an institution that will now tell us what is of public interest, which is not. So, regardless of the body that should be prescribed and become for itself, I suppose, important and powerful, etc. and give us all a lecture on what is of national interest, which is of interest to the rights of the person and the protection of the person himself, etc. In the discussion of fellow Mate Churchmen, he wonders why we don't accept this proposal. And I answer and that's the answer actually to HDZ, which is our club, because it would be another body bureaucratic, which no one can guarantee will work transparently and responsibly and will benefit. After all, your government, which you've run, has actually demonstrated top-notch how, in fact, all the information and those that cannot be, are available to everyone, so to the extent that it's absolutely unacceptable. Recently, I spoke to a lawyer from the Hague tribunal who told me literally this: When someone from other countries like Italy, the Netherlands, the United States then they know to what extent they're talking about this and that, and then they say no, not anymore because it's contrary to our country's interest or it's not in line with our interest. Well, you've demonstrated that there was actually no obstacle to any right to anyone or by any procedure to any document and law. Mr Kapraljevic wonders if we need a commissioner for this and that and then he himself claimed that there would actually be a lot of commissioners of this and that kind. And I'd like to tell you colleague Kapraljevic, then we'd also need a Commissioner for Protection from Commissioners and Commissioners of all these kinds. Therefore, we would need to entangle him in order to protect us from all these. So it's absolutely absurd. And I have to look back at my fellow Stazic, who usually makes fun of everything and everything, and that's why he represents the citizens with this proposal, and in fact this proposal is just a means for him to blame this government, not the goal of achieving a higher level of availability of information. Therefore, we find that unacceptable. Finally, fellow dear, try to derrogate and the Data Protection Act because according to this, according to your statements and what you said, that's not really necessary, then relativize the need for the secrecy of data at the personal and state level. It's absolutely unacceptable for us. We hold that the existing Law on the right to access information can regulate everything. And now I'm going back to the beginning of that exhibit that was a little weird. I have the impression that you have, or that you are living with the need for hypertrophy, the need for a better past, which was unfortunately also short of information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74753	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74754	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bagarić has taken a very nice and clear picture of what is essentially in this law, and I would add the following. Not only are these reasons that you cited but it seems that the SDP cares about introducing in some way a new big girl who will oversee the entire information picture in Croatia. He makes that clear. What's his role? He says he'll oversee the work of the Data Protection Agency. They will monitor and decide on solutions or complaints in another agency. So, you want to introduce a big brother who will be controlled by the agencies operating under the law, who have their own laws to which they refer. That's your intention. You want another big brownie, we've had big browns for 50 or 70 years, we've had enough of those big brothers of yours. Because indeed the time has matured to talk openly about the problem of law enforcement, we can talk about it. The problem is law enforcement. There are levels of public authorities that are just as you've noticed they're not well educated, so let's say I'll say an example from Dubrovnik-Neretva County. As councilman of the County Assembly, I've asked three questions I've never received an answer and I've even been told you'll never get them. It is a culture of those who have taken responsibility for the management of that county, among them are your party friends, so let's talk about it, why the law that is in force, why it does not apply and who actually avoids applying it. That's what this is about. Here you are now mixing pears and apples, talking about both the Parliament and the county congregations and the city councils and everything else. I think it's quite clear that the intention of introducing a supervision, supercontrol directed by the SDP, is here by Big Brothers who just aren't suitable for the time we live in. Those times are far behind us and I hope you never again... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74755	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74756	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Very short. I absolutely agree with my colleague Matesic. I would just add that I have the impression that no one can convince me that my colleagues did not go with this absurd law that they knew would be such, that as such the government would refuse and that we could not accept it, and then it would be an instrument for them, that is, an opportunity to actually come out with the needs to protect the public with the right to their information. Well, I mean really completely missed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74757	Replica, the esteemed representative of Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74758	Thank you very much. So if you ask me when I am personally holding and I think that in Croatia, democracy will mature in the right sense of the word, I think it will be the moment when the parliamentary majority says no for the first time. I don't know why you can't figure it out. This is obviously about a different concept of democracy. You're talking about Big Brothers, but we have a Big Brothers at Mark's square across the street. How can you not understand? I don't understand if you know what independence and an independent institution means. That's all it's really about. If you are afraid, you are afraid of independent institutions that will monitor those who need to provide information and whether they provide information, then it would be good and correct at least to say why you are afraid of it. I said why I think you're scared, but I assure you there's no reason to be afraid if you do everything by law and that's where your story ends and begins. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74759	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74760	My colleague Lucin, I really didn't say one word to Big Brothers, so you didn't actually tell me the whole thing, but you had no right to do it in the Rules of Procedure. But I must say, when you mention it, I don't even know the degree of democracy and democracy when one parliamentary majority rejects its government. I don't think that's ever... And the other thing to know is that we don't communicate with our government and we don't actually have a joint appearance on this? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, I believe that this is a good thing, I would really single out my opinion... But I really can't believe this is good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74761	Thank you. Replica, the distinguished representative of Jagoda Maja Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74762	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I will replicate my esteemed colleague, Bagaric, with one finding. You have touched on one very important issue of this topic and this Law, namely that the proposings, and all those who agree with the Proposer are actually looking for supermen, are looking for Commissioners, as Mr Kapraljevic said. So every segment of this society from the smallest to the greatest should have its own protection, its helmet. I don't know what they'd want with a law that has to protect us from what because we're all citizens. We all have the right to information under the law. Right? And I don't know why the opposition burns so much except in one case when it comes to attacking the government. The government of course does nothing good, the government rejects your perfect laws, and we are the ones who have to support the government in such a way that we never told her no. So when did SDP tell his government no? Remind us. I have to say that I'm quite old and I may have a bad memory, but there are young people with you, so may they remind us when the government of the SDP, so the government of the coalition in the past council, or when the MPs told their government no? It's absurds. So much for this respected fellow Europeans who are full of Europe's mouth, but not democracy, unfortunately for what this bill literally testifies. Indeed Orwelowski, indeed Orwelowski.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74763	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74764	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I fully agree with my colleague that this proposal is really a means of accounting for the government, and I do not know any goal, nor do I, which should be entitled to more information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74765	Replica, the esteemed representative of Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74766	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I see most of the replicas are heading towards me from the other side, and I know why, but there's one thing about it. I have to work with my colleagues because you've been looking at me and me, and I'm replicating.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74767	You can look at your colleague, that's allowed, but you can replicate the honourable representative Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74768	I'll be looking at my colleague and replicating my colleagues, Bagaric. When it comes to the Orwelov principle there, a minority controls most of them, and we ask that the minority does not control the majority. The exact opposite of that and you're after pears and apples and it's on the trail of what you said to me that I was looking for countless commissioners. That's what I'm asking, exactly, for this government that doesn't operate by law, and that's why I'm asking countless commissioners to enforce laws and that these commissioners then control what's not being implemented. It is also proof that this law is not being implemented because 50% of the citizens could not exercise their right under the law. And as for another bureaucratic body, you said one bureaucratic body which is a question of whether it will have a purpose and whether it will work at all and how it will work. Right, well, I'm afraid of that because all the bodies we've set up by countless agencies, I don't know what the office is, I don't know what you've been up to, and I'm also wondering what they're doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74769	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74770	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm not much of an expert on the Rules of Procedure, but you've broken the Rules of Procedure again, but I'm only going to answer this part that applies to me, and that's why we totally agree. You, me and you in this part, you said that it would be not the Commissioner for this, for that, etc. And now you're saying yourself that you're not sure that the body that you're proposing would be in office either. So here's the deal, and that's why I'm suggesting we don't start it because there's going to be one less democratic unit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74771	Well, let me say something about the Rules of Procedure. I've allowed a little width in the debate on replicas both on the one hand and on the other. So, don't call on any violations of the Rules of Procedure, then, we'll cut short or we won't enjoy these replicas under this bill. Replica, the esteemed representative of the Beatunach.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74772	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bagaric! I would point out one sentence with which, and even with your exposure that I support with it, I agree and support it. You said this law was unnecessary. I'd say not only is he unnecessary but he's harmful. It is harmful to discuss him here in the Croatian Parliament because we send a weak message to the Croatian public who complains that we often discuss laws that are not meaningful, which are unnecessary on one side. On the other hand he's harmful that he financially costs taxpayers, therefore it's a multiplication of bureaucracy, creating new costs and this is one proposal if we would accept him where I would, we as parliamentarians pass a weak law. This means that we tend to those thoughts, those political options that advocate red tape and administration as such. It's on one side. On the other hand, I think that in Croatia, otherwise, at any state level and at local level, there are quite enough commissions and this would only be the creation of one commission, or commissioner of the already existing commission. In any case, I think it is declassified, unfortunately, we have to discuss it, such is the Rules of Procedure, and it is our obligation to say as representatives an opinion about a weak law like this, but I'm surprised that a party that predicates to protect the interests of workers, etc., de facto takes money from those workers with such a bill. Here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74773	Thank you. This is a typical example of replica, although there is no instrument in the Rules of Procedure, but I commend you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74774	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74775	But, Mr. Vice President, here's what I expect you to thank me for producing so many replicas of this kind. So I agree with my colleague Bitunjec. I certainly believe it is unnecessary to waste so much time on one of these laws. But we had one whole hope of performances that actually increased, celebrated, and I don't know what didn't work out in favor of this big proposal, etc. Then we had to point out that it wasn't really like that. I'm really sorry to the audience that we took so much of their time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74776	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74777	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's this inspiring presentation by my colleague Bagaric, I noticed something that was very good that it was dealing with the information in the past government's mandate, that there was manipulation with him, and that information was being manipulated in such a way that they appeared, that they were disappearing, so they appeared through party commissioners and in private direction, so the secret documents provided to all those who had to prove that all of this was since '90. - January 3rd, 2000. But there it was, not exactly our will, so we're going to smooth it out for the people and show that we've always been the star of the leader of this neighboring people and forget everything that's been done in the name of that star. With the help of the Commissioner, I guess we should come up with all the data that you'll be able to adapt to the same needs again, so all over again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74778	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74779	I hope he doesn't get angry with his colleagues, who have proposed this law because we really do now what we would say, we've given him a lot of reasons why we're not for this law. I fully agree with you, and it is known that after democratic changes, the churches were full of believers, those who had not gone before. But that was also the goal of democratic change that people have the right to come to church. Therefore, we too allow the right of everyone in this assembly to fight for the right to information. By making it worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74780	Thank you. Replica, the distinguished representative Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74781	Thank you. A colleague of Bagaric's! You are a witness like the rest of us that countless times in this assembly have been said that laws are not being implemented in this country. And it's a fact that you can't avoid no matter how good the law is if you don't realize it won't give effect. As we've heard, this information law is not equally implemented. A colleague, Stazic, has rightfully advocated the right of the citizens of this country to be informed. I believe honestly, not the way you claim to rock the government. Does this mean that you think that our government is doing something that's going to make her sick if the citizens find out? I'm asking you, you're what you said. A fellow Stazic advocates the right to information from our citizens for one single reason to rock... [[Speaker not enabled]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74782	Come on, come on, come on, come on,
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74783	... To whom truth can harm except those who do not obey the law, who do not act morally and who do not work in the interest of all. [[Last-on speaker]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74784	Replica reply, distinguished representative Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74785	I thank my colleague for this replica, and I must answer. I don't think, I really don't think the government's going to get hit if the government finds out what they're doing because the government's working according to the law and doing a general public useful thing. If sometimes someone in the system doesn't know those who exercise power does something that shouldn't be done to make it known. I don't mind that, though. However, you mentioned in your replica the statement of your colleague, Stazic, who sincerely advocates. I do not doubt that your colleague's appearances are sincere but I have added that they are cynical and that they are not really the goal of citizens getting more information than they are the means of making fun of him how I don't know this minister, the government, and actually how to draw attention to the entire government as he works there, or I don't know an inadmissible thing that's absolutely not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74786	My colleague Bagariæ, I only answered the line because you spoke in your presentation about how the government worked. It's an important topic but completely irrelevant to this agenda point. You talked about how they testify about The Hague Croatian citizens. It's an important topic for our country's reputation but irrelevant to this agenda point. This agenda item refers to citizens and whether or not they come to the information they need for their personal use in order to control the municipal, county and state authorities and to have a quality protection mechanism against corruption and crime. I publicly declare here, reject the Commissioner, but just suggest another mechanism to achieve our goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74787	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74788	Thank you very much for this replica. I think it's really correct and that you actually have a goal, you want to achieve a goal in terms of this bill. So you're saying it's not relevant what I mentioned. Therefore, it is relevant that this proposal relativises the law in a certain way, derogating and the Law on the Protection of Privacy of Information and the Law on the Protection of Personal Data, which one and the other, only a little. No, you're orderly there stating... My colleague Kapraljevic rejects my opinion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But you're putting it to be the role of this commissioner to oversee, to actually form a public opinion which is of public interest and which is not. So, you were making a proposal. I suggest, I don't suggest, but it's the only way. We need time, we need honesty, we need honesty, we need learning. This country has gone through the war, and we cannot suddenly reach that level with which you and I would be pleased, but we are on that path and we will achieve it. Croatia is moving forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74789	Thank you. Here, I didn't commend you, but you got the "Bravo, Bagaric". State Secretary of the Central State Office Mr. Palaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74790	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! Well, the right to access information is one of the very important democratic institutes and although the law was passed for the former governments but nothing was done to implement it and a number of measures had to be taken to implement the law, to apply it and to report to this Croatian Parliament on its application. However, since the law was passed, the time in Croatia has changed, much has become available to the public, the databases are transparent, the public work of the state authorities is more transparent and the public's interest in this right to fall. It must be, I will always advocate that the right to maintain, advance, that the system be upgraded. Together with the Croatian Helsinki Committee, Transparency International Croatia and GONG, we have held workshops to educate civil servants who are engaged in the exercise of the right to access information in order to better apply this law. We've participated in all round tables, but you know then there's a variety of research that sometimes brings people into an awkward situation even though no intentions, especially political ones don't stand behind it. Here, on the last round table when it came to the organisation of Transparency International, about the exercise of the right to access information, and there was a study by which the president's office did not answer three questions, all three were not answered. And now the President of the Republic has been brought into an awkward situation, someone could impute that he is behind it. And that's probably what some clerk accidentally missed out on within the time frame. However, when we analyse the application of this law, we must be aware that there were 19 thousand requests in 2004 but that in 2005, there were only 4.5 thousand requests. It is obvious that the system has functioned, that citizens are satisfied with the amount of information and quality they receive through the web site, through a press conference and even investigative journalism, why not say so, but also with the practice established by the court so that this interest in this right is no longer the same as it was from the very beginning, and that is only proof that the transparency of the work of the public authority has been increased. The bodies have a variety of databases, people have been asking questions, asking questions. I can tell about my office. We put on the website information about many things and the automatic system gives information to citizens who are interested. They plug in on our website, read what they want from news to non-classified database data, and their interest is satisfied. All in all, the government believes that efforts should continue to be made in the education of particularly local officials and we will now be the Central State Office, our Academy of Local Democracy, together with scientific institutions, will strengthen education at local level to ensure that units of local self-government and units of local self-government fully implement this law but that does not mean that there is a need for the establishment of another body as would be the Commissioner for Information. We believe that the practice of the Administrative Court, that the practice of the bodies applying this law and the experience gained in its application, will be sufficient to guarantee that transparency of the work of the public authority continues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74791	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations, respected representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74792	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Palaric said the databases are transparent and accessible to the citizens. From my experience when I was V.D. We have sent you a request from the president as a committee, asking you to provide us with a list of names, names and addresses of the mayors, mayors and mayors. We didn't get that, but you sent a circle to all the county, the mayors and the mayors to contact us personally with their data. And we got a paper stunt like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74793	Second correction by the respected representative Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74794	I'd like to correct one of the wrong allegations, and I'd ask you to use your great public influence so that this allegation will no longer be repeated. You are talking about transparency international, the Croatian term is international transparency and I ask you to use this term in the future so that we have a Croatian version for this foreigner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74795	Dear Representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74796	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Palaric, it is not true that the President of the Republic is not responsible because a clerk from his office did not send an answer to the citizens. He is directly responsible, and the responsibility takes off when he changes and cancels such an official.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74797	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74798	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm correcting exactly two incorrect allegations of an esteemed secretary of state. The first thing he said was that the President of the Republic wasn't responsible. And who will be responsible? I want you here or I want you to be responsible for what his office doesn't do. Well, he's the President of the Republic. Other incorrect allegations, the bases are transparent and available. As an agent, I have four questions, they used to stand for two years, I didn't get an answer. What are we talking about?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74799	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74800	Your alleged State Secretary is incorrect that because the number of requests falls, there is no need for the establishment of an institution of commissioners. It doesn't stand in any kind of collage. Regardless of the number of requests, the first question is whether it is true that the number of requests falls because citizens are satisfied with the amount of information. This logical conclusion does not have to be true, namely the number of requests may fall because citizens are giving up because they do not receive answers. But all of a sudden, the Commissioner's institution has nothing to do with the amount of citizens' demands. The institution of the Commissioner is required to carry out the work that you are now doing as head of the State Administration Office, you are overseeing the implementation of this law. We have heard here in the debate that even your office does not respond to the demands of the citizens or even the functionor. Therefore, a body is needed to oversee you and a body is needed to oversee the government and it must be an independent body. That's the point... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74801	This is an additive that doesn't belong to the correction. Is the Proposer's representative asking for a final review? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a Law on the Commissioner for Information. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: no proposal for a Law on Commissioner for Information proposed by the SDP Representatives Club is adopted for the reasons set out in the Government's opinion to the reports of the working bodies. To vote. The result? With 70 votes in favour, 4 against and 17 abstentions, the proposed conclusion was accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74804	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This isn't news. We refer this bill to procedure for the second time. For the first time, it was solemnly rejected by reason that the government would actually systematically address the issue, that it was of course an important issue because it was the beginning of all election laws, but that the government would systematically process it and that it would come into the process. In the meantime, we're dating a variety of laws that talk about local leaders' choices, representatives of local (regional) self-government bodies, etc., and the government didn't do what she said they would do, so we sent the law once more into the process, maybe we're something calmer, smarter, and maybe we do things a new way. It's about what it's about. In order to be able to discuss in any systematic way ways, methods and philosophies of electoral laws in the country, it is necessary, above all, to determine which is the exact, clear and decoded one who chooses. To know who counts, how many people there are, that we don't have in some places, which is today a situation of more voters than citizens, that we don't have people on the diaspora list of voters, and then on the list of those inside, so whether it's a scam, it's not a fraud. The thing is proportionate in today's electronic age is relatively simple to edit, and we are proposing a mechanism. We're not alone who we think is the key to fair electoral laws. A similar opinion I heard in the OSCE, and other international bodies have indicated to us that the voter list problem should be resolved before we go into really open and democratic elections. What does the law offer? It offers primarily permanent and up-to-date automatic, so computer update and fill-in of the voters' list by borrowing state bodies such as home offices, police, etc. who, in some ways, get information about people when they were 18, when they died, when they moved away, when they came into citizenship and so on. Therefore, those bodies take the obligation to inform the central state body which controls the voters' lists by electronic means, first and foremost by means of paper, but by electronic means, first and foremost, so that this database made up of all voters in the Republic of Croatia is always up-to-date and always complete. The second thing we want to do is effectively control the list of voters who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia by comparing them with the list of voters who have a residence in the Republic of Croatia. If both lists are electronic and two databases are overlapped, you can see where the data has doubled and then that voter is deleted from one of these lists, of course. This would prevent the abuse of electoral rights through a double vote which, of course, took place, which we witnessed in almost all previous elections and would allow for a clear and unequivocal determination of the status of citizens who have the right to vote, where they have it and how they achieve it. Another thing that we talk a lot about in the towers, and in public there is little insight into the list of voters. A man has the right to come really to the election commission as he's already called in the local self-government unit and ask for insight for himself, whether I'm inside or whether I'm properly registered. Those who go to the political party's election, independent lists, and so on, have no right if they are not in power but to get to that list, that is, it is almost impossible if not completely impossible. We suggest that this information be made public in the same manner in electronic and written form, so a list of voters for a particular unit of local self-government or for the whole state depends on what it is, what it is. So that this information is public and that those who compete in the election can get it, for better elections, for better election campaigns, for a thousand and one reason you know very well. In this way, however, a higher degree of transparency would be achieved and manipulations would be disabled when one has that list and others do not have it. The log-in technique of the voters' lists has been elaborated in this proposal, I wouldn't bother you with that. We've taken a good part of the solution from the current laws, the ones that are good. We have, of course, updated them by introducing an electronic data obligation both on this plan and on the obligation to network these data. What we still consider important is that we propose the introduction of criminal provisions for all those involved in the procedure, from citizens who are double-logined and on the list of voters for the diaspora and on the list of voters reported here, to officials in the authority of the state administration who do not perform their job and the fact of the voter, change of status, death, turning 18 or any other change, the ministry is not delivered where it is due, i.e. in the central state authority responsible for these matters. We think that this is the basis and that now is the moment before we start discussing election laws, whether models will change in one way or another, before the local elections come to an end to this fundamental issue. When we do that, then we can think further about a model that can be like this, like this. If it's equally applied to everything then it's equally fair for everyone, if we have an honest basis, and this is an honest basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74805	Thank you. The rapporteur of the Committee, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, for local and regional (regional) self-government, a representative of the Government, State Secretary of the Central Office Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74806	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. It is true that the Law on Lists of Voters and that the neat lists of voters are one of the basis for a fair, fair conduct of elections in the Republic of Croatia. I must say responsibly, since the Central State Office for Management is a roof body for voters' lists, although lists have been selected by the offices of the state administration in the county and city offices of the City of Zagreb that there are no double entries in the Croatian list of voters, there is no. We have computer technology and no double single parent numbers. We run them by unique birth numbers and technology itself doesn't allow it. So no stories about any double entries abroad or in Croatia are based on facts. Secondly, it's not true that it's a list that's unreachable. He is available to everyone through the website he has, uses his unique home number, and on the day of the election, or a month before the election or the moment when the polling stations are set through SMS messages, anyone can check whether it is entered, where it is entered and where it is designated. So we provide excellent service to Croatian voters. That the state or government is hiding something with these lists of voters has no words. So far, all the political options have been in power, except for the HSP, and everyone was right about the central state government, the information the state is benefiting from. And it is well known to everyone who deals with this matter that before the voter lists are elected, they must also be concluded by municipal commissions elected by municipal, representative bodies, so from the people sitting there. There are various political options in power across Croatia, different people are in commissions and we have never questioned the Central State Office. Should I ask now who confirms it in Zagreb, Rijeka or anywhere around? No, we do, so I think. ... lists of professional service voters by law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] By law, it checks out, makes sure it's governed by the law, and that's all right. Of course, there have been past elections of abuse of the fact that in lists of voters outside the country, I am not talking about Croatia that this happened anywhere in Croatia at any of the several thousand polling stations be assured that it would be written in all newspapers. It happened outside the Republic of Croatia, that someone who died was circled as if they had voted. It wasn't a dead man who voted, but there was an abuse of power at the polling station, and I pointed out on several occasions that I was looking for the responsibility of those who did it. But from that fact, we can conclude that there was no irregularity in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. And that doesn't mean we don't have to solve the voters' lists. It is true that there are more voters in certain environments than residents. We spoke on several occasions about why it happened. I won't repeat it now, but there are certain categories of Croatian citizens who have registered their residence in a certain area, are not found in the census, but only because of this we cannot delete them from the list of voters as long as they are Croatian citizens and while they have a registered residence where they are. The government announced, the prime minister said that on the Round Table which was discussed a month ago about the financing of political parties that the next Round Table organised by the Central State Office with the OSCE will be on the list of voters. We have made a new law, it has already been given to the authorities of the state and in less than a month will be called a conference, a round table at which you will all be invited and which will also settle this issue in the most democratic way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74807	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative, Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74808	Mr. President, the Honorable Representative of the State's Office. It is not true that you sought responsibility for the abuse of electoral rights. If you were looking for it, you would have informed us what the consequences are because you yourself said that, that you are the roof state body responsible for the list of voters. And that's the only thing that's true. You're the roof state body responsible for the list of voters wherever that list is because it's about state elections. Whether it is done in Canada, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Hungary is responsible for that list of voters.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74809	And distinguished representative Marin Jurjevic, the next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74810	Thank you. Well, it's not exactly the quote of Mr. Secretary of State that there were no irregularities in Croatia. There was no, here in Split you had cases of a man coming in at 7, 19 less 10 or 10 to 19 voting and being rounded up already. Those cases were real, I think, and it can't be said that there were no irregularities. There were them. There were them, and you know it well.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74811	I'm opening a debate. The club of representatives of the HNS, the respected representative of Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74812	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues on the basis of an introductory explanation of the government that Mr. Palaric delivered today on behalf of the Government, but also on the basis of the government's written opinion on this proposal for a law, the Law on the List of Voters, which was adopted in 1992, does not need to be amended. Or bring a new one. I'm not so sure about that. The same text of our bill was rejected by a large majority on 1 April 2005. I made a joke at the time, so I said it was probably a first- April joke. That we reject this bill, but with a reminder that that was when the Parliament held the debate and the vote without having the government's opinion. At that time, the government was not manifest and did not give an opinion on this bill and we still held a debate and voted. What does the government think of this Law on September 1st of this year? The government thinks the Parliament discussed our bill on 1 April 2005 and rejected this text as identical to that. Point. Is there one single reason why this Law does not adopt it but release it into another reading? Is there one reason? Does it exist by the content of the proposed text? Are there arguments why, after 1992, when we passed this Law in the Assembly, there should be no changes or additions or new ones, and I always advocate new laws because it is difficult to amend that law from 1992 because, from then on, much has changed in Croatia, and especially because of the introduction of information equipment, the creation of a common system that allows us to implement these provisions that we are proposing here. After all, how many times have we, Croatia, been told that this law must also endure certain changes. In how many towns and municipalities in Croatia are the number of towns and municipalities in Croatia whose lists of voters include more people, more voters than residents? He's got a fixed number. Mr. Palaric said, "There is a fixed number." How many are there? How many voters are included in the voter list more than those municipalities and cities have? Why did this happen, and how are we going to change that? Why are we putting this bill back in the process? Why now? Why again? I would like to remind you that parliamentary elections are going on at the end of 2007. We are constantly defending the principle, the approach that everything regarding the elections must be adopted in Parliament at least one year before the elections are held so that all participants of the election, and those who go to the elections as candidates and voters, know the rules of the game. A year ago. There is no provision that it must be so in this law. But if we are responsible for voters and citizens, then we will give them all the rules of the game, all the changes and newspapers we introduce for the electoral system a year earlier than those elections. In early 2009, there were presidential elections. In May 2009, local elections where citizens will also be elected by representative bodies, I hope also municipal chiefs, mayors and mayors directly. Certain proposals under this Act also require a different approach to the system and to the development of the system. So the Office of State Administration, the offices of the state administration in the counties and embassies, the diplomatic and consular representations of Croatia abroad must give us enough time to prepare technical, financial and personnel so that they can spend it at the end of next year. We need to adopt it in this year and to see if the State budget for next year needs to provide some funding for this modern system of voter lists to be financed from the State budget. That's why we're repeating our proposal right now, not claiming to be the most brilliant. The best or the only one they can. But we want Parliament to discuss this issue because we will debate and vote in the electoral laws for local self-government. Why wait until before the elections themselves we make changes and later we realize that because of the late passing of the law we couldn't carry it out until the end. Another reason is the following: electoral procedure, quality elections are not only guaranteed by election laws. In the way in which electoral rights are exercised, in enabling and exercising electoral rights, in enabling sound control of whether the electoral rights are used in accordance with the law also depends on the Law on residence or residence, conditions and ways of obtaining residence and residence, resulting in both voting law and registration in the voter's list. And the Law on Citizenship and the Law on the List of Voters and the Law on the State Election Commission. Let me remind you, we passed the law, we had competitions and we couldn't choose the State Election Commission. We've been waiting a few months for the National Election Commission to be elected. And then finally comes the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, the Parliament, the representative bodies of the local and local self-government leaders. It's a set of laws that must be completed at least a year before the election. And for us there will be an addition of the Law on dwelling and dwelling. I hope that the government did not give up on those changes that were in Parliament, which were not adopted unfortunately, so it never appeared again, and the reasons for the government's proposal to change that law were really standing and it seemed to me at that moment that we had reached an agreement to adopt it, never came back again, and the reasons for the problems that we had in the previous elections were just a part of them, not all, but a part of them that came out of the House. We've set seven goals in law. First, to settle voter lists is permanent and automatically wherever possible. Secondly, effective control of the list of voters, especially those who do not have residence, we come to the Law on residence, on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Third, disabling the abuse of electoral rights. Fourthly, to enable clear and unequivocally determining the status of citizens who have the right to vote. Fifthly, the right to gain insight into the voter list and which the secretary of state was not manifested, the right to receive a list of voters, participants in the election. In all countries in the European Union, any party to the election whether it is an independent candidate, an independent list and a party, has the right not to gain insight, but to get a list of voters for the area for which the elections are being held. And what's the problem is the list of candidates for president of the state couldn't win. Or a party. Or an independent candidate. Well, he's in control and he's got that right. That's one news we're proposing. I don't believe that's the only reason the government doesn't think this law should be passed. Or it's such a secret document that nobody really has a right to it and that having a voters list right now would endanger the democratic procedure of the election. Ensuring a greater degree of transparency of elections and preventing manipulation and entering a higher degree of discipline in all proceedings of all parties to the election, in all proceedings of all participants, because they have their obligations, discipline and responsibility on the one hand and those participating in the elections as candidates and voters and bodies to conduct the elections. The responsibility of all must be, predictable, prescribed, with the sanctioning of infringements of those rules. Sooner or later, we're gonna have to modify this law. I just want to remind you at what point and time. The election will be at the end of next year, regular, or we will be working all summer to modify the complete set of electoral legislation and practical laws to be ready for these elections. And I remind you, that even in this part of the legislation, in adaptation to Europeans which are not my words, it was precisely at the moment or stage of screening that we were told that we had to work on that part. I listened to Mr. Palaric recently when he said the Central Office of the State Administration plans to organise public debates on this topic in due course. The voters' list law. And that it will be the subject of debate and with the county community, the alliance of municipalities and cities. If so, is it not right and good, is it not also useful for Croatia to have this draft law after the first reading also be the subject of debate and that people who participate in these discussions have different approaches, different proposals to eventually come to a common solution and that these important laws be made by general agreement in Parliament itself. Every election in Croatia, but every one, at all levels and even these local and extraordinary tails suspect. Because there are always cases where a double vote is proved and proven, leaving out the voters' list, enrolling or non-listing, and always leaving the grains of doubt in the regularity of the election which do not need to have a major impact on the final outcome of the election. And what do you think, and you all agree that the voter's response in Croatia is too little and that we are one of the responsible not to do so, whether each of these grains of doubt after all elections does not affect that fewer voters in Croatia go to elections or that this is not one of the reasons why people stay home instead of going to elections. So if that's the case, let's not let after each election have a theme when the dead march. And it always happens to us that dead people march to polling and polling stations, and we always deal with it a few weeks after the election. One of the laws that we offer to our authority in time and we give it to this one. I want to believe that regardless of the first time the government has not given an opinion, and now there are no substantive objections, look at the government's opinion, there is no objection to the content of the law. None. You won't be wrong if you accept the proposal and let it go to another reading. The government isn't against content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74813	Thank you. PGS Club, SBH, MDS, Honorable Representative Željko Pavlic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74814	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Here, let me, on behalf of the Primorje-Gorskian Alliance, the Slavon-Baranja Croatian Party and the Međimurje Democratic Union, refer to the bill on voter signatures. We will therefore support this law as we have supported when it was and for the first time referred to the parliamentary procedure. We also believe that it is very necessary for Croatia, that after the Law on the State Election Commission, therefore the law passed here in the Assembly, but unfortunately this election commission does not always work today, this law should therefore be one of the key ones which should ensure that all future elections here in the Republic of Croatia take place in a fairer and more transparent manner. I think it's very important because what citizens primarily want among other things when they go to elections to make sure that the voice they give to someone is going to end up in the right place, i.e. that there will be no manipulation of the votes, their voices, and especially the votes that sometimes appear in the election process. We also agree that as soon as possible we need to resolve it, i.e. regulate the institutes of residence and residence in the Republic of Croatia in order to clear up certain misunderstandings as well. So the election is ahead of us, and we think now is the deadline, the time to get rid of this law, so everything that tells us about the voters' lists. And what does that mean? Therefore, voters' lists must be updated, must be accurate, must be available to check qualified voters and electoral candidates with a legitimate reason for access. It is necessary to introduce a procedure to ensure the appropriate entry of voters who have been released from the list, whose data have been incorrectly entered or who has completed the legal period for enrolment after... list. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Procedures must also be introduced to object to the existence and call for the removal of entries for lists of persons who have died, are minors or otherwise do not have the right to vote. So this is what I quote the opinion of certain professional circles that I agree with and which I think this proposed law will achieve the goal we would set. Such an existing situation as it is now causes a lot of problems, many open questions are being raised that we haven't yet answered. One of these questions is actually how many citizens of the Republic of Croatia have the right to vote? According to the State Election Commission, the right to vote in the Republic of Croatia has 4 million 403 thousand persons, of which 400 thousand are abroad and slightly more than 4 million in Croatia. However, according to the State Statistics Office in Croatia, a total of 4 million 437 thousand people live in Croatia, of which 990,000 are younger than 18 years. According to the National Bureau of Statistics, the right to vote in Croatia has 3 million 447 thousand persons or 556 thousand less than the Commission's data. So this data needs to be harmonised because there's a possibility that this difference can be manipulated. What does that mean in practice? It has already been mentioned here that there are places where the number of voters is higher than the number of inhabitants, so here they can give an example of Imotsky where, according to the last census of 2001, there were 33 thousand 313 inhabitants in the entire area of the Imot region. That same year, in 2001, 28 thousand 683 voters were registered in the polling lists. This election year, however, is thought to be 2005, so this is the data for those presidential elections. So, in 2005, in those same lists of voters, 31 thousand 108 voters were recorded, which means that in just three years, the number of eligible voters increased by 2 thousand 315. A similar example is in Vrgorec. Namely, Vrgorac with its 7 thousand 228 inhabitants has 6 thousand 846 voters, so the simple calculation shows that under 18 is only 382. We therefore think that there must be much to be done because such a disproportionate suspicion is that the voter lists are outdated, unscheduled, and therefore a polygon for manipulation with ballots, such as the use of the voice of the dead, evicted and the like. The reference is therefore to be made to the update, i.e. to the unscheduled list. The same year, the citizens of the same year had major objections where we witnessed problems with voter lists and received numerous tips. Some of the citizens are still not in the list of voters, some were not included in the list even though they submitted the requested confirmation in time, and some of the deceased were still in the voters' lists. Unfortunately, some of these dead people have also used them to win which votes are higher in the elections, so I think it is in the most unworthy way to do so, and therefore it would be good for this Law to make it completely impossible to do so. I know the GONG case. Namely, GONG is a random choice, it is about the sources that were held, the presidential elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina. By random election, they pulled out ten people whose names in BiH voters' lists were rounded up as if they had voted. Of those ten people, only one confirmed that she really voted, five said they did not vote until four people died. In order to check it again from the GONG, they called the people they were told had died or had not voted, and then, with insight into the original material, they found out whether or not they had voted. Of the people they called, who were listed to have voted four, five said they did not vote, and only one went to the polls, and it was a random sample. What happened after that? This was reported to the State Election Commission, the DIP said a review of the minutes found that 3 thousand 845 voters were enrolled in the polling post in Capljina, out of which 3 thousand 420 voters voted. I'm talking about examples that shouldn't happen to us in the future, repeat, and never happen to apply the law properly. And assuming that two persons who were marked in the record had voted even though GONG claimed that the dead were so likely wrongly handled by the electoral committee had not in particular affected the final result of the election and the DIP therefore did not recognise this objection. There was also a case of a journalist who voted in Karlovac and Mostar. Antonija Knezevic, I can mention her name and name because it was published in public, which did the reporting, made a statement on the vote in Karlovac and Mostar. So, the journalist is a person with double Croatian and Bosnian Herzegovina citizenship and in the presidential elections as you know, she deliberately voted in Karlovac and Mostar to prove that this is possible. This is also another example that we must avoid in the future, and we are just in need of such laws because of all of us, because of the electoral body, to make sure that the results we receive in the elections are therefore both just and valid and accurate. I hope that the government will come up with its proposal as soon as possible, even if we think that this law is good and that if we accept it, it might help us avoid these negative phenomena that we have had so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74815	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74816	Mr. President. A colleague of Pavlic's. I don't justify a case that's proven. This one case cannot shed a black light on well-implemented under the Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. All that happened in the 11th constituency of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Australia, from the north to the south. Therefore, this one case I repeat does not overshadow well-run elections in the 11th Election Unit, and as far as the journalist is concerned, she was wrong about the Constitution and the law of the Republic of Croatia, when you say what happened to these, what happened to the journalist who did it on purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74817	The HDZ representative club, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74818	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy. In fact, the HDZ Club is not expected to support the draft of this law because there has been no significant improvement in the existing '92 law. But he's exactly the same as the law we've already rejected. In the announced maintenance of the Round Table, we heard Mr Palaric is expected to include the public, civil associations, representatives of national minorities and normal independent experts. It is certain that the Law on Lists of Voters should exclude all possible abuses. In practice we've seen and now we've heard that individual failures, cases are maximum politicized and generalized, we've heard that instead of one proven dead man that flies dead people, it's probably imagination to justify possible failures. In the last local elections, they were well-organised, maximumly updated new data and are no different from the list of voters in the European Union countries. In any event, all interested persons should be given insight into the lists of voters, as regulated by law. But be careful, it's hard to accept the obligation of printing to anyone who wants to. The absurd of that request can definitely be seen in presidential elections, for example. Twenty candidates, but not only of them, writes interested ones, should print lists of 3 and a half million voters, who can then be abused and normally manipulate data. Interesting. And then why did you end the public of the unique birth number when you put out here without control complete human data. The elections in the Republic of Croatia are certainly transparent and democratic and we are proud of that fact. It is normal for many Croatian residents to change their residence due to war events and also to a number of other reasons, but it is regulated by other laws. The list of voters certainly cannot affect the results of the election but there may be an alibi for any failure. In the new Law on Lists of Voters, which will soon be proposed by the Government, the opinion will certainly be agreed, I repeat, citizens' associations and independent experts and national minorities and the OSCE, but I believe all parliamentary parties as well as you, as well as the HNS Proposer, who has contributed with your proposal to the final law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74819	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74820	Thank you. He is not a colleague of Markovanovic, you have found that this law is no better or better than the one in 1992. That's just not true. Some of the solutions that are good in '92. Of course we left. Well, what's in the law should be left well, no matter who made this proposal or the one. Lists of voters should be made available not to anyone who wants it but to those who enter the elections. Otherwise, we're not all in an equal position.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74821	For the IDS club, the respected representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. She's gone. That's where he loses his right to say it. For the SDP club, respected representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74822	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Representative of the Government. My colleagues and fellow MPs. From this proposal, a colleague from the HNS club needs to be immediately concluded and we have one good result. The result is that a new law needs to be passed. This was recognised by a representative of the motionor, representative or State Secretary of the Central State Administration Office. That's really progress after 14 years. But there's something more important, more important. The current law and the current list of voters open and allow doubt in the results of the elections. The biggest damage of such a list of voters on the basis of which we are now making the elections is suspected of manipulating the elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The biggest shame is that. It is a pity for a national being as a whole and is not allowed to remain unresolved and regulated by law. It's not allowed. There's something else I want to say. The responsibility for regularity, the truthfulness of the electoral census, is in the country. On the state's management body. No matter where the election takes place. It cannot be said that the voters list is accurate, true and just only in the Republic of Croatia when elections for the state parliament are reached and regulated outside the state of Croatia. It cannot be said because simply that choice outside the Republic of Croatia can decide who will behave in power and what the results of the election will be. This may be decided by the electoral body, the electoral body voting outside the territory of the Republic of Croatia for state elections. Unsettled, untrue, incorrect list of voters for local elections can be even more dangerous. It could be even more dangerous. It is possible that day-to-day migration voters decide who will behave in the city, municipality or county, day-to-day migration voters. It is therefore very important to establish in the list of voters, i.e. the List of voters, how long the place of residence can be changed. The list of voters must be completed, a certain deadline closed before joining the elections. Of course you can predict voting with certificates, etc. but it can be controlled and must be controlled because the technical, technological situation is such that it can be controlled, that it cannot happen that the same voter is voting in two places. As soon as this can happen, as soon as that possibility is achieved, the legitimacy, legality of the elections and the legitimacy of the chosen ones are at stake. The Republic of Croatia cannot allow that. Why is it important to conclude a list of voters before joining the elections? To enable and ensure the right to see the voter list and to allow the right to appeal, to object to the list of voters. If we look at things that way and I think we should see it that way, then the exemption of the responsibility of the Croatian Parliament which is true for the will of which the Government and the state office corresponds to the right of supervision had the right to demand that this law be passed within a short period of time because we certainly cannot avoid it, the deadline for the elections for parliament, therefore state elections, but it is not possible to predict when elections for some local or regional representative bodies can take place. As a result, no delay or delay of round tables, so we delay our obligation and reduce our responsibility to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia is acceptable three years after the mandate of this authority has already been realised. It is our opinion that the responsibility of the Government and the Parliament is the greatest here because it is a fundamental act that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is responsible for rather than an electoral commission responsible for the very act of choice and regularity. This is the obligation of this parliament to seek its conclusion in the short term that the government comes with its proposal to settle issues so that it cannot leave doubt that the elections are irregular or that the diaspora or representatives of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina decide who will rule in Croatia by law. Such a suspicion is not allowed to last in the Croatian parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74823	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74824	Well, I have to correct an esteemed colleague who said that such a list of voters, the voter list, raises suspicions that the elections in BiH have been manipulated. Unless the colleague wanted to say that their candidate had actually come to the BiH presidency to manipulate him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74825	Second respected representative Zdenka Babic-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74826	Mr. President! My colleague Leko, you are a very good lawyer and I have no doubt and you prove it from day to day that you cannot say it even though you have said one sentence that the list of voters can be manipulated into XI. the electoral unit. It may if the Law of the Republic of Croatia on the selection of representatives or the Law on the List of Voters is not implemented. On the day of the elections, the person who is not listed in the list of voters can only be entered in the list of voters, you do not have the right, I am telling you to correct the incorrect quote. This is not a replica, it's a correction of an incorrect quote because it's a reality. It can be entered in the list of voters with proof and the proof is a Croatian passport or ID card or one photo document. This is prescribed by the law of the Republic of Croatia and members of the electoral committees must take care of it. One reportedly dead, God gave him a rest, which he voted in Bosnia and Herzegovina, you cannot do and throw away the well-organised XI elections. the electoral unit. Why don't you talk about foreign media that always praise how elections for the Croatian parliament are organised in one constituency? I'll get you Sydney, I'll get you from Stuart, I'll get you from Sarajevo. I'm not justifying a mistake that's... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74827	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74828	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I think you and your colleague Babic have hurt the Rules of Procedure. You have violated the Rules of Procedure of Article 214(1) of the third indent and Mrs Babic has injured Article 209. Why? I have stated that the current voter census situation is a possible source of doubt and. ... Please, allow me. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Don't impute to me what I didn't say. And since the president didn't protect me by my rules of procedure and warned you not to correct what I didn't say, I have to use my business opportunity this way and tell you. None of what you've been correcting, I haven't spoken. Nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74829	Representative Zdenka Babić-Petričević correctly corrected your incorrect claim in accordance with the rules of procedure, which you made. I'm not going into it whether it's founded or unfounded, just as I can't get into it if the claim by a representative that corrects your incorrect claim is founded or unfounded. She corrected the incorrect claim and therefore your complaint that it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure and of me and of the MPs was not established. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74830	Mr President, thank you for explaining to me how this right to the "Power Point" presentation is reached, and that colleagues know that they should report in writing 24 hours before the presentation, but of course, distinguished colleague Pero Kovacevic told me that my application of the lips in Mrs Jadranka Blažević's record was full. I therefore thank Mr Peri Kovacevic here and would like to ask that this "Power Point" presentation be allowed in the future. Now about this law very briefly, I'm not going to use those 10 minutes. I support the entire initiative of the Croatian People's Party because the whole of the legislation, as the Parliament's Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system has again concluded, was to be resolved as a system law which would have a generic character from which special laws on voter lists, on the financing of political parties, on campaign financing and so on. Since this has not happened with the experience of more choices behind me, I must admit that voters' lists are a much more significant factor in election success than election programs. Even the amount of money invested in election promotions and slightly less important than the electoral control system because the biggest fraud in a series of elections is especially among the parties and individuals who are 20.50 votes, 0.1%, 0.2% crossing the electoral threshold. That is why I support and will vote in favour of this valuable proposal by the Croatian People's Party so that it can be seen that the role of an independent parliamentary representative is one privileged role in this House of Higher Education, which, for example, Mr Linic, the poor can never understand. So he's surprised, and he thinks if I say something critical about a project, for example, about 154 square miles away, I have to have something against the edge of Racan. Privately and I'll do it again. I have nothing against him. I have even less against the example of fellow Stazic, who was just here, but if he attacks journalist Anita Malenica, I will have to count on him for both professional reasons and democratic beliefs, so if you want the male drive to stand up to that type of violence. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74831	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74832	Well, Mr. President, fellow Members and colleagues, and just now fellow Letica has figured out the essence of the whole problem because if we want to have modern electoral legislation, we have to start from the voters' list, but we also have to make it possible for all those who live abroad to vote, and according to the Constitution, they have the right to be elected because they are Croatian citizens and have the right to choose. And you're also right because last night I watched the "Open" show where you openly protected Mrs. Zeljke Antunović's son and you said he had the right to work wherever he wanted and to appreciate him, three languages speak and thus you were consistent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74833	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74834	Thank you very much, Mr. Pero Kovacevic. So they don't praise each other too much. Indeed, we have a long and long pre-election period ahead of us, and if some kind of issue is created in this House of Commons that should be left behind because partying of an extreme type is almost a kind of sociopathic disorder. So you have situations if you sit down, let's say if you stop by and I'd like to stop by the SDP Club and the HDZ Club to see people's moods and I was, then people think there's an internal enemy showing up and trying to kick you out. And another sentence. Unfortunately, GONG, the OSCE and other institutions are also pro-pravistically oriented. They're against all conservative initiatives. I have been waiting 15 days for the answer of his Excellency Fuentes regarding the anti-zaconite and fraud campaign of the Croatian People's Party. I didn't get any answers, and I have to go to him tomorrow, the day after tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74835	Final Review, Proposer Honored Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74836	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I think we've heard enough reasons, dozens of reasons why it would be necessary to discuss this subject, when we don't have another one still debated in this House, and especially since a broad public discussion on the subject has been announced. The reasons are the importance of the fact that it actually begins with the natural Law on residence and residence with a complete pre-election campaign, a complete procedure of choice. It's not just the day the election comes and circles the number. And this is the election. And this is a piece of choice. So to the fact that it is necessary for these shootings and shootings not to doubt the irregularity of the voter lists to be removed once and for all. If we haven't been able to do that by now because of a huge pile of paper that had to move across and out of there today, electronics allows us to do it, and there's no reason for a case to appear like this reporter who broke the law and who was supposed to be punished, and she wasn't punished. I don't know why she wasn't punished. There are penalties that may look "dragonic" but would be good to understand the seriousness and importance of this topic. The key to things is in timing. If today, these days, this fall, we don't start talking about this topic, but we move it back to next year, we'll lose credibility again. We'll lose credibility by making the reaction public here again at the last minute of some devil's tampering. They're messing with something. They're trying to change something at the last minute. Now it's a year and something before the election to do it. If the Government has a problem and there is no problem with the content we have found, the comments on the content were neither serious nor by the HDZ. That one remark that was about the secrecy of the data is not, in fact, not serious if the matter is looked at essentially. If the Government has a problem with the Proposer so let the first page change, let them take it and let it in the process. Nothing terrible will happen, and we won't object to a single word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-20-0.u74837	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Resume at 15.00 hours. The vote on the debated items of the agenda. SESSION Interrupted at 13.05 p.m. Proposal for a Law on Lists of Voters. In accordance with the proposals made by the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: no proposal for a Law on Lists of Voters proposed by the Club of Representatives of the CNS for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies shall be adopted. Please vote. The result? With 69 votes for, 3 abstentions and 17 against the proposed conclusion.
